Document of
The World Bank
FOR OPFICIAL USE ONLY
3Ai~            P0Report-No. 7143-POL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POLAND
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 3, 1990
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department IV
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distritution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlciil duties. Its contents mny not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ClURRENCY AiND EOUIVAILENIM
Currency Unit - Zloty (Zi)
(Average rates)
1985    1986    127 988   1989    1.2990
(est)  (Jan. 1)
US$1.00       147      175    265      430   1400    9000
HnfiG AND MAUEbS
Metric System
BH           - Bank Handlowy
I             ~~~~BSD      - Banking Supervision Department
CMEA         - Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EDB         - Export Development Bank
FTO          - Foreign Trade Organization
LIBOR       - London Interbank Offered Rate
MTBE         - Methyl tertiobutyl ether
mtpy         - Thousand tons per year
MZIRP        - Mazowian Refinery and Petrochemical Works at Ploc':
NBP          - National Bank of Poland
PAID        - Project Appraisal & Implementation Division
PPF         - Project Preparation Facility
ROD          - Foreign Exchange Retention Account
tpy         - Tons per year
,OMAD - FlSCAL WEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
POLN
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DRELMENT PROSECM
Table of- Ca-otent
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                      ..                         iv
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                        1
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR.                                               2
A. The Economic Environment.                                       2
B.  Structure and Performance of the Industrial Sector .           3
C.  Industrial Policies and Export Incentives .          .         7
1. Industrial Polic- Framework.                              7
2. Export Incentives .10
D.  Impact of Industrial Environment on Project Design            11
E.  Bank Strategy for Assistance to Industry .11
._7. FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENTS .12
A.  Current Status of the Financial Sector .12
1. Transformation of the Banking System .12
2. Credit Policies .13
3. Interest Rate Policies .14
B. The Institutional Framework .14
1. The National Bank of Poland .14
2. Commercial Banks Formed from the
NBP Branch Network .15
3. The Previous Specialized Banks .17
4. Other New Banks .18
5. The Banking Supervision Department .19
C.  Industrial Investment Financing .       . ..................  19
1. Domestic Credit Financing .19
2. Foreign Credit Financing .20
D.  Bank Strategy for Assistance to the Financial Sector          20
IV. THE PROJECT .21
A. Project Objectives and Scope .21
B.  Financing for Export-oriented Investments  .        .22
1. Subproject Selection Criteria .22
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Messrs./Mmes. Borin, Cordet-Dupouy, Ewing, Glenshaw, Reyes-Vidal, Soncini and
Sumi which visited Poland from Iovember 23 to December 12, 1987, and of a post
appraisal mission which updated the appraisal in September 1989.
This document has a r:stricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii -
Table of Contents (continued)
2. The Pre-identified Subprojects ....            ............   22
3. Additional Subprojects ........................               25
C.  The Technical Assistance Component ..................               25
1. Strengthening the Banking Sector ....           ..........   26
2. Support for Industrial Restructuring ....          ......     27
3. Support for Private Sector Development .... ....             28
D. Project Cost and Financing                    . . .    29
E.  Env'.ronmental Impact ......         .........................      31
F.  Financial Projections ......          ........................      32
V.  THE FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES ...........................                 34
A.  Introduction .......................................                34
B.  The Bank Handlowy ..................................                34
C.  The Export Development Bank ........................                36
D.  Eligibility Criteria for Participating Banks    .......             37
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ON-LENDING ARRANGEMENTS   .....               39
A.  Project Organization and Implementation ............                39
1. National Bank of Poland .......................              39
2. The Participating Banks .......................              40
3. The Borrowing Enterprises .....           ................   40
4. Arrangements for Technical Assistance .... .....             41
E.  On-lending Arrangements ............ .. ..............              41
C. Procurement               ..                     ............  43
D.  Allocation of Bank Loan and Disbursements ..........                45
E.  Auditing and Reporting Requirements ........ ........               46
VII.  BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT ................................                 46
A.  Economic Benefits ..................................                47
B.  Foreign Exchange Impact ............................                47
C.  Environmental Impact ...............................               48
D.  Institutional Benefits .............................               48
E.  Other Benefits .....................................               49
F.  Risks ...........         ...................................      49
VIII.  AGREEMENTS AND REOMHNATION ..........................                    50
A.  Agreements .........................................                50
B.  Recommendation .....................................                51



X iii 
Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES (by Chanter Reference
1     Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
4-1   Chemitex-Wistom High Wet Modulus Fiber and Biaxially-
Oriented Polypropylene Subprojects
4-2   Plock Polypropylene, MTBE, and Vacuum
Tower Subprojects
4-3   Pulawy Melamine, Caprolactam and Urea Subprojects
4-4   Vieruszow Particleboard Plant Modernization Subproject
4-5   Zielona Gora Furniture Subproject
4-6   Avia Machine Tools Plant Subproject
4-7   Rafamet Machine Tools Plant Modernization Subproject
4-8   Technical Assistance to Strengthen the Participating
Banks' Capabilities
4-9 Terms of Reference for a Bank Supervision Advisor
4-10 Terms of Reference for the Components Industries Study
4-11 Terms of Reference for the Packaging Industry Study
4-12 Terms of Reference for the Steel Industry Study
4-13 Targeted Program of Assistance to Ailing
and Financially Distressed Enterprises
4-14 Terms of Reference for Assistance to the
Development of Small Scale Enterprises
4-15 Outline of a Program of Support for the Transformation
and Privatization of State Enterprises
5 1   Bank Handlowy (BH)
5-2   Export Development Bank (EDB)
5-3   Organization and Performance of Commercial Banks
5-4   Scope of Special Auditing for Participating Banks
6-1   National Bank of Poland (NBP)
6-2   Operating Policies and Procedures for Financing Investments and
Technical Assistance under the Project
6-3   Disbursement Profile
M&J!P: IBRD 20571R



POIAND
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJEC1
Loan and project S_mar
Borrower:          National Bank of Poland (NBP).
Guarantor:         Republic of Poland.
Beneficiaries:    Exporting industrial enterprises, selected commercial banks
and Government agencies.
Amount:            US$260.0 million equivalent.
Terms:             17 years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
On-lending         Sublcans to final beneficiaries will be denominated in US
Terms:             dollars and interest will be at prevailing market rates.
NBP will bear the foreign exchange risk between the US
dollar and the Bank's currency pool. The interest rate
charged by NBP to the participating banks will be
-.stablished as a floating rate linked to the London
Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) for dollar deposits and will
include a margin for NBP. This margin is set at 1.75X for
the January 1-June 30, 1990 period. Subloans will be for a
maximum of 10 years, including a maximum grace period of
three years.
Proiect            The main objectives of the proposed project are to
Obiectives:        contribute to:  (i) improving the convertible currency trade
balance of Poland by increasing the volume, quality and
value-added of industrial exports to convertible currency
markets; (ii) improving the banking system, in particular by
providing training in modern banking practice;
(iii) preparing restructuring programs and identifying
restructuring needs in industry; and (iv) supporting the
development of the private sector. These objectives support
the country's efforts to rapidly enhance creditworthiness by
improving the balance of payments and to launch effective
industrial restructuring programs and private sector
development initiatives in line with the ongoing reforms.
Project            The project comprises two components:
DLescrigtion:
(i)    Investmens in state-owned and private exoortine industrial.
enterprises for which Bank funds would be channeled through
selected participating banks, based on agreed eligibility
criteria. A number of qualifying investments have alre1aad
been propgsd in enterprises mainly in the chemical,
engineering and wood-based industries, and seven subprojects



have alreadv been appraised.   Further investments in state
or private sector enterprises will be selected and appraised
by the participating banks with the assistance of NBP and/or
the Bank; and
(ii)    Technical assistance on three broad fronts aimed at:
(a) strengthening the banking system, by enhancing the
capabilities of banks and by helping ongoing efforts to
improve banking supervision; (b) supporting the
restructuring of industry with studies of subsectoral
restructuring strategies, and support for the introduction
of international accounting standards and auditing
practices; and (c) supporting measures to stimulate the
rapid development of the private sector through both the
development of new private enterprises and the privatization
of existing public sector companies. The Government has
obtained a PPF advance which is being used to finance some
of these technical assistance components.
Benefits-&        The project will assist exporting enterprises to rapidly
Risks:             implement plant improvement and debottlenecking investments
aimed at increasing the quantity and quality of industrial
exports to convertible currency markets. It will also
strengthen: (i) the banking system and supervision of banks;
(ii) institutional capabilities for developing enterprise
assistance, restructuring and privatization programs; and
(iii) the infrastructure needed to support private sector
development. In about half of the pre-identified
subprojects, the proposed investments will lead to a
measurable reduction in polluting discharges.
Project risks include export market risks, problems arising
from the limited experience of the participating banks in
adequately appraising subprojects, and delays in project
implementation particularly due to local procurement
difficulties. To minimize these potential risks, careful
marketing analyses have been conducted; funds and training
to strengthen project appraisal and supervision capacities
of participating banks are being included in the proposed
project; special procurement assistance has already been
provided during project preparation; and the proposed
implementation arrangements include mechanisms to
expeditiously resolve problems with local procurement.
There are no special environmental risks associated with the
proposed investments.
In the short term, the process of implementing the
adjustment and stabilization program may cause unanticipated
delays in project implementation due to possible
uncertainties associated with the transition phase. To
safeguard against this risk, pre-identiAed beneficiary



- vi -
enterprises have been carefully selected to include only
those which operate satisfactorily under current conditions
and which can be expected to remain viable during the course
of the reform. The project includes stringent criteria for
financial and economic rates of return as well as foreign
exchange pay-back to be met by ill investments to be
financed. In the longer term, a risk that could adversely
affect the indirect benefits of the project stems from
delays in the implementation of the institutional and
systemic reforms. The Bank's on-going economic dialogue
will assist the Government in identifying and overcoming
weaknesses in reform implementation. In addition,
procurement has been initiated for the pre-identified
projects, for which retroactive financing of up to US$25
million is proposed.
Estimated Costs:                                  Local      Foreign       Total
--------(US$ million)--------
Pre-identified Investments       109        151          260
Other Investments                 64        110          174
Technical Assistance               6         15           21
Total                            179        276          455
Financing Plan:
IBRD Loan                         -         260          260
Commercial Banks Loans            69          1           70
Enterprise Funds                 110         15          125
Total                                       276          455
Estimated
Disbursements: A/ Bank FY          1990    1991    1929 1293    1924    1995
---------------- US$ million ---------------
Annual            41       59      74      52       25       9
Cumulative        41      100     174     226      251     260
A/    Assumes Board approval by January 1990, retroactive
financing of US$25 million, and refinancing of a
US$1.5 million PPF.
Economic Rate
of Return         Weighted average of 32X for seven pre-identified investments
utilizing 541 of loan proceeds and a minimum of 181 for
additional investments.
IBRD 20571R



INDUMMIAL EXPOItr DEWlD-OPMEN  RJC
L INIWODUCFION
1.01        Since the early 1980s, Poland has faced a severe economic crisis,
which has also been reflected in a major debt problem in convertible currency.
In attempting to mitigate this situation, the Polish authorities are
establishing an adjustment and scabilization program aimed at moving towards a
market economy while at the same time resuming sustainable growth and
restoring creditworthiness. This program is expected to provide the policy
environment necessary to induce industrial restructuring and export
development in the medium term. In the short term, the Government is
according the highest priority to actions to stabilize the economy, alleviate
the critical constrainits to industrial exports and to promote efficient
restructuring of industrial enterprises. The Government has sought Bank
assistance to implement its recovery program and has rr iested Bank support
and financing through this proposed first industrial px-ject to help restore
and increase industrial exports while at the same time initiating an effective
program of industrial restructuring with specific support to the private
sector.
1.02        Industry is the leading sectoc of the Polish economy and
contributes 23X of employment, 44X of GNP and 74Z of exports. The proposed
project focuses on industry and supports the country's efforts to enhance
rapidly its creditworthiness by improving industrial exports, as well as to
launch needed effective industrial restructuring programs in parallel with the
reforms. In this context, the project is directed at: (i) improving the
convertible currency trade balance of Poland by increasing the volume, the
quality and value-added of industrial exports to convertible currency markets;
(ii) improving the institutional, financial and operational capabilities of
selected banks; (iii) preparing restructuring programs and identifying
restructuring needs in industry; and (iv) supporting the changes which
increasingly emphasize the role of the private sector in future industrial
development.
1.03        The proposed Bank loan of US$260 million equivalent to the
National Bank of Poland (NBP) would meet a major part of the foreign exchange
needs of the project. US$245 million equivalent has been allocated for
investments irn industrial enterprises, of which US$141 million will be
utilized in seven pre-identified subprojects which have already been appraised
with Bank assistance. US$15 million equivalent has been allocated to support
technical assistance, but bilateral funds are also being sought for this
purpose. To the extent that suitable bilateral funding is identified, Bank
funds will be reallocated to investments. The Bank loan would cover about 571
of total financing requirements: the remaining financing will be provided by
NBP, local commercial banks, and the participating enterprises.



1.04        The proposed project was developed and appraised during missions
in March/April, September, and November/December 1987, which comprised staff
of the Industry and Energy Divisions of both the Europe and Technical
Departments of EMENA as well as consultants. The appraisal was updated
following a post-appraisal mission in September 1989. A number of documents
concerning the sector and the project are listed in Annex 1 and are available
in the Project File.
EL THlE IY4DUS'IAL SECT-OR
A. 7%e                       1/oent
2.01        After a period of rapid expansion during most of the 1970s, Poland
entered the 1980s with a declining level of national output, a very difficult
social situation, and an unsustainable balance of payments deficit with the
convertible currency areas. Domestic output reached a peak in 1978, after
which the economy regressed badly through 1982, by which time domestic output
amounted to only about three quarters of the 1978 level. To overcome these
severe economic problems, in the early 1980s the Government launched a process
of economic reforms which proved difficult to implement. The increased
difficulties have led since early 1989 to political reform, which in turn will
enable far reaching changes towards a market economy.
2.02        The economic reform which began in 1982 had as its objective the
decentralization of economic planning with an increased role for market
mechanisms. However, the introduction of the reform at a time of political
and social crisis inhibited the central authorities from fully pursuing many
of the proposed measures. In consequence, the central authorities continued
for most of the 1980s to exercise a major role in pricing and allocation of
resources at the microeconomic level. By mid-1986, the Government sought to
reinvigorate the reform process by launching a "second stage". The core of
this reform focussed on implementing important relative price realignments,
including price increases ranging between 551 and 2001 for basic products such
as coal, gas and electricity. However, the Government was not able to obtain
the endorsement for the rapid implementation of the reform sought at the end
of 1987 and early 1988. It was only in the second half of 1988, mainly as a
result of the worsening economic situation, that new important policy measures
aiming at liberalizing the economy were adopted. In addition, new efforts to
achieve social consensus were sought, which culminated in the Round Table
discussions and far reaching agreements for political as well as economic
reforms.
2.03        Recovery since 1982 has been very slow; GDP in 1988 was still
about 1 percentage point short of the level attained ten years ago, and GDP
per capita was about 6 percent less. While internal balances have improved,
with rationing eliminated for most consumer goods and the scope of central
allocation of materials progressively reduced, shortages persist and the price
structure is still distorted.
1/    An updated Country Brief was recently distributed to the Board as part
of regular updating procedures.



^ 3 -
2.04        Poland continues to face serious and escalating economic
problems. Inflation during 1989 is expected to be in the 300X range (compared
with about 70X in 1988 and 252 in 1987), mostly as a result of lax monetary
and fiscal policies adopted jointly with the 1988 price realignment program.
Poland also has a serious problem in managing its external debt, and in
restoring the country's creditworthiness.
2.05        Following the installation of a new Government in September 1989,
a new program of adjustment and stabilization has been prepared and is
currently under conaideration by the Parliament. The program, which has
recently been agreed with the IMF, would impose stringent financial and
monetary policies, restructure and privatize a significant proportion of
existing state enterprises, transform the Polish economy into a market economy
and establish a program to normalize relations with Poland's current
creditors.
B. Strctuue  d Peomance of the Indusial S
2.06        The industrial sector 2,/ has been the leading sector of the
economy since 1960. Currently, it contributes about 442 of Poland's net
material product and employs 232 of the country's labor force. Socialized
industrial enterprises, i.e. stat.-owned enterprises and cooperatives, produce
almost 941 of industrial net production and employ a.out 902 of the industrial
work force. Private industry, although small, has shown remarkable dynamism
and, since the early 1980s, has consistently grown more rapidly than
socialized industry. Presently, private industrial activity accounts for
about 51 of industrial net production, mostly in handicrafts, engineering and
light industries. Many private industrial enterprises are owned by non-
residents (the so-called "Polonia" firms). Recent further deregulation of the
private sector (January 1989) has accelerated its development and many new
enterprises have been created during the past six months.
2.07        Electro-engineering industries represent about 40X of both
manufacturing value added and manufacturing employment, followed by food
processing and light industries, together representing about one third of
value added and employment. 'hile the electro-engineering industries produce
a wide range of manufactured goods, their predominant products are transport
equipment and engineering products (machinery and equipment). The chemical
2/   The Polish classification of industry differs from the ISIC as it
includes fuel and power (coal, coke, crude petroleum, petroleum
refining, natural gas, electric and thermal power, etc.) within the
industrial sector. To assess the performance of Polish industry
according to the more usual classification, these activities have been
excluded from the analyses wherever possiM1-



industry has almost doubled its share of value added from about 5.0X in 1960
to 9.4X in 1985, mainly as a result of the growth of basic chemicals such as
sulphur, and the expansion of the production of fertilizers, petrochemicals,
plastics, pesticides and pharmaceuticals. The mineral and wood-based
industries together share about 10 of manufacturing value added and about 12%
of employment. The remainder of industrial production is provided by a
diverse group of industries.
2.08        Polish industry has been characterized by a high degree of
concentration and little competition. Recently, however, laws aimed at
introducing some *legree of competition have been passed, covering the creation
of new enterprises, anti-monopoly regulation, joint ventures between state
enterprises and private investors, direct foreign investments, and provisions
for establishing i common operating framework for both state and private
sector enterprises. In addition, very recently, a move towards privatization
of certain enterprises has been initiated with such activities as conversions
into joint-stock companies, leasing to the private sector, the sale of assets,
etc. These activities are expected to intensify over the coming year.
2.09        The balance of payments and social crises of the late 1970s ani
early 1980s resulted in a decline in manufacturing output of about 14% between
1978 and 1982. Since 1982, the manufacturing sector, along with the rest of
the economy, has started to recuperate although at a slow rate due largely to
a severe shortage of foreign exchange. Industrial output grew by 3.2% in 1987
and a somewhat more healthy 5.41 in 1988, but is expected to slow down in
1989.
2.10        over the past ten years, industrial goods have consistently
maintained a predominant share of exports, accounting for about three-quarters
of the total. Industrial exports are highly concentrated in a few industries,
with electro-engineering, chemicals and processed food products accounting for
nearly 601 of the total. All exports dropped sharply in the early 1980s. In
1988, industrial exports were still lower than their peak 1981 level.
Nevertheless, exports to convertible currency markets have recovered rapidly
in real terms since 1986, encouraged by incentives and an active exchange rate
policy. In constant prices, industrial exports (excluding fuel and power) to
non-socialist countries grew by about 91 in 1986, and 111 in both 1987 and
1988. Despite these successes, Poland's efforts to recapture convertible
currency markets lost in 1982 have been constrained by the suspension of
licensing agreements with western partners, the incapacity of Polish exporters
to ensure timely and regular delivery and a decline in product quality which
results (at least in part) from the necessity to use Polish rather than
imported inputs and raw materials.  In 1987, exports to the non-socialist
countries surpassed exports to the socialist countries for the first time
since 1981.
2.11        Efficiency levels in industry are highly variable across and
within subsectors. According to the results of a Bank study of Polish



industrial competitiveness i/, 30X of industrial output is clearly competitive
in international terms under current conditions (Table 2.1). These cover a
wide range of activities including textiles, engineering, precision
instruments and metal products. Their performance as well as that of the
electro-engineering, chemical and light industries, suggests that manufacture
of industrial goods are competitive despite the severe distortions and
bottlenecks within the economy. Activities in the heavy and more traditional
industries (ferrous metallurgy, transport equipment) and some parts of the
food processing industry stand out as lacking competitiveness.
TgbLe 2.1: POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPNENT PRCWECT
TRADE AND COIPETITIVENESS OF INDUSTRIAL PRC0UCTS, 1966
International
Exr,orts         Imnorts        Stooe of Trad ,t of   b
corniertibie     cormertibte       ConWertibLe  Short-  Long-
Industry        Total   Currency   Total   Currency   Total   Currency    run   run
... .. . ....... (billion ziLoty) .
Metallurgy       161      87      159      66        0.6    14.1      1.2   4.0
ELectro-engineering  880  226     696      245      11.6    (4.0)     0.6   1.3
Chemicals        220     108      270      180     (10.3)   (25.3)    0.4   1.3
Hinerals          22       14      28      10      (12.8)    16.9     0.5   1.1
Wood & Paper      48      39       34      12       16.9    53.6      0.7   1.4
Light Industry   136      72      116      45       7.9    23.4       0.6   1.0
Food Industry    156      131     149      99       2.3    14.0      (1.5)  (3.4)
Other Industry    11       5       26      10      (42.8)   (33.7)
Total Industry   1,632  681    1,478     666       0.7     9.7       0.6   1.5
a1    (Exports-lmports)/(Exportslmports)
Domestic Resource Cost ratio, which estimates the cost of the domestic factors employed in order to
produce net output with one unit of foreign exchange.
Sources:    Rocznik Statystyczny, 1987, and Sank estimates.
2.12        Improvements to industrial efficiency and related expansion of
efficient exports are hampered by a number of constraints which fall into
three broad categories: (i) the industrial environment in which enterprises
operate; (ii) past investment practices; and (iii) internal strategy and
management of enterprises.  These issues are summarized below and are being
discussed with the Government through on-going sector work.
2.13        The salient characteristics of the industrial environment that
have constrained industrial performance include systemic distortions such as
in pricing, subsidies, taxation and wage policies. These distortions have
limited the incentives for improving enterprise performance and constrained
the mobility of resources from uneconomic to economic activities, thus
maintaining existing shortages and impeding efficient growth. Second,
industrialization efforts have favored large state-owned enterDriseS,
neglected the development of small and medium-size enterprises and
discriminated against the private sector.  This bias has prevented the
,i/   Konovalov, V.  "Poland - Competitiveness of Industrial Activities".
Report of the World Bank. November, 1988.



development of a deeper and more flexible industrial structure, a more
dependable supply of spare parts and intermediate goods, and a more
competitive production environment. Furthermore, shortages of intermediate
products have encouraged vertical integration, often inefficient, of
production and auxiliary services in existing enterprises. Third, central
allocation of materials such as energy (coal and electricity), inputs for
production or for the physical construction of new facilities, introduced
substantial delays in deliveries of goods and civil works, which were
intensified by complex planning and monitoring systems existing both at the
central and at the local levels. Fourth, until recently the lack of autonomy
at the enterprise level, due to the administrative authority exercised !-
branch ministries (so called "founding organs"), caused hesitancy, dela ed
decision making and led to other inefficiencies. The increased autonomy of
enterprises over the last two years .8 not brought about much of the expected
improvement, but has highlighted the problems associated with unclear
ownership of state-owned enterprises. Finally, lack of foreign exchange has
hampered modernization and significant efficiency improvement. Industry needs
substantial foreign exchange to fund its investment needs, but cannot generate
the necessary exports with the current plant and equipment. Furthermore, with
constraints on the imports of components and spare parts, the quality and
delivery time of local inputs are hampering exports.
2.14        Past investment practices have compounded the problems created by
the industrial environment. In particular, a lack of snecialization has
reduced technical efficiency and constrained competitiveness. Moreover,
over-investment in plant and in equipment in the 1970s was encouraged by
systems rewarding the attainment of output rather than effic iency. This
induced an extensive pattern of growth with limited attention to productivity
improvements. Capacity additions responded to output expansions required by
central authorities, rather than to markets and the competitive environment.
The resulting production structure lacks the necessary flexibility to adapt
quickly to new markets or production requirements. Old and obsolete
technology is also widespread in most of the industrial sector and new
investments have often been based on similar technology. The level of
automation is low, with an adverse impact on labor-intensity and product
quality. Polish engineers, designers, and managers are well aware of modern
technology, but the existing rigidities and constraints inhibit them from
fullf exploiting their skills and knowledge.  The obsolescence of technology
also affects the design and the quality of products and production costs,
which are a major constraint to efficient exports. Furthermore, the lack of
quality control has deepened the impediments to export. Out-of-date
technology, especially in the chemical, petrochemical and fertilizer
subsectors, has contributed heavily to environmental degradation though the
emission of air and liquid pollutants and the disposal of solid wastes at
levels well beyond those typically accepted in industrialized countries.
2.15        State-owned enterprise management behavior has also constituted a
barrier to productivity improvements and export growth. Lack of strategic
nlanning and control systems adversely affect investment decisions, costs of
production, and selection of product mix, as well as marketing strategy.
Long-term planning and attention to efficiency and productivity improvements



have been hindered by management concerns with daily problems and requests
from the central administration. These problems have been exacerbated by
inadequate linkages between planning autonomy and accountability. Poor
financial management practices result also from the lack of accountability of
management, the dilution of top management attention, and the absence of
market signals. While most enterprises have good accounting records of past
performance and near-term projections, they have no or poor cost accounting or
management tools. Analysis is weak and results in poor corporate financial
goals and inefficient financial planning. Furthermore, long-term funds have
been primarily provided by the government and were largely outside the control
of enterprise management. Finally, in the u.hsence of a real owner to require
financial return and monitor the performance of the state-owned enterprises,
the needed financial discipline remains difficult to enforce. Weaknesses in
marketing, both for domestic and international sales, have compounded these
problems and have inhibited enterprise managers from making the best use of
their plants and export opportunities. The virtual absence of export
marketing information and expertise, in which the foreign trade organizations
(FTOs) have had exclusive rights until recently, is a common feature across
industry. In addition, the persistent shortages of inputs have discouraged
plant managers' interest in improving product quality, in satisfying customer
requirements in a timely manner, in producing more efficiently at lower costs
and in developing exports.
C. Indoshial Policies and Expot Incenti
1. Industrial Policy Framework
2.16        Although the constraints described above persist, industrial
policy is being redirected towards their alleviation. Three main elements
determine the industrial policy framework within which Polish industrial
enterprises operate. The first is the body of legislation passed in the early
years of economic reform (i.e., 1981-1982), which provided for a fundamental
change in the legal status of the state-owned enterprises and in their
operational objectives. State-owned enterprises--with the exception of those
in sensitive sectors such as coal--were given greater autonomy and were
supposed to have greater financial discipline, including the possibility of
bankruptcy, while the role of the central administration and of the central
plan was reduced. The streamlining of branch ministries and the creation of a
single Ministry of Industry (October 1987) reduced the central control and
gave increased autonomy to enterprise management.
2.17        The second element comprises a radical set of new legislation
passed early in 1989 which; includes three fundamental laws for industry
development: (i) the Law on Undertaking Economic Activity, which placed the
private sector and the state sector on equal legal footing, abolished (for the
first time since 1947) all limits on private sector employment, and allowed
private sector activity in practically all areas; (ii) the Law on Foreign
Investments, which establishes a coherent and favorable framework for direct
foreign investments; and (iii) the Law on Foreign Exchange, which allows
unrestricted sales and purchases of foreign exchange between enterprises (in



-8 -
the past, enterprises could sell excess foreign exchange only to their direct
suppliers).
2.18        The third element comprises a vast set of policy measures, aimed
at providing a better financial management framework for enterprises.  The
implementation of these policies, although begun in 1982, has been accelerated
since 1986 and has been focused on improvements in areas such as the exchange
rate, prices, subsidies, wages, taxes, and the distribution system affecting
basic inputs.
2.19        Major changes have been introduced since 1982 in foreign exchange
noligy, when the earlier system of numerous rates was replaced by a unified
exchange rate applicable to virtually all transactions with non-CMEA
countries. Subsequently, the exchange rate for convertible currency has been
adjusted periodically on the basis of changes in a weighted basket of
convertible currencies, and with a view to securing the profitability of at
least 80X of convertible currency exports i/. The zloty has been devalued
sharply in the past two years (20X in real terms in 1988), thereby improving
the competitiveness of exports and contributing to the opening up of the
economy. However until recently the zloty continued to be overvalued as
indicated by the parallel market rate, which ranged from 4 to 9 times the
official rate. In 1989, the introduction of a series of foreign exchange
auctions introduced market elements for determining the foreign exchange rate
level, but also led to perverse market fragmentation. In the most recent
development, on January 1, 1990 the Government devalued the zloty by 381 and
introduced a unified exchange rate.
2.20        Prior to the 1982 reform, most prices were centrally determined
and were changed infrequently. The intention of the reform was to take a
first step in improving the price system by raising prices toward
market-clearing levels and to establish a price determination mechanism that
would be more responsive to market forces. It replaced the previous system of
price determination with three categories of prices:  administrative,
regulated, and contract prices. The use of regulated prices was eliminated in
1988. Administrative prices were set by the State in a manner akin to that
which existed for most products before 1982; and contract prices were, in
principle, set freely in the market, although subject to ceilings set by the
Ministry of Finance. The proportion of non-agricultural production covered by
contract prices increased to about two thirds, but formal and informal
ceilings remained a problem. In addition, administrative prices continued to
apply to around one third of production, and some enterprises continued to
rely on subsidies, in areas where the Government controlled prices. The
linkage of domestic prices to international prices of raw materials and
inputs--such as coal, iron and steel products--remained incomplete, despite
several price realignments. However the new Government announced reforms on
January 1, 1990, which eliminated price controls on virtually all items,
except for a few selected commodities and services.
i/    For this calculation, profitability is considered to be achieved when
for a particular item, the ratio of its export price to its domestic
price is equal to or greater than unity.



-9-
2.21        In an effort to improve the long-standing weaknesses of the link
between wages and productivity, both within and between enterprises, greater
autonomy has steadily been given to enterprises to design their own wage
structure. The first phase, introduced in 1982, gave enterprises the
possibility to establish their own basic wage scale within the bounds both of
the minimum and maximum wage rates and of the stipulated number of job
classifications set by the administration, and in accordance with the
centrally established principles for job grading. Concurrently, the
authorities introduced a steeply progressive levy on wage increases, if they
exceeded a certain threshold, or if they were not matched by increases in
productivity. This situation, coupled with the tendency for enterprises to
hoard labor and with the perceived sanction on laying-off labor, has limited
the capability of the enterprises to link remuneration more closely to
performance. In early 1989, in an attempt to limit the extremely high
"compensatory" wage demands which followed in the wake of increasing prices,
an indexation formula of 80% wage adjustment for past price increases was
adopted.
2.22        Prior to 1982, virtually all basic inputs were centrally
allocated. Following the introduction of reforms in 1982, the extent of
formal central allocation of inputs has progressively been reduced, dropping
from 70X of all inputs in 1982, to 35% and 22%, respectively, in 1987 and
1988. Currently, centrally allocated inputs are limited to only few essential
items such as coal, coke , crude oils, and paper pulp. Priorities outlined in
the annual plans, in principle, guaranteed the required supply of basic
materials covered by the obligatory distribution system. The highest priority
was production under government contracts and operational programs. These
were arrangements under which the central authorities either instruct
enterprises (operational prc0zams) or invite them to submit bids (government
contracts) to carry out certain tasks while ensuring the necessary access to
inputs and foreign exchange. The number of operational programs has been
reduced drastically, and the government contracts were reduced from 144 in
1988 to 101 in 1989. The new Government has stated its intentions gradually
to eliminate both mechanisms.
2.23        The success of these measures to date has been mixed.  Some of the
legislation on financing of state enterprises enacted in January 1989, which
was intended to clarify ownership ar,d bring more financial discipline, has
merely added to the uncertainty facing enterprise managers. While the
adjustment and stabilization programs under preparation will eliminate most
remaining controls and distortions, in the absence of a "real" owner to give
strategic guidance, require a financial return and monitor the performance of
the enterprise, the problems of a lack of accountability will persist. In
order to overcome these problems, the Government intends to launch a program
of privatization and to impose hard budget constraints on those enterprises
which remain in the state sector.



10 -
2. Export Incentives
2.24        Since the beginning of the economic reform in the early 1980s, the
Government has been strongly committed to improving export performance to all
markets. Accordingly, export incentives were introduced, mostly through a
more active exchange rate policy (para 2.19), and the rights of exporting
enterprises to retain foreign exchange earnings under a foreign exchange
retention account (ROD) scheme. These policies have been supplemented by the
provision of various other incentives to exporters, including an export price
equalization fund 5/, income tax relief, credit subsidies, and drawback of
import duties and turnover taxes. Since early 1986, emphasis has been given
to the expansion of exports to convertible currency areas. Accordingly,
export incentives have been adjusted to provide additional benefits for
exports to these areas.
2.25        Currently, the main supplements to the exchange rate policy are
the foreign exchange retention account (ROD) and the income tax relief
schemes. The ROD scheme has been reviewed and streamlined substantially in
the past two years, aiming at enhancing its effectiveness and at reducing the
administrative discretion involved in the system. Since January 1989, the
multiplicity of previous rates (established individually for each enterprise)
were reduced to only five rates--established on a product by product basis--
ranging from 50X to 101 of export earnings. As a result, the average
retention rate for the manufacturing sector as a whole increased from about
181 in 1986 to about 301, and the average utilization of these resources,
which during 1985-86, accounted for about 251 of total convertible currency
imports is estimated to have increased to about 331 in 1989. Also, funds held
in the i 3D accounts can be offered for sale by exporting enterprises at
auctions arranged by the Export Development Bank, or traded directly among
enterprises.
2.26        Income tax relief as an export incentive has also been
streamlined. The extent of tax reduction is based on the absolute value of
exports, the type and destination (convertible and non-convertible currency
market), and the processing level of the exported product. Export-related
relief from income taxes has remained at about the same level as in 1987--
ranging from 12-141 of export value--despite the Government's intention to
scale them back and to rely more on the exchange rate to stimulate exports.
2.27        Exporters are also given priority access to bank credits at
preferential interest rates. Currently, interest rates on bank credit for
export-oriented investments and for working capital amount to 331 plus a 91
spread allowed to intermediary banks. Other recent measures intended to
l/   Under the Export Price Equalization Fund, firms exporting products which
also traded internally at administrative prices (and on a case-by-case
basis for products traded internally at contract prices) were subsidized
or taxed, depending on whether the difference between the foreign market
price (expressed in zlotys) and the domestic price was negative or
positive. Because this Fund effectively taxed profitable exporters and
subsidized unprofitable exporters, it has been dismantled.



- 11 -
promote exports include those aimed at: (i) exposing domestic producers
directly to international price signals, rather than obscuring them with price
equalization measures (para 2.24) or through trading intermediaries; (ii)
enhancing competition among foreign trade organizations, and facilitating the
issuance of export licenses for producing enterprises; and (iii) attracting
foreign capital and technology through incentives provided by the new law on
foreign investments and joint ventures, which was enacted in January 1989.
D.  gM   of laduara KnvIrOn     -   ect own
2.28        Serious inefficiencies persist within the system.  The second
stage of the reform program sought to address the basic environmental and
systemic issues, and should have induced improved performance in industrial
production and exports. However, the desired supply response has lagged, due
to the rigidities of the industrial structure and difficulties in
implementation. New stabilization and liberalization efforts, supported by
political change, are still being introduced. Because of the uncertainties
associated with these rapidly changing conditions, the proposed Bank project
has been designed to proceed largely in parallel with, rather than to depend
on, the reform process. The pre-identified subprojects are thus concentrated
in subsectors and on enterprises which are already internationally
competitive. Subproject selection criteria (para 4.03) will ensure that
future subprojects also meet the test of international competitiveness.
E. Euk SalrthOrfor Asktgr  tonj
2.29        The Bank's overall strategy in Poland is to support the long-term
objectives of the Polish authorities--namely, to improve the efficiency and
productivity of the economy, to promote growth, to improve socio-economic
conditions and to implement reforms towards a market economy. This strategy
has direct application to the industrial sector.  In the short term, Bank
involvement also focuses on helping to improve the balance of payments and
enhancing the country's creditworthiness. The major thrust of the proposed
project is to assist this short-term objective by providing finance which is
not adequately available elsewhere (para 3.24), in order to effect a quick
increase in the level of production and of exports to convertible currency
markets.
2.30        The project design also includes a number of features which can be
expected to support the Bank's longer-term strategy for assistance to industry
in Poland.  First, the process of project preparation and appraisal has
already strengthened the dialogue on institutional issues aimed at improving
the design and implementation of the reform program. This strengthening will
continue as project implementation proceeds. Second, the introduction of Bank
techniques of project evaluation and appraisal, and the dissemination of these
techniques through important parts of the banking system should lead to rapid
improvements to the process of evaluating investment projects in Poland.
Third, the provision of additional technical assistance to areas of particular
weakness will help to ensure that performance in these areas does not hinder
the economic benefits expected from reform. Fourth, the proposed program of
studies and diagnoses at the enterprise and subsector levels will be an



- 12 -
important first step in initiating the essential process of restructuring the
industrial sector on the basis of proper strategic and economic principles.
Finally, the eligibility of the private sector to seek financing under the
project, and technical assistance to development agencies for fostering new
private sector ventures as well as privatization efforts, will stimulate the
development of private sector industry.
mL EIANL SECIORMDV                    NlS
A. Current Status of Me Mnandd Secj,,
3O01        Fundamental changes have been introduced in the financial sector,
most of them since 1986. The most significant changes have been implemented
as a result of revised legislation (including a new Banking Law) passed in
January 1989, which aims at establishing an active financial sector for
mobilizing and allocating of resources, and at abandoning practices inherited
from a fully centralized economic system. Significant progress has already
been achieved in transforming the banking system, and in streamlining credit
and interest rate policies.
1. Transformation of the Banking System
3.02        In an effort to introduce competition into the banking system, the
essentially mono-bank system, in which NBP had a monopoly on commercial
banking, was converted into a two-tier banking system as of January 1989.  NBP
maintains the central banking functions, but has transferred all of its credit
activities to nine commercial banks created out of its own banking branch
system.   Under the new system, all banks--including five specialized banks
which existed prior to the new legislation--can operate as universal banks,
providing services t.o all economic units, independent of their ownership or
economic activity. Competition among banks is expected. The "basic account"
system, under which enterprises were directed to a single bank, was eliminated
in August 1989. Enterprises are now free to choose any bank or banks in which
to carry out their financial operations. In addition, the adoption of an
active interest rate policy is expected to provide the basis for jianks to
compete in deposit and lending rates. Entry of new banks has a1ready begu'i,
and the participation of foreign banks is expected. A Banking Supervisior
Department has been established. Legislation to facilitate capital market
development is under preparation. Table 3.1 shows the banking structure which
prevailed until December 1988, and the new structure introduced by the
implementation of the new Banking Law of January 1989.



- 13 -
Table 3.1:  POLAND - EVOLUTION OF THE BANKING STRUCTURE
As of December 31. 19M                As of January 1. 1989
CENTRAL BANK                          CENTRAL ANK
NBP                                   NBP
COMMERCIAL BANKS                      GOMMERCIAL BANKS
NBP's branch Network                  Nine new commercial banks:
-State Credit Bank of Warsaw
-Bank of Gdansk
-Bank of Silesia
-Bank for Industry and Trade of Cracow
-Deposit and Credit Bank of Lublin
-National Economic Bank of Lodz
-Great Poland Credit Bank of Poznan
-Pomeranian Credit Bank of Szczecin
-Western Bank of Wroclaw
SPECIALIZED BANKS                       Existing banks:
PKO Savings Bank                      -PKO Savings Bank
Bank for Food Economy (BFE)           -Bank for Food Economy
Bank Handlowy (BH)                    -Bank Handlowy
Export Development Bank (EDB)         -Export Development Bank
Bank PKO SA                           -Bank PKO SA
2. Credit Policies
3.03        Until recently, the major objective of credit policy was to
accommodate the financing requirements of the central economic plan. Bank
credit was extended liberally to ensure that the plan's production and
investment requirements were achieved. In addition, credit allocation was
influenced through the intervention of "founding" institutions (branch
ministries). In recent years, however, NBP has ceased to be formally
subordinate to the Ministry, of Finance and has progressively been granted more
autonomy in the formulation of the annual credit plan which, although
coordinated with the economic plan, is no longer viewed as automatically
accommodating the requirements of the latter. Under the current system, the
expected main thrust of credit policy is to contribute to an efficient control
of monetary and credit expansion. In this context, the credit plan now sets
an upper limit on toral credit expansion based on macroeconomic
considerations.
3.04        From January 1989, the practice of directed credit, in which
credit was allocated by economic sector and by ownership of economic units
(socialized and non-socialized), has been abandoned. The new regulations aim
at managing credit policy based on indirect instruments--interest rates,
refinancing credit, and reserve requirements--rather than the previous direct
controls. This policy is expected to be reinforced by the transformation of
formerly sector-specialized banking institutions into universal banks (para



- 14 -
3.024. Banks are now expected to provide credit based on enterprise
creditworthiness and on the merit of the projects.
3. Interest Rate Policies
3.05        Interest rates on bank credits to the socialized sector were
adjusted infrequently during the period 1983-1986. Interest rates remained
negative in real terms and had little influence on credit flows. Furthermore,
much of the credit enjoyed preferential rates, and directed credit remained
the main instrument for allocating financial resources. Since 1988,
progressive efforts have been made to improve interest rate policies.
Initially, nominal interest rates were adjusted periodically in an effort to
approach rates that were positive in real terms. However, explosive inflation
prevented the full realization of this objective and real deposit and lending
interest rates remained negative. For a short period beginning in 1988, NBP
adopted a policy of establishing minimum rates to be paid on demand deposits,
and maximum rate to be charged on credits, but in August 1989, NBP freed both
deposit and lending rates. Currently, NBP's refinancing rate, which is
adjusted periodically, is 56%. While the use of preferential interest rates
has been scaled down significantly, such rates--ranging from 22% to 33% plus a
92 spread--continue to be in place for activities such as agriculture, energy
savings, environmental protection, housing and exports.
B. 'Te Idtutio FA
1. The National Bank of Poland
3.06        NBP, in its capacity as the Polish Central Bank, issues currency,
acts as the Government's bank, refinances other banks, holds the official
foreign exchange reserves of gold and part of the official foreign exchange
reserves, administers the foreign exchange regulations and, in consultation
with the Ministry of Finance, prepares the annual credit plan.
3.07        Prior to recent reforms, NBP was also the largest commercial and
saving bank, providing banking services mainly to socialized enterprises
through an extensive network of branches, and to households through a similar
network of national saving banks. Over two thirds of household and firm
banking transactions were carried out with NBP. Generally, branches of the
NBP were assigned groups of enterprises in particular localities and, as
enterprises dealt with only one bank in their domestic financial operations,
there was very little competition in the banking system. NBP was the main
source of credit for socialized economic units and for households. The Bank
of Food Economy (BFE), through the cooperative banks network, was the main
supplier of credit to non-socialized economic units, mostly private farms.
Other non-socialized enterprises were financed through Bank PKO SA.



- 15 -
2. The Commercial Banks Formed from the NBP Branch Network
3.08        The nine new commercial banks /, which are fully state-owned,
began operations in January, 1989, by taking over NBP's commercial (non-
housing) operations. NBP transferred to the new banks most of its branch
network, and each new bank has in excess of 20 branches. Although there are
no geographical restrictions for the new banks to operate, the initial
distribution of the former NBP's branches made each bank predominant in a
region, with additional branches located in some large cities/towns where NBP
previously operated two or more branches. Banks are free to set up new
branches in other parts of the country, subject only to prudent restraint.
3.09        Upon its establishment, each bank was allocated between 8X and 141
of NBP's commercial portfolio associated with the operational branches taken
over by the respective bank. The new banks are universal banks offering
banking services to both the household and enterprise sectors. These new
state-owned commercial banks have became--at least initially--the main
financial intermediaries in the Polish financial system as they have inherited
more than 70X of the total credit operations to all economic units in the
country. Several important structural and institutional issues are affecting
the development of the newly established banks. These include poor quality of
their portfolio, high credit concentration, under-capitalization, and :ack of
experience with modern banking practices.
3.10        Each bank is headed by a President (appointed by the Prime
Minister), who selects two Vice-Presidents and the rest of the top management.
Each bank has an Executive Council which is an advisory body of the President
and normally includes both Vice-Presidents, the Director of the Credit
Department, and one or two directors of branch offices who normally rotate
their membership in the Council with the rest of the branches. The
participation of the Workers' Council in the banks' management has been
abandoned in the new banking system.
3.11        The new banks are universal i, the sense that they are empowered
to offer banking services to both the household and enterprise sector, both
socialized and non-socialized. The banks can operi:te current accounts (demand
deposits) as well as savings and time deposits, both in zlotys and foreign
currency. Currently, all banks are in the process of establishing their
foreign currency operations department, which will allow them to lend in
foreign exchange. At this time, they have to transfer their deposits in
foreign currencies to NBP. Since August 1989, banks have been free to
establish their deposit and lending interest rates, which has introduced some
degree of competition. However interest rates both on deposits and on lending
remain highly negative in real terms. The banks may als,i finance long-term
investment projects, but at present they are granting, almost exclusively,
short-term loans. Most of them are engaged in efforts to renegotiate long-
6/    Any or all of the commercial banks may be eventual participants under
the project, but they will first have to meet established eligibility
criteria as detailed in Chapter V.



. 16 -
term loans inherited from NBP, in order to transform them into shorter term
operations at variable interest rates.
3.12        All financial activities with bank clients are performed at the
branch level. Each Branch Director is responsible for all deposit and credit
activities, and for providing the central office with periodic reports and
special reports which may be requested by the President. In addition, each
bank has a central control office to oversee special tasks assigned to it by
the President. Although they have been functioning for less than a year, the
banks are clearly eager to establish their independence and prepare themselves
for a new competitive environment. All banks are in the process of developing
their own policies and procedures, and introducing computer technologies which
should speed up internal reporting and improve management control. The banks
are hiring highly qualified people for their central offices, to help
facilitate adaptation to the changing environment and to implement the
necessary changes Z/. Salary scales are being restructured to reflect talent
and effectiveness rather than seniority, as well as to be competitive with
alternative employment opportunities.
3.13        While the new Banking Law permits enterprises to select their
banks, and banks to select their clients, the traditional banking practices
and long-established relations with an enterprise still prevail, making access
to credit for new applicants rather difficult. While each bank has issued its
own credit manual, differences in practice among banks are almost non-existent
as they rely substantially on their extensive experience in term lending
inherited from NBP. In theory, any enterprises keeping an account at any bank
can apply for credit, provided it meets certain established eligibility
criteria. These are related to the sector of activity of the enterprise, its
financial situation, and its capability to repay the credit and implement the
project within the proposed scheduled. Investment credit maturity is set to
match the gestation period of the investment project.
3.14        Interest rates for local currency loans vary between 65X for up to
one year credit, to 901 for medium and long-term credit. These rates give the
banks about a 20X spread over the corresponding time deposits, and the full
spread over the non-interest bearing current accounts. Because of the
profitability of these spreads, banks are expanding efforts to increase their
deposit base to finance their credit operations. As of June 30, 1989, about
45X of total bank credit was financed with banks' own resources. The main
alternative source of financing is rediscounting by NBP.
3.15        Functions undertaken by the Head Office of each bank include the
bank's overall coordination, supervision of the branches' work and credit
decisions for loans above certain limits, ranging between Z1 100 million to Zl
500 million depending on the bank. Loans over these limits are appraised at
the branch level, but must be approved by the President of the bank. Most of
the banks have not yet established credit committees for the approval of their
7/    For example, 751 of the professional staff in the central office of the
Bank for Industry and Trade of Cracow have been newly recruited. The
average age of newly hired staff is about 32.



- 17 -
loans, but this will be a condition of participation in the project (para
5.16). A Credit Committee acting as an advisory body to the President will
ensure that he has full expert support and will avoid arbitrariness in credit
decisions.
3.16        Overall, supervision of investment projects is quite satisfactory.
In addition to monitoring enterprise accounts and overseeing loan collections,
the financing branch periodically visits the site of projects under
implementation, and undertakes special supervision visits for projects facing
difficulties. In general, superv'sion is performed by branch personnel,
except that a designated bank engineer may join site visits or review
technical proolems identified by the loan officer. In case of non-compliance
with the original credit agreement, the loan terms could be renegotiated.
Because of the traditional one-to-one relations between the former NBP's
branches (today's new commercial banks) and the enterprises, loans are seldom
called. Instead, guarantees are tightened up, usually through required co-
signing of the renegotiated loan by another enterprise client of the bank. As
a result of these systematic reviews of financial positions and tight
supervision of the borrowers results, arrears are rare, small and usually
settled in less than three months.
3.17        Procedures for the araisal of investment projects in all the new
commercial banks are based on a version of discounted cash flow method, which
compares well with international practice.  Each bank is equipped with
experienced financial analysts and has a number of engineers who serve both
the head office and, as required, particular branches. The appraisal of a
project frequently focuses on gathering technical and financial data related
to the project and the enterprise, with limited analysis.  This pattern of
project review needs to be improved in order co lessen the credit risk in a
more competitive framework.
3.18        The accounts of the banks are audited by a Commission of Accounts
Revision which is appointed every year by the Council of Ministers at the
proposal of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission's report is sent and
reviewed by the Council of Ministers. Until now, however, banks have not been
audited by independent auditors following international auditing standards.
3. The Previous S2ecialized Banks
3.19        The five banks A/ previously denoted as "specialized" now form
part of the new commercial banking system:
(a)   PKO Savings Bank was established in November, 1987 as a general
savings bank to serve the household sector and to replace the
existing network of NBP saving branches. As of January, 1988,
PKO Savings Bank also took over the NBP outstanding housing loans.
Under the new banking law and according to its statutes, the bank
t/    Two of these banks (Bank Handlowy and the Export Development Bank) are
expected to be initial participants under the proposed project. Their
operations are discussed in detail in Chapter V.



- 18 -
can undertake operations also with enterprises in all type of
activities.
(b) The Bank for Food Economy until recently carried out its
traditional functions of: (i) catering to socialized agriculture
and the food processing industry; and (ii) servicing and
refinancing a network of over 1,600 cooperative banks, which in
turn, offer banking services to non-socialized agriculture and to
the rural population.  Early in 1989, BFE changed its statutes so
as to expand its operations according to the universal banking
principles introduced by the new banking law. BFE is a mixed
state and cooperative institution which was formed in 1975 through
the merger of the Agricultural Bank and the Central Union of
Savings and Loan Cooperatives. The Ministry of Finance is the
majority owner with 51X of the shares, while the cooperative banks
hold the remaining 49X.
(c)   The Bak Handlowv continues to provide over 901 of settlement
services for the socialized sector's foreign transactions in
domestic and foreign currencies. It also manages the country's
official foreign exchange reserves. BH's main activity has been
primarily the short-term foreign exchange financing of trade.
However, it is also empowered to provide financing in zlotys,
mostly for working capital, and longer term financing mostly to
finance exports. BH is 100X owned by the Ministry of Finance.
(d)   The Exoort Development Bank started operations in January 1988 as
the first new bank to be set up under the previous 1982 Banking
Law. EDB's operations were restricted to provide credits only to
socialized enterprises, primarily in foreign currency, for export-
related projects. Also, EDB's statutes limited its operations to
wholesale banking, and thus could not offer any services to, or
mobilize resources from, individuals.  However, in April, 1989,
new statutes were approved, which expanded EDB's operations to
universal banking, in line with the stipulations of the new
banking law.
(e)   The Bank PKO S  continues to concentrate on foreign exchange
services--mainly foreign currency deposits--for households and
private sector. These services include mainly opening and
maintaining foreign currency accounts for individuals and
providing banking facilities to polonia firms, private industrial
enterprises, and foreign trade enterprises.
4. Other Now Banks
3.20        Several new banks of various type of ownership, including state-
owned, cooperatives, private and joint ventures, are expected to be
established in the near future. During the first quarter after the new
legislation, about 30 applications were screened for potential entry. Among
new banks already established are the Bank for the National Economy, which is
fully state-owned and whose main activities are expected to include state



- 19 -
investments and industrial restructurlng, and the Bank for Economic
Initiatives, which is the first commercial bank with private capital
participation.
5. The Banking Sugervision DVeRartment
3.21        As provided under the new banking law, a Banking Supervision
Department (BSD) was established in NBP in January 1989. During preparation
of the proposed project, a training program financed through the PPF has been
conducted for BSD staff by representatives of the US Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency and the US Federal Reserve. Since that time, the pace of
implementati i of the supervisory system has slowed considerably as the BSD
has been unable to gain approval of an internal regulation of NBP that would
set its organizational structure and outline its method of operation. As a
result, the prudential regulatory framework and supervision of banks are at an
embryonic stage.  NBP has al;o sought IMF assistance in carrying out further
development of the BSD -and in coordination with this effort, Bank assistance
is proposed under the projbct (para 4.14).
C  Indms_ _l nutmt llamdn
1. Domestic Credit Financing
3.22        Domestic credit financing for industry has been substantially
simplified and streamlined as a result of the new banking legislation. The
new credit policy is based upon the principle of full freedom of banks to
credit economic units based upon the creditworthiness of the enterprise (in
practice, a bank considers an enterprise as creditworthy when its current and
prospective financial standing assures its capacity to reimburse principal and
interest as they become due), associated risk, and merits of the project as
perceived by the financing bank. Under this framework, previous norms
regarding shares of bank financing vis-a-vis enterprise financing--
particularly regarding investment financing- -have been abandoned i/.
3.23        In addition, the new industrial credit policy includes provisions
which establish limits on credit growth and practices for access to NBP's
refinancing credit. For monetary policy pur'oses a uniform ceiling on the
annual credit growth of each bank has been established. Initially, the
proposed allowable credit increase for 1989 was set at 35X compared to the
previous twelve months. However in face of mounting inflation, this ceiling
was increased to 601 (in nominal terms) for the whole year. In addition, as
noted above (para 3.05), NBP makes refinancing credit available to banks for
priority activities at preferential interest rates. Although access to
refinancing credit has been allocated on a bank-by-bank basis, banks are not
obliged to use these resources. As of June 30, 1989, 451 of total credit
2/    The reported rapid growth of inter-enterprise credit reflects enterprise
efforts to secure financing through non-bank channels, perhaps as a
reaction to tightening credit policies.



- 20 -
granted by new commercial banks was financed with resources independently
mobilized by the banks.
2. Foreign Credit Financing
3.24        The new Banking Law of January, 1989, and the Foreign Exchange Act
of March 1, 1989, extend the possibility to borrow abroad and to extend credit
in foreign currency to all commercial banks (previously only BH, EDB and Bank
PKO SA were empowered to carry out such operations).  The Ministry of Finance
sets limits on the foreign borrowing of the banks. An enterprise (socialized
or non-socialized) may also take financial loans and commercial credits
granted by foreign banks or suppliers to finance imports, but it must first
secure approval from the Ministries of Finance and Foreign Economic
Cooperation, and the consent of the domestic bank which holds its main
account. Foreign Trade Organizations continue to play an active role in
arranging foreign credit financing for exporting enterprises which comprise
mostly suppliers' credits. Also, exporting enterprises have resorted to other
mechanisms, such as counter-trade, to meet their import needs. Exporting
enterprises--independent of their ownership--are entitled to service their
foreign debt directly from their export earnings. Economic units that do not
export and that are not eligible for central financing of foreign exchange for
their imports, are able to obtain foreign currency through the various
auctions, the most important being those conducted by Bank Handlowy and the
Export Development Bank. As a result of these developments, centrally
allocated foreign exchange, which financed some 70X of imports in 1988, is
expected to be reduced to about 30X in 1989. However, although these measures
have improved the mechanisms for access to foreign exchange, overall
shortages, particularly for investment financing, continue to constrain
efficient industrial development.
D. Bank Satru    for Asddsam  to the Financial Sec.
3.25        Support to the development of the financial sector is an integral
part of the Bank's overall strategy for assistance to Poland (para 2.29).
Such support was initiated as part of the preparation of the proposed project
as well as of the ongoing policy dialogue. The design of the project makes a
fundamental contribution to the implementation of this strategy through: (i)
the involvement of a number of banks, selected only once they have agreed to
adopt an action plan to enhance their overall operational and financial
position; and (ii) the technical assistance aimed at strengthening the
management and operational capabilities of existing banks. Effectiveness of
these efforts is further assured by closely coordinating actions in these
areas with those of the IMF. These elements support the thrust of the reform
by fostering the development of the commercial banking system and competition
therein.
3.26        In line with the high priority the Government attaches to the
further development of the financial sector as a part of its current reform
effort, it has now requested the Bank's urgent assistance in this area. A
joint sector review was begun in November, 1989 to deepen the understanding of
the issues facing the sector and recommend needed policy reforms. The
insights gained will provide timely input to a possible policy-based loan in
FY90/91. Subsequent Bank assistance is expected to cover support for



- 21 -
financial sector reforms and for the development and modernization of banks
and other financial institutions. By accelerating the establishment of an
appropriate institutional network and policy framework, these efforts will
facilitate efficient financial intermediation including for future Bank
operations.
IV. TM:   R
A. JfEYkLQWhi!UJ gdIa3
4.01        The main objectives of the proposed project are to contribute to:
(i) improving the convertible currency trade balance of Poland by increasing
the volume, quality and value-added of industrial exports to convertible
currency markets; (ii) improving the capabilities of selected banks in project
financing; (iii) preparing restructuring programs and identifying
restructuring needs in industry; and (lv) initiating support for development
of the private sector.  These objectives support the country's efforts to
enhance rapidly its creditworthiness by improving its balance of payments, and
to launch effective industrial restructuring programs that fit in with the
ongoing implementation of reforms and changes towards a market economy.
4.02        The proposed project, supported by a US$260 million Bank loan,
includes two components:
(a)   Financing of exRort-oriented investments, for which US$245 million
equivalent of the proposed Bank loan has been provided. Seven
subprojects in selected exporting industrial enterprises in the
chemical, engineering and wood-based industries have already been
appraised. Loan proceeds would finance direct foreign exchange
costs of needed physical improvements to production facilities,
including machinery, equipment and spare parts, permanent working
capital, interest during construction, purchase of licenses or
other types of technology transfer, and technical assistance and
training at the enterprise level.
(b)   A technical assistance component for which US$15 million of the
proposed loan has been provided to: (i) strengthen the banking
system, by enhancing the capabilities of NBP and the selected and
potential participating banks and by helping ongoing efforts to
improve banking supervision; (ii) support the restructuring of
industry with studies of subsectoral restructuring strategies,
assistance to ailing enterprises and those which are likely to be
stressed by the ongoing reform process, and support for the
introduction of international accounting standards and auditing
practices; and (iii) support measures to stimulate the rapid
development of the private sector through both the development of
new private enterprises and the privatization of existing public
sector companies. US$1.5 million of the funds for technical
assistance have been advanced under a Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) approved by the Bank in June, 1988.



22 -
Bn  forEmorllI
1. Suboroiect Selection Criteria
4.03        In addition to the seven subprojects already identified and
appraised with Bank participation, additional subprojects selected by
prospective participating banks are being considered. To meet the overall
objective of supporting those manufacturing industries and industrial services
which will have a quick and positive impact on Polish exports, all the
subprojects to be financed under this component will be subject to the same
stringent eligibility criteria used to seleot the seven pre-identified
investments:
(a)   The borrowing enterprise must be in a sound financial condition,
and have the capacity to adequately service the additional debt
incurred as a result of the subproject;
(b)   A complete financing plan for the proposed subproject must be in
place, with adequate assurances in this regard from all financing
agencies;
(c)   Any borrowing enterprise must agree to undertake annual external
audits of its operations according to auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank;
(d)   The subproject must be completed within three years of
effectiveness of the subloan agreement which secures its
financing;
(e)   The cumulative net additional foreign exchange generated by the
subproject in the first four years after its completion (revenues
from new exports less additional foreign exchange expenditures for
production and debt service) must at least be equal to its foreign
exchange investment cost;
(f)   The financial and economic rates of return for the subproject must
exceed 18X; and
(g)   The subproject must not contribute to a safety hazard or to
enviromnental deterioration.
2. The Pre-identified Suborosects
4.04        The seven pre-identified subprojects already appraised were
selected from among about 50 proposals examined in some detail during project
preparation.  In addition to the above criteria, selection focused on those
enterprises operating in subsectors with a clear international comparative
advantage, and whose financial health could be reasonably assured during the
course of implementation of the reform.  These projects, which will account
for US$141 million of the Bank loan, show an average economic rate of return



23 -
of 32X, and will rapidly increase foreign exchange earnings through increased
availability and improved quality of exportable products. This will be
achieved by increased capacity utilization through debottlenecking measures,
or in some cases by capacity additions. Overall, the subprojects will also:
(i) reduce unit consumption of inputs and energy; (ii) ameliorate the impact
on the environment by reducing industrial pollution; (iii) promote
technological development including through the import of advanced
technologies; (iv) improve professional skills of enterprise staff through
comprehensive training programs tailored to meet specific enterprise needs;
and (v) induce a stronger Polish presence in foreign markets through
intensification of customer service and other export marketing activities.
The appraisals of these subprojects include assessments of the sectoral basis
for subproject selection, and an analysis of the enterprises' financial status
now and after subproject implementation. These appraisals are available in
the Project File, and brief synopses are included in Annexes to this report as
detailed below. The subprojects already appraised are:
(a)   Improvements to the Wistom Chemical Fiber Works at Tomaszow
including: (i) installation of a new plant to produce 9,000 tpy of
biaxially-oriented polypropylene film for packaging use; and (ii)
modification of an existing viscose staple fiber plant to reduce
polynosic fiber production from 13,000 to 6,500 tpy while adding
15,500 tpy of high wet modulus fiber production for textile use
(Annex 4-1).
(b)   Improvements to the Mazowian Refinery and Petrochemical Works at
Plock including: (i) modification of two existing polypropylene
plants to increase capacity from 75,000 to 90,000 tpy; (ii)
installation of a 60,000 tpy methyl tertiary-butyl ether (MTBE)
plant based on local technology; and (ii) revamping of the #3
vacuum tower to increase vacuum distillate yield and feedstock
availability for the other two subprojects (Annex 4-2).
(c) Major debottlenecking of the Pulawy Nitrogen Works through: (i)
restoration of an existing melamine plant from its current pre-
project output of 12,000 to 28,000 tpy; (ii) modifications to an
existing caprolactam plant to increase output from 29,000 to
36,000 tpy, concurrently increasing production of cyclohexanone
for sale (from 9,000 to 13,000 tpy) and amonium sulphate (from
81,000 to 101,000 tpy); and (iii) modification of the existing
urea plant by replacing four existing obsolete lines with a new
line, while rehabilitating existing equipment, all of which will
increase urea production from 540,000 to 709,000 tpy (Annex 4-3).
(d)   Modernizing the Wieruszow Particleboard Plant in order to: (i)
increase production from 200,000 to 230,000 cubic meters per year;
(ii) improve quality in terms of urea formaldehyde content,
surface characteristics and product uniformity to normal West
European standards; and (iii) add a line of 3 million square
meters annual capacity for the production of veneered
particleboard (Arnex 4-4).



- 24 -
(e)   Adding a chair production line with a capacity of 200,000 chairs
annually to the manufacturing facilities of the Zielona Gora
Furniture Factory to complete its line of furniture for export to
the West European market (Annex 4-5).
(f)   Improving the Avia Machine Tool Com2anv at Warsaw through the
construction of new buildings and addition of new machinery to
allow expansion in the production and improvement in the quality
and number of products, especially tool-room milling machines and
ball-screw transmissions (Annex 4-6).
(g)   Improving the Rafamet Machine Tool Comanv at Kuznia Raciborska
through upgrading the foundry and installation of new machines to
expand production and improve the quality of the company's two
primary product lines--large sized vertical boring and milling
machines, and machines for turning railway wheel and axle sets
(Annex 4-7).
4.05        Some of these subprojecrs (such as biaxially-oriented
polypropylene, high wet modulus fiber, melamine and the machine tools
projects), as well as contributing directly to exports, will indirectly expand
foreign exchange earnings through increased exports of downstream products.
Several subprojects are interrelated, such as Tomaszow which receives
polypropylene from Plock, and Pulawy which receives benzene from Plock and
which supplies melamine to the Wieruszow wood panel plant.
4.06        Most of the increased output which will be obtained is in products
which Poland is already exporting, thur minimizing the risk associated with
entry into new markets. Some of the exports will be marketed directly by the
enterprises, as in the case of Tomaszow and Rafamet, while the balance will be
exported through specialized Foreign Trade Companies (Ciech for chemical
products, PAGED for wood-based products and Metalexport for machine tools).
Taking advantage of the new and more liberalized export trading regime (para
2.27), most enterprises have also begun to investigate the possibilities for
direct exports. Market and marketing prospects for all products appear good
and are discussed together with other details of the subprojects in Annexes
4-1 to 4-7.
4.07        Although the enterprises undertaking the pre-identified
subprojects are relatively well managed, there is a need in some cases for
improvement in areas such as management information systems, and for
introducing a certain degree of restructuring to increase overall
competitiveness and efficiency. While restructuring of the firms is not
within the scope and the objectives of this first loan, as a first step,
critical improvements of operational skills will be addr^ssed in order to
increase the professional capabilities of the staff. Most of the subprojects
thus include a training component at the enterprise level in such operational
areas as marketing, process technology, maintenance, financial planning,
computerization, and project management. Furthermore, all enterprises
borrowing more than $4 million will need to introduce effective cost
accounting and auditing standards and management information systems as a
condition of the subloan.



- 25 -
3. Additional Subprojects
4.08        The project includes scope for adding further subprojects which
meet the established criteria detailed above (para 4.03). It is anticipated
that a wide variety of industrial enterprises, with no restrictions on
subsector or ownership, will be assisted through this facility. A solid
pipeline of subproject proposals has been presented. For smaller subprojects,
with a requirement for up to US$1 million of the proceeds of the proposed Bank
loan, the participating banks will be responsible for appraising loan
applications, under the supervision of the Project Appraisal and
Implementation Department (PAID) of NBP (para 6.03). A special simplified
appraisal procedure will be accepted for subprojects with subloans of less
than $100,000 (para 6.12). For subprojects with a subloan requirement of more
than US$1 million, and up to US$4 million, NBP would be directly involved with
the appraisal. Subprojects requiring more than US$4 million would also be
eligible, subject to prior agreement with the Bank, and would be appraised
jointly by the participating bank, NBP and the Bank.
4.09        These provisions have been included to take account of the limited
initial appraisal capabilities of the participating banks, and the more
advanced capacity of NBP, which has developed an effective appraisal capacity
during the process of project preparation.  As the participating banks develop
their own appraisal capability, NBP's direct role would be scaled down.  The
provision to include special arrangements, i.e. appraisal jointly with the
Bank, for larger (more than US$4 million of Bank funds) subprojects is
designed in order not to exclude as yet unidentified subprojects which could
have significant positive effects on export earnings, and which the
participating banks may not have adequate capacity to appraise.
C. 3e TecujSi A88is0et Comu
4.10        The main objectives of this component are to support the
investment operation, assist the economic reform effort, and to begin
preparation of subsequent needed restructuring operations in industry. This
component would include:
(a) Strengthening the banking sector through: (i) training of the NBP
staff (PAID) in charge of coordinating and supervising the project
(already partly implemented through the PPF); (ii) technical
support to improve the capabilities of banks, particularly in
project appraisal and supervision, organization, credit
administration and analysis, asset and liability management, and
foreign currency operations; and (iii) technical support to
strengthen the newly established Banking Supervision Department
(in coordination with IHF), particularly in organization, and in
the elaboration of procedures and manuals;
(b) Supnogt to orepare for the restrueturing of industry through: (i)
the development and financing of studies; (ii) providing
assistance to ailing enterprises and those which are likely to be
stressed by the ongoing reform process; and (iii) technical



- 26 -
support for the introduction of international standards of
accounting and training of auditors to familiarize them with
international auditing practices (already partly implemented
through the PPF).
(c) Technical suMnort for private sector development, including
assistance for: (i) the promotion and strengthening of newly
created small private enterprises; and (ii) developing a
privatization framework and guidelines for preparing socialized
enterprises for transfer to the private sector. Specific
assistance for privatization would be made available for
enterprises financing subprojects under the project.
4.11        External financing is proposed to cover the foreign exchange
expenses for consultants/experts, studies, software and travel expenses for
study tours, as well as for hardware associated with these activities. While
Bank financing has been included for this component, other sources of funds,
in particular bilateral assistance, are being sought for some of these
activities. To the extent that such financing becomes available, Bank funds
would be reallocated to the investment financing component of the project.
1. Strengthening the Banking Sector
4.12        Part of the trainin of NBP staff in project evaluation,
procurement and other matters associated with project implementation under
World Bank financing has already been carried out during preparation of the
project through seminars and on-the-job training in another European bank that
has borrowed from the Bank. Much of this work has been financed through the
PPF.
4.13        The strengthening of the selected and potential participating
banks' capabilities in project appraisal and supervision will be the
responsibility of teams of Polish specialists with the necessary technical and
economic expertise, guided by NBP, and assisted by foreign technical experts
as appropriate. At the same time, training will be provided to upgrade bank
managers' capabilities in basic banking practices, including plunning and
performance, credit administration and analysis, asset and liability
management, and foreign currency operations. Work programs and team staffing
details have been elaborated for all proposed training for the selected and
potential participating banks, and agreed to with the concerned Polish
institutions. This program for strengthening Polish banks is a critical
component in preparing them for eventual participation in this and future Bank
lending operations.  Details of the Terms of Reference for this program of
activities to strengthen the banking sector are contained in Anx 4-8.  In
addition, resources will be made available for the banks to implement an
action plan aimed at strengthening their operational and financial situation
through such measures as management information systems, portfolio
improvement, risk management, etc.
4.14        In addition, as previously discussed (para 3.21) the strengthenin
of the NBP's Banking SM2ervision Delartment, which has been initiated during
project preparation with PPF financing, will continue in close collaboration



- 27 -
with W  . In order to maximize the effectiveness of these efforts, a
comprehensive program aimed at completing the organization, operation and
training of BSD staff, to be implemented over an estimated two year period,
has been agreed. To initiate and coordinate these activities, the proposed
project includes the appointment of a resident technical advisor. Terms of
reference detailing the functions of the proposed technical advisor are
contained in Amex 4-9.
2. Support for Industrial Restructuring
4.15        Restructuring of the industrial sector will require major efforts,
both to foster restructuring of subsectors, enable allocation of resources
towards more competitive activities and support restructuring at the
enterprise level. Assistance to this effort is being provided through
studies, support to specific enterprises, and training of accountants and
auditors to improve the quality of external audits. Resources will also be
provided under the project to assist the Government in formulating and
implementing programs of technical support and training to facilitate the
expansion of exports. The project will help the Government to design
restructuring policies for critical activities through the support and
financing of diagnoses and studies aimed at ensuring that the restructuring
effort starts on a realistic and sustainable basis.
4.16        The subsector studies will examine the status, constraints and
potential of selected subsectors. Proposals currently being considered
include cononents and sub-assemblies for electro-engineerinZ, packaging and
steel.  The first two subsectors were selected on the basis of their high
impact across the whole industrial sector and on export expansion.  The steel
industry was selected due to its importance in many down-stream industries,
the potential for the reallocation of resources, and the possible heavy impact
of potential closures on labor and on regional economies.  The studies will
provide valuable information to assist the Government to identify the
requisite institutional and policy measures to stimulate efficient
restructuring and further development in the subsectors. They will also
assess the needs for restructuring these industries away from uneconomic
activities, and identify measures to deal with the employment and social
consequences associated with such restructuring. At the enterprise level, the
studies should assist enterprises to identify specific restructuring
opportunities, and provide banks with information which will assist them to
appraise enterprise proposals.
4.17        The studies are expected to be conducted by foreign consultants in
association with local consultants under the direction of the Ministry of
Industry. The selection of consultants for components and packaging has
already been launched with PPF financing. Terms of reference for these
studies are attached in Annexes 4-10. 4-11 and 4-12.
4.18        More immediate support for the restructuring effort is proposed
through a targeted program of enterprise assistance aimed at ailing
enterprises, and at enterprises which will be financially stressed as a result,
of the rapid transformation of the Polish economy towards a market
orientation. This program, which is detailed in Armx 4-13, would develop



- 28 -
criteria for a rapid screening of industrial enterprises to identify those
which are (or will be) in most urgent need of assistance. A preliminary
diagnosis would allow a distinction to be made between those which could be
saved through a restructuring effort, and those which are fundamentally
unsound. Follow-up assistance would aim at elaborating strategies and
detailing the necessary restructuring steps for potentially viable
enterprises, and an orderly liquidation program for those which are not.
While the program would initially be limited to the 15-20 enterprises in most
urgent need of this type of support, it would also enable a more global
assessment of overall restructuring needs and likely costs. Assistance under
the project is proposed to finance specialists who would work with a unit
being established within the Ministry of Finance to oversee these activities,
and to finance the follow-up studies which would be undertaken by consultants.
Direct input from the Bank would also be provided for the setting up of this
program in the context of preparing a possible future industrial restructuring
project.
4.19        Current accounting standards and auditing procedures in Poland are
quite different from international practice, and there is considerable scope
for introducing effective accounting and auditing as a management tool and as
a tool for assessing the performance of enterprises and managers. Training of
accountants and auditors has therefore been provided under the project. This
component, which has already been initiated with PPF financing, will
familiarize Polish accountants and auditors with international practice, and
initiate the implementation of such practice in Poland. Seminars have been
conducted in Poland by qualified international accountants and auditors, and
will be repeated for a wider audience by teams of Polish specialists with the
assistance of international accountants and auditors. Specialized follow-up
seminars are planned as is on-the-job training of a selected number of Polish
accountants and auditors in 'nternational accounting and auditing firms.
3. SugoRort for -Private Sector Development
4.20        One of the Government's stated objectives is to progressively move
Polish industry towards the private sector and the project would support these
initiatives in two areas. First, direct support would be provided to
stimulate the creation and development of new orivate sector industries. The
focus of such support would be the training of the staff to give direct
technical assistance to entrepreneurs. Among other things, such services
would involve assistance in the preparation of subprojects and subloan
applications which could receive financial support under the investment
component of the project. Small business expertise from other European
countries (in particular Italy) is being tapped to assist with the
implementation of this component.
4.21        Second, the project will provide financing for experts and studies
needed by the Government to establish a coherent framework and legal system
for privatization as well as to prepare guidelines which will elaborate and
clarify the requirements under the law. The guidelines are intended to ensure
transparency, and acceptable procedures/standards for valuations, bidding
documents and evaluation of offers, while avoiding the introduction of any
unnecessary constraints to privatization. In addition, as a pilot attempt to



- 29 -
initiate specific enterprise restructuring, funds will be made available on a
request basis to the enterprises with subprojects financed under the project
for assistance in the Drenaration of specific enterprise privatization plans.
Such plans would aim at developing a privatization strategy, and a program for
a subsequent enterprise action plan aimed at achieving that end. The design
and implementation of these tasks are being closely coordinated with IFC, from
whom the Government has also sought assistance to design its privatization
program.
4.22        Terms of reference for the activities aimed at stimulating new
private sector activity and for providing support to privatization are
contained in Annex 4-15.
D. PrMect Cost and Financing
4.23        The project cost is estimated to be US$455 million equivalent, of
which US$276 million will be foreign exchange as shown in Table 4.1:
TabIl 4.1: POLANi) - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROECT COST
Local       Foreign       Total
-(US million) - 
Seven pre-identified investments       109         151           260
Other investments                       64         110           174
Technical assistance                     6          15            21
Total financing required         179         276          455
4.24        About 57X of total financing required (including interest during
construction and working capital) is needed for the pre-identified
investments, 38X for similar investments which have not yet been identified
and/or appraised, and the remaining 5 for technical assistance. Capital cost
estimates for the individual pre-identified subprojects are detailed in
Annexes 4-1 to 4-7, and summarized below in Table 4.2.



- 30 -
Tablg 4.2: POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE FOR PRE-IDENTIFIED INVESTMENTS
X of Base
local     Foreign        Total       Cost
-- (USS million)-                    (%)
Base cost                         74        110          184          100
Physical contingencies             7         11           18           10
Price escalation                   a         13           _111
Total project cost         89       IL4           223
Working capital                   13          4           17
Interest during construction    71         __3            ZQ
Total financing required        _109        151         a 0
4.25        The base-cost estimates are expressed in September 1989 prices and
are based on the companies' estimates and the Bank's own cost information.
Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 of the base cost estimate. All
estimates are in US$, to minimize the effect of rapid changes in the exchange
rate and very high rates of inflation. Local costs were converted to US$ at
the official exchange rate which prevailed in mid-September 1989 (Zl 1350 -
US$1.00). For most input costs and sales prices, the use of this exchange
rate gave values in dollars reasonably close to international norms. Although
there have been subsequent significant changes in exchange rates, these are
immediately reflected in the earnirngs of the export-oriented enterprises
included in the project, and in most cases have also largely been compensated
for with rapid changes in domestic prices. The resulting US$ financial
projections and rates of return based on dollar streams are thus believed to
be realistic, and are conservative, because selection of a lower exchange rate
would invariably improve the projected financial performance of the selected
subprojects. From the US$ basis, price contingencies have been estimated
assuming international inflation rates of 7.21 in 1989 and 1990, and 4.42
annually thereafter. Aggregated incremental working capital requirements are
estimated at US$17 million, excluding the cost of spare parts for two years,
which are included in the base cost.
4.26        The agreed financing plan for the pre-identified investments is as
shown in Table 4.3:



- 31 -
Table 4.3: POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN FOR PRE-IDENTIFIED INVESTMENTS
X of
oal        Foreign       Total      Total
-- (USS million) -------        (1)
Enterprise funds                  60            9           69          27
Long-term loans:
World Bank                      -           141          141          54
Polish Banks                    41           1            42          16
Short-term loans for
working capital                               8                        3
Total financin3 required         109                       260         LQQ
The pre-identified investments would be financed 7O0 with long-term loans, 27X
with internal funds, and 3X with short-term loans. The proposed Bank loan
allocation of US$141 million for this component will cover 931 of the foreign
exchange requirements, the balance coming from the enterprises to provide
foreign exchange for incremental working capital and minor additional
investments. The local costs will be met by the enterprises through their own
funds, and by loans from local banks and customer credits.
E A!himmemLImaam
4.27        Environmental degradation is a serious problem in Poland. Air and
water pollution, generated by urbanization, industrial activity, energy
production, etc. has reached alarming levels. The Government is very
conscious of the environmental issue, however, it lacks a clear strategy
towards environmental protection and conservation. While there is some strong
environmental legislation, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and
Natural Resources does not have the capability or the means to elaborate,
enforce or monitor suitable environmental protection policies and legislation.
The Bank is working closely with the Government to develop an environment
technical as3istance project which would provide specific support in this
regard.
4.28        Studies pinpoint the burning of coal, both for power production
and in industry, as the major cause of air pollution. Industrial pollution is
also one of the major contributors to the continuing deterioration of the
country's lakes and rivers. Preparation of subprojects thus includes an
assessment not only of the environmental impact of the facilities to be
installed in the various sniterprises, but also of the existing operations of
the enterprises concerned.



* 32 -
4.29        For the three chemical enterprises in which pre-identified
investments are to be implemented, which are the most critical in this regard,
detailed environmental analyses have been undertaken and are available in the
Project File. For these enterprises, significant environmental improvements
will be achieved. At Tomaszow, for example, improved technology will
substantially reduce carbon disulfide emission per unit of output and the
enterprise has agreed to carry out a study to further reduce overall carbon
disulfide emission from high wet modulus fiber production and other
operations. At Plock, the production of NTBE will allow a decrease in air
pollution from automobile exhausts as this chemical replaces lead compounds in
gasoline.
4.30        While the results for other subprojects may be less significant,
they will leiad to environmental improvements. Foundry upgrading at RAFAMET,
for example, will reduce air pollution and working conditions, and
improvements to the particleboard factory at Wieruszow will reduce emissions
of urea formaldehyde from the finished product. NBP and the participating
banks will ensure that all enterprises which benefit from the proceeds of the
loan will build facilities and operate their plants financed under the project
in accordance with environmental and safety standards satisfactory to the
Bank.
F. Fnasncial jtIons
4.31        Preliminary estimates of the financial rates of return of the
pre-identified investmen s are summarized in Table 4.4. These rates of
return, based on assumptions detailed in the individual appraisals of the
subprojects (para 4.04) are satisfactory.
Table 4.4: POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRELIMINARY ESTIMATES OF COSTS & BENEFITS OF
OF SEVEN PRE-IDENTIFIED INVESTMENTS
Additional
Exports                  Estimated
Proiect Cost        at Full    First Year   Financial
Local  Eoreign  Total  Production      of Full      IRR _/
USS million----- (USS mill/yr) Production           (X)
Tomaszow           15.9    37.5    53.4    24.7           1994          34
Plock              17.7    16.6    34.3      16.5         1995          31
Pulawy             42.3    51.0    93.3      31.8         1995          28
Wieruszow           7.9      9.5    17.4      5.6         1992          35
Zielona Gora        7.4      6.7    14.1      5.3         1994          26
Avia                9.3    14.8    24.1       6.9         1993          22
Rafamet             8.2    14.9    27.9       5.4         1992          23
s/   Returns shown are on the aggregate of each enterprise's subproject
components. Economic rates of return (para 7.02) are somewhat higher.



- 33 -
4.32        The financial condition of the selected enterprises is good in
that they have little long-term debt, current ratios are 1.5 or better, and
reserves are available which can be used to finance a significant proportion
of the local costs of the proposed subprojects. While all enterprises will
take on new debt to finance the foreign costs and part of the local costs of
the subprojects, projected debt-equity and debt service coverage ratios are
satisfactory. Summarized financial statements for each enterprise, including
recent historical results, and projections with the project, are included in
the subproject appraisal reports in the Project File. Key financial
indicators are presented in Annexes 4-1 to 4-7 and summarized below in Table
4.5:
Table 4.5: POLAND - INDUSTRIAI. EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KEY FINANCIAL INDICATOR FOR ENTERPRISES WITH
PRE-IDENTIFIED SUBPROJECTS
Debt Equity    Current   Debt Service
Ratio &/    Ratio  /    Ratio h/
Tomaszow          45/55         2.6          4.0
Plock              6/94         2.4          n.a. _/
Pulawy            63/37         1.4          1.9
Wieruszow         36/64         2.1           3.5
Zielona Gora      21/79         6.5          3.5
Avia              62/38         3.0           2.2
Rafamet           33/67         5.3           3.5
a/ Highest during and after project completion.
h/ Lowest in five years following project completion.
j/ Plock is so large in relation to the subproject that the
loan and associated debt-service have a negligible effect on
financial ratios.
4.33        To ensure that enterprises do not engage in activities which might
prejudice their financial position and/or affect the success of the project,
adherence to prudential financial standards including restraints on activities
such as investing and borrowing will be necessary. For the pre-identified
subprojects, a standard 60/40 debt equity ratio, 1.5 current ratio, and 1.5
debt service coverage have been agreed and will be incorporated in the
relevant sub-loan agreements. These covenants will also form the standard for
other investments to be financed under the. loan; these may be modified
following the review of specific sub-projects to reflect the condition of
individual borrowing enterprises. Participating banks will ensure that in
their appraisal of the financial condition of proposed investment enterprises,
these standard measures will be evaluated and any major deviation specifically
justified.



- 34 -
V. THE FIANCIAL  RMEEDUR&S
5.01        Under Poland's current banking structure (Chapter III), the Bank
Handlowy (BH), the Export Development Bank (EDB), the Bank PKO SA, and the
nine commercial banks created out of NBP's commercial portfolio are the most
active in industrial finance. The current operations of most of these banks
have been reviewed in order to evaluate their capacity to transfer Bank
resources to enterprises. BH and EDB were first reviewed in 1987 at which
time it was concluded that both banks required strengthening of their project
appraisal and supervision capabilities. This work is well advanced, with
partial funding from the PPF advance. The reviews of BH and EDB have now been
updated and, as further detailed below, these banks are considered to be
suitable to participate in the project, provided they agree to undertake
satisfactory external audits of their operations, as included in the
eligibility criteria for participating banks (para 5.16), and sign a
Subsidiary Financing Agreement with NBP.
5.02        The review of a number of the new commercial banks spun-off from
NBP (Chapter III) revealed several positive developments since their creation.
At the same time, it identified some weaknesses that need to be addressed to
strengthen their financial position and institutional capacities. In the
course of project preparation, a number of these banks have expressed their
desire to participate in the proposed project and indicated their willingness
to undertake appropriate actions to overcome these existing weaknesses. The
project has been designed to permit their participation based upon their
developing and implementing action plans that will enable them to meet agreed
eligibility criteria (para 5.16). Assistance in this area was provided in the
course of project preparation and will be continued under the project (para
4.13).
IL    eB
5.03        BH is a joint stock company; 100l   of its shares are owned by the
Ministry of Finance. It has been assigned a dual role: the keeper and manager
of the GOP's foreign debt, as well as the only commercial bank whose major
function is foreign trade financing.
5.04        BH's management consists of a Board of Directors and an Executive
Board. The Board of Directors is chaired by the First Deputy Minister of
Finance. Its members are appointed by the Minister of Finance and include
senior representatives of NBP, Bank PKO, the Ministry of Foreign Economic
Cooperation, and the Planning Commission. Its main role is to supervise the
activities of the bank, and closely monitor its financial system and
performance. For this purpose, the auditing committee (which comprises
outside professionals appointed by the Ministry of Finance) reports to the
Board. The Board of Directors also appoints and recalls all members of the
Executive Board, which consists of the President, the First Vice-President and
three other Vice-Presidents of the bank.



-35 -
5.05        BH's main activity has been the financing of trading companies.
However it is also empowered to provide financing in zlotys mostly for working
capital, and longer term foreign exchange financing to manufacturing exporters
and to construction enterprises undertaking projects abroad. Currently, for
manufacturing exporters, BR provides only foreign exchange financing to cover
both imported inputs and imported machinery and equipment. Foreign exchange
credits are made only to producers which have ROD accounts, which are used by
BH to secure repayment. The foreign exchange risk is passed on to the
borrowers by requiring repayment in the currency borrowed. BH's credit
operations can cover any productive sector, and there are no legal limitations
on credit size or percentage of project cost to be financed.  The only limit
is the resource constraint faced by EH. Currently the maturity of foreign
exchange loans is limited to 3 years for working capital credits and up to 5
years for investment credits after project completion. Interest rates on
foreign exchange credits equal LIBOR plus a margin of up to 1.5%.
5.06        BH has six branches in Poland and three offices abroad.  Its total
staff is about 1,200. The Domestic Credit Department, which handles term
loans in foreign exchange, has a staff of 58, of which about 70X have
university degrees in banking related areas. BH's staff is well qualified and
experienced in foreign trade financing.
5.07        BH project aipraisal techniques have tended to be a rather
mechanical--checking documents supporting the loan application (including
documentation about the source and price of the imported equipment, and the
export market for the product), and the preparation of simple cash flow
projections, focusing on loan repayment capacity based on the net foreign
exchange earnings of the project. Procurement is carried out by foreign trade
enterprises who obtain quotes from several foreign suppliers.  BH confirms
that procurement has been done according to current regulations. BH's
supervision of projects has been a marginal activity in its lending
operations, as it satisfies itself by ensuring loan collection.
5.08        EH management recognizes the need to strengthen project appraisal
and supervision capabilities as a basis for effective participation in the
proposed project. Accordingly BH has begun to adopt measures aimed at
establishing in-house capabilities for carrying out the appraisal and
supervision of subprojects according to World Bank guidelines.  BH will
continue training its staff as part of the technical assistance to the banking
sector which is to be provided under the proposed project (para 4.13).
5.09        BH's financial statements as of June 30, 1989, present a
relatively healthy picture IQ/. Capitalization is adequate, with an equity to
assets ratio of 8.2X,  and a debt to equity ratio of 10:1.  Earning
performance is moderate, with a return on equity amounting to about 18% and on
average total assets to 1.9Z.  Like other banks in Poland, BH gives much
Q/  iBH's financial statements are contained in Annex  5-1.  It should be
noted that Polish foreign debt service in the bank's accounts are "below
the line", reflecting the Ministry of Finance's intention to remove
these items from BH's financial statements.



* 36 -
attention to liquidity; thus liquid assets to total liabilities are currently
431, well above conventional limits. This bank's loan portfolio is mainly
composed of short-term credit; it does not have central investment accounts
and in general does not deal in the preferential credit lines established by
NBP. BH is strongly exposed to a few large enterprises. Outstanding credit
given to its largest borrower represents about 27X of capital while that of
its three largest borrowers amounts to 50X of capital. Despite this exposure,
the actual risk is relatively low. All of these large borrowers are major
trading companies and their borrowing is short-term, revolving lines of
credit. BH can draw on deposits or on export proceeds of the borrowing
companies.  Inspection of the BH accounts shows that when arrears appear at
the end of a reporting period, they are usually repaid within the next month.
Thus, BH like most of the other banks in Poland, until now has no provision
for doubtful loans or potential losses. However, as a result of new banking
regulations and practices, BH's management has stated its intention to
introduce adequate provisions for potential 13an losses.
C. lNe ZKuizDhmnnm Bak
5.10        EDB began operations in January 1987 as a joint stock company; 71%
of its shares are owned by the ministries of Foreign Economic Cooperation and
Finance, NBP, and three state banks (Bank Handlowy, Bank PKO SA, and Bank of
Food Economy) and 291 are owned by 419 socialized enterprises. Its objective
is to finance and promote exports, particularly to convertible currency
countries. Although, legally it can lend any amount as long as its exposure
to any single enterprise does not exceed 151 of its capital and liabilities,
the EDB's management decided to limit its overall lending exposure to five
times its capital. In addition to its banking functions, EDB administers one
of the two major foreign exchange auctions.
5.11        EDB's overall manag2ment structure is focused on the Bank's
Council, composed of ten members representing the bank's shareholders, and the
Board of Management, which includes the bank's President, Vice-President, the
Director of the Credit Department and another member selected by the
President. The Bank's Council determines the bank's credit policy within the
framework of the general principles outlined by Parliament, the Council of
Banks, and regulations issued by the President of the NBP.
5.12        Currently, EDB has a staff of about 180, of whom 55X have
university degrees in economic/financial areas. Most have been recruited from
other banks or foreign trade organizations. Several have already received
training since joining EDB, including economic project evaluation,
procurement, and commercial and financial analysis of projects. Further
training in these and other banking operation areas is being undertaken on a
continuous basis.
5.13        EDB provides financing in foreign exchange and in domest c
currency for working capital as well as for investment projects, but
exclusively for export-related activities. Its rz.sources derive mainly from
short-term deposits (mostly in foreign currency) and its own capital. EDB
does not have any long-term deposits and its use of NBP's refinancing



- 37 -
facilities is very limited. EDB may make short- and long-term (up to 8 years)
loans in zlotys and in foreign currencies for up to 90X of a project's costs.
However, the Bank has adopted the cautious practice of granting fixed assets
financing in foreign exchange for up to only 3 years following project -
completion. The interest rate on foreign exchange loans is equal to LIBOR
plus a margin of up to 1.5Z. A similar margin is applied to foreign exchange
deposits, on which EDB makes a spread of 3X. Repayments are made from the
borrower's ROD account or from EDB's direct claim on export revenues accruing
from the borrower's exports. Because of EDB's relatively small size, the
projects are still reviewed by an informal management committee and authorized
by the President. EDB will, however, formalize its approval procedures prior
to becoming a formal participant under the proposed project.
5.14        As a relatively r.ew institution competing with other banks, EDB
has been particularly active in marketing its services and identifying
borrowers and projects.  It also started the  praisal of term loans with
procedures (including on-site visits) which compare well with international
standards. Project suRervision has not been a major issue for EDB, so far;
however, proper supervision practices are being put in place. Further, EDB is
strengthening its capabilities by hiring additional technical staff. For
specialized aspects, it will also contract with a consulting firm to ensure
proper appraisal and supervision of its projects.  EDB's operations show
considerable promise to achieve high professional standards. However,
considerable additional training is required to develop the capabilities of
the staff, and is being continuously undertaken. This training will be
supported, in part, by the project.
5.15        EDB's financial statement as of June 30, 1989 are contained in
Annex 5-2. Capitalization compares reasonably well with international
standards as capital represents about 7.6% of average total assets, and debt
to equity ratio is about 12:1. EDB is quite profitable, with net income
representing about 3.5X of its total assets. Two-thirds of the bank's profits
come from the interest mark-up on loans, but one-third consists of fees and
commissions on its foreign exchange activities, including the auctions of
foreign exchange. It is EDB's policy to maintain high levels of liquidity,
because of its involvement in export financing and holding of foreign exchange
retention accounts (RODs) of enterprises. Accordingly, its liquid assets to
deposits ratio amounts to 47.5X. EDB's portfolio consist of mostly short-term
loans in foreign exchange (911 of its loan portfolio), and all its loans are
at variable interest rate. The bank has no central investments accounts and
relies only marginally on preferential credit lines of NBP. Although EDB's
loan portfolio is substantially overexposed to individual enterprises (the
outstanding credit of its largest borrowing enterprise represents about 501 of
its capital and about 11X of its loan portfolio), the risk is relatively low
because of the short-term nature of the operations and the substantial
collateral involved. Most of the loans are secured by export proceeds, dollar
accounts held in the bank, or in some casas, by another enterprise which has
co-signed the loan.
D. EhIMdCrltmlafit OREM forlk
5.16         As noted above (para 5.02), commercial banks may be brought into
the projects as participating banks during the course of project



- 38 -
implementation.  The criteria which have been agreed by the selected banks,
and which must be met for any bank to participate in the proposed project
include:
(a)      good standing with regulatory agencies;
(b)      sound financial policies satisfactory to the World Bank;
(c)      establishment of a Credit Committee as an advisory body to the
bank's President on credit decisions. The Committee will include
adequate, qualified staff and will review all investment projects
and loans above the limit established for decision of branch
directors, as well as all major supervision problems;
(d)      establisbment of a tecbnical unit, specialized in medium - and
long - term project lending, properly staffed with at least one
industrial engineer, one financial analyst, and one economist, and
capable of undertaking project appraisal and supervision
acceptable to the World Bank;
(e)      satisfactory external audits of their operations according to
international auditing standards, starting with their 1989
accounts, with a view to developing and implementing an action
plan to improve, and thereby, maintain their overall operational
and financial situation. This action plan should explicitly
include measures towards:
Mi)  improving their financial structure, to achieve a capital to
risk assets ratio of at least 81 within an agreed time
frame;
(ii)  minimizing exposure risks by adopting lending limits as a
percentage of bank capital to a single borrower or a group
of financially associated borrowers;
(iii) introducing adequate provisions for potential loan losses;
(f)      signing of a Subsidiary Finance Agreement with NBP that would
reflect the intermediary acceptance of these conditions and
include provision of periodic reports on portfolio financed by
NBP.
Some of the potential participating banks are already developing preliminary
action plans aimed at meeting these criteria in the short-term future.
Details will be agreed on a case-by-case basis considering the specific
situation of each bank.



- 39 -
VL POE                              N  NJMMARN
A.  lect O ga_ntion and Iamet
6.01        Implementation of the proposed project will involve a number of
diverse institutions and enterprises. Their respective roles and
responsibilities in project implementation are described below.
1. National Bank of Poland
6.02        NBP will be the borrower of World Bank resources ",, which will be
lent to the final sub-borrowers through the selected participating banks. NBP
will be responsible for: (i) the overall execution and coordination of the
project; (ii) providing term credit to the participating banks for financing
of eligible subprojects; (iii) assuring the soundness of the subprojects to be
financed; (iv) monitoring the use of ?roject funds and their repayment to the
Bank; and (v) assisting in strengthening the project appraisal and supervision
capabilities of the selected participating banks.
6.03        NBP will administer and monitor the use of Bank funds, supervise
the pre-identified investments, and provide assistance to sub-borrowers mainly
in areas such as procurement, environment and safety, financial and economic
project appraisal in accordance with World Bank standards, and other
project-related matters. For the technical and procurement aspects of these
activities, NBP has established a Project Appraisal and Implementation
Division (PAID). In particular, PAID will advise and support the
participating banks. For this purpose, PAID has been adequately staffed, with
local specialists in all the above mentioned areas. The staff has been
trained abroad during project preparation. These arrangements, whereby NBP
will play a major role in administering the use of Bank funds, have been
adopted in consideration of the overall lack of capacity in the banking system
to undertake this type of activity. For future operations, the experience
gained and the training received by the participating banks should adequately
equip them to handle greater responsibilities.
6.04        For the subprojects yet to be identified and/or appraised, NBP
will be responsible for: (i) preparing standards for appraisal reports and
other standards and related guidelines such as supervision reports; (ii)
arranging training of selected staff from each financial intermediary through
formal sessions in all aspects of the project cycle, particularly appraisal
and the required technical, market, managerial, financial and economic
analyses; (iii) arranging training and assisting participating banks in other
activities, such as environmental, procurement and safety issues; (iv)
reviewing subproject appraisals submitted by the participating banks, and
participating in appraisals for those projects which would utilize more than
US$1 million of Bank funds; and (v) monitoring the technical supervision
conducted by participating banks of the subprojects financed with Bank
resources. Operating policies and procedures for the administration of the
proceeds of the loan by NBP are contained in Annex 6-2.
fl/   More detailed information on NBP is given in Annex 6-1.



- 40 -
2. The ParticLpAtingBADns
6.05        As noted in Chapter V (para 5.01), at least two banks (BH and EDB)
are expected to be selected for initial participation under the project.
Other banks can become eligible, provided they meet the established
eligibility criteria (para 5.16). The participating banks will: (i) identify
sub-borrowers; (ii) appraise subprojects; (iii) administer their subloans
(including those related to pre-identified projects); (iv) supervise
subproject performance; and (v) submit periodic reports on subproject
performance to NBP.
6.06        Within each participating bank, the credit department will prepare
the appraisal (with the exception of the projects already appraised) and
supervise all subprojects financed through their respective institutions.
Each participating will bank appoint, within its credit department, a "project
team" comprising at least three staff (generally an engineer, an economist and
a project officer) from among existing staff to perform those functions. The
"project teams' established in each participating bank will continue to
receive intensive training organized by PAID in project preparation, with
special emphasis on economic and financial project appraisal. Subloans to be
presented for financing through the participating banks will be cleared by the
respective Credit Committee.
3. The Borrowin; Entertrises
6.07        Borrowing enterprises will be responsible for subproject
implementation. The first seven borrowing enterprises are listed below in
Table 6.1.
-Tablg 6.1: POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BORROWING ENTERPRISES WITH PRE-IDENTIFIED SUBPROJECTS
-     Chemitex-Wistom Chemical Fiber Works
-     Mazowian Refinery and Petrochemical Works
-     Pulawy Nitrogen Works
-    Wieruszow Particleboard Plant
-     Zielona-Gora Furniture Company
-    Avia Machine Tool Company
-     Rafamet Machine Tool Company
For the .even pre-identified investments, in view of their size and
complexity, each borrowing enterprise has established a Project Implementation
Team (PIT), which will coordinate all phases of the subproject. The team is
headed by a qualified professional (the team manager, whose qualifications
have been reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank), fully responsible for
the timely and satisfactory execution of all phases of the subproject. The
team manager is assisted by full time and part time professionals and by
domestic and foreign consultants as necessary, who report directly to him.
The team is in charge of executing the following project aspects: design,



- 41 -
engineering, procurement, implementation planning, scheduling and execution,
cost control and financial matters. The team will also be in charge of
preparing the necessary information required tor subproject reporting and Bark
supervision. For these purposes, the borrowing enterprises as well as the
participating banks, will be assisted, as necessary, by PAID.
4. Arrangements for Technical Assistance
6.08        NBP will coordinate implementation of the technical assistance
component based on the following arrangements:
(a)   Strengthening of NBP. training of bank staff and strengthening of
the Banking Supervision Degartment (para 4.13 and 4.14) is being
managed by NBP. To expedite project implementation, the
Government has obtained an advance from the PPF to finance
seminars and on-the-job training abroad of PAID staff required to
undertake project preparation activities and procurement. The PPF
has also financed foreign experts participating in seminars for
training the staff of banks, and initial seminars aimed at
strengthening the Banking Supervision Department.
(b)   Support for restructuring including studies on selected subsectors
and the training of accountants and auditors (para 4.15) will be
coordinated by the Ministry of Finance.  Studies will be the
responsibility of the Ministry of Industry. The development of
the targeted program of assistance to ailing and financially
distressed enterprises (para 4.18), will be under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. Training of
accountants and auditors has been initiated by the Association of
Accountants in coordination with NBP. Resources available through
the PPF have enabled this activity to be satisfactorily initiated
and as a result, it will be possible to obtain audits of banks and
borrowing enterprises for 1989.
(c)   SuRRort for Private sector development (para 4.20) will be
coordinated through the Ministry of Finance. A program of
training and direct technical support is being elaborated. Work
has also been initiated with the Ministry of Finance concerning
assistance for the elaboration of new regulations and guidelines
for the privatization of public sector industries.
B. On-lending Arrangements
6.09        The proposed Bank loan will be made to NBP for a period of 17
years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate. In order to regulate the flow of funds from NBP to the beneficiaries,
and to set out the respective obligations of the various entities, the
following agreements will be signed: (i) a Loan Agreement between the Bank and
NBP; (ii) a Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and the Government; (iii)
Subsidiary Financing Agreements between NBP and the participating banks; and



- 42 -
(iv) Subloan Agreements between the participating banks and sub-borrowers.  To
implement the technical assistance components the following additional
agreements will be required: (i) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between NBP and
the Government; and (ii) a Subsidiary Lending Agreement between NBP and
eligible banks. Terms and conditions of those agreements will be subject to
Bank approval. Conclusion of a Subsidiary Financing Agreement, satisfactory
to the Bank, will be a condition of disbursement through each participating
bank.
6.10        NBP will make available Bank resources to sub-borrowers with
eligible subprojects by on-lending Bank resources to the selected
participating banks for re-lending to final sub-borrowers. Repayment
schedules of funds on-lent by NBP to the participating banks will be on a
back-to-back basis. Should the final sub-borrower prepay all or part of the
subloan prior to maturity, the participating bank will immediately repay the
sum received to NBP. In case of arrears in principal repayment, or in payment
of interest on any due date from a sub-borrower, the participating bank will
nevertheless be liable for payment on the due date and will then be
responsible for making appropriate arrangements to get the account current
from the enterprise concerned.
6.11        All funds available for on-lending will be available to the
participating banks on a first-come first-served basis, without any allocation
by participating banks to specific industrial subsectors or classes of
ownership.
6.12        Other than for the seven pre-identified projects, maximum subloan
size and maximum amount of financing for eligible enterprises will be US$4
million equivalent, except as the Bank may otherwise agree. An initial free
limit for subloans selected by intermediary banks has been set at US$300,000
for NBP review and at US$1,000,000 for Bank review. In addition to the pre-
identified projects already appraised by the Bank, the first three appraisals
undertaken by each intermediary bank will be submitted for prior Bank review,
irrespective of subloan size. For small subprojects whsich meet the export
earnings criteria and minimum financial rate of return (item (e) and (f), para
4.03), a simplified appraisal procedure will be adopted as detailed in the
procedures in Annex 6-2. For such subprojects, subloans will be limited to
US$100,000 for each enterprise with an initial overall limit of US$10 million
of Bank funds. As implementation proceeds, this limit may be reviewed.
6.13        The terms of subloans to enterprises will vary from case to case,
but will not exceed 10 years, including a grace period of not more than 3
years. Subsidiary loans to eligible participating banks as well as subloans
to enterprises, will be denominated and repayable in US dollars. NBP will
tear the foreign exchange risks between the US dollar and the Bank's currency
pool. These arrangements for US dollar-denominated onlending are proposed to
be reviewed based on progress in unifying the exchange rate and reforming the
interest rate structure with a view to assessing the feasibility of onlending
in the national currency.  The interest rate proposed to be charged oy NBP to
participating banks will be established as a floating rate linked to London
Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR) for dollar deposits plus a margin for NBP.



- 43 -
NBP will establish this interest rate for a six month period. NBP will
establish its margin, in consultation with the Bank, taking into account its
spread requirements and the cost of similar funds in the market. This margin
is set at 1.75X for the period January 1- June 30, 1990. With regard to on-
lending by the participating banks to the final beneficiaries, in order to
enhance competition, the participating banks will be free to set the interest
rate to sub-borrowers at prevailing market rates. The loan to the Government
for technical assistance will be made for a period of 17 years, including 5
years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus 1.51.
6.14        NBP will establish a rollover fund with resources generated by
repayments of all subloans under the Project. Resources from the rollover
Fund will be available to NBP for financing development projects to expand
exports.
C.  h
6.15        Procurement will be the responsibility of the enterprises, and is
already being carried out by the pre-identified enterprises, assisted by the
procurement experts in the PAID of the NBP, and channelled, whenever
necessary, through the respective Foreign Trade Organization. All equipment
and material to be financed by the Bank is and will be procured in accordance
with Bank procurement guidelines through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB), except in cases where Limited International Bidding (LIB),
international shopping and direct contracting are more appropriate (para
6.17). For bid comparisons under ICB, domestic manufacturers will be eligible
for a margin of preference of 15X or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is
lower 'i. For local procurement of civil works and equipment, wbich the Bank
is not financing, local bidding procedures will be followed. This normally
involves selection of one from among several possible suppliers, on the basis
of a number of factors including availability, delivery and price. These
procedures have been examined and are satisfactory for the implementation of
the present project.
6.16        As shown in Table 6.2, approximately US$108 million, or 43% of the
proposed Bank loan, would be used for an estimated 80 packages of goods to be
procured under ICB. The first four packages under ICB (as well as the first
two packages under LIB), and all packages over US$1,000,000, will be subject
to the Bank's prior review.  This is expected to cover about 70% of all ICB
packages.
12/   The participation of Polish suppliers in the bidding is expected to be
limited as the material and equipment to be procured under the project
are generally not manufactured in Poland.



- 44 -
Tablg 6.2: POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED PROCUREMENT PLAN
(US$ million)
Procurement Xethod
ICB   Local   LIB    IS    Other        Total
Civil works                   ^     62.0    -       -      -           62.0
Equipment & machinery       108.0   35.0   33.0   60.0   15.0         251.0
(108.0)   -    (33.0) (51.0) (15.0)       (207.0)
Engineering services,
technical & management
assistance                  -      -      -      -      46.0         46.0
-      -      -      -    (28.0)        (28.0)
Training                      -      -      -       -      3.0          3.0
-      -     (2.0)         (2.0)
Others a/                     -      -      -       -     63.0         63.0
-        -     ~~~~~-    ( -  )    ( -  )
108.0   97.0   33.0   60.0   127.0         425 =J
(108.0)   -    (33.0) (51.0)  (45.0)       (237.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses represent the respective amounts to be financed
by the Bank.
a/    Including duties, taxes, and working capital but excluding local
interest during construction.
k/    Excluding World Bank financed interest during construction.
6.17        Procurement with Bank funds using non-ICB procedures includes: (i)
equipment and technical licenses for which there are a limited number of
suppliers, as agreed in each case by the Bank, which may be purchased through
limited international bidding (LIB) and estimated to total US$33 million; (ii)
small and miscellaneous items costing less than US$500,000 each, which may be
procured through International Shopping (IS), and estimated to total US$51
million; (iii) direct contracting from suppliers who are the only source for
specialized or proprietary equipment or licenses, for an estimated total of
US$15 million of Bank funds; and (iv) engineering services, technical
assistance and associated expenses for management development, studies and
training, for which Bank-financed expenses are expected to total US$28
million, and which will be procured according to Bank Guidelines for the use
of consultants by World Bank borrowers. Up to a total of US$25 million is
being proposed for retroactive financing to allow for the financing of



- 45
preliminary engineering, and down-payments for critical and long-delivery
items procured according to Bank guidelines.
D. Allocation of lank Lan and Disbursements
6.18        The proposed Bank loan will cover up to 100% of: (i) foreign
exchange expenditures (cif) for directly imported goods or ex-factory costs of
domestic goods procured through 1CB; (ii) foreign exchange expenditures for
engineering, financial planning, computerization for development of management
systems; (iii) foreign expenditures for technology transfer, including the
cost of licenses and other payments for specialized technology and associated
equipment of a proprietary nature; (iv) foreign exchange expenditures for
training and consultant services in Poland, and for visits abroad by local
staff for engineering, procurement, marketing, technology transfer and
training; (v) foreign exchange expenditures for incremental working capital;
and (vi) foreign exchange expenditures for interest during construction.
6.19        To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account will be established
and maintained in US dollars on NBP's books, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, with an authorized allocation of US$15 million
covering an estimated four months expenditures. Applications for
replenishment of the account will be submitted quarterly, or sooner after
one-third of the funds have been disbursed.
6.20        The estimated disbursement schedule for the Project, along with
disbursement profiles of other Bank-financed industrial projects in the EMENA
Region, and elsewhere, is contained in Annex 6-3. The expected disbursement
of the loan for the Project has been based on a careful analysis of actual
schedules and budgets for the various project components. Due consideration
has been given to the extended period typical for final disbursements from a
line of credit. The overall disbursement schedule is moderately faster than
the historical disbursement profiles, but this is reasonable in view of the
advanced state of preparation of a number of subprojects and as rapid
disbursement has been one of the principal criteria for subproject selection
(para 4.03). Disbursements for expenses to be covered by the TA component
will be made against full documentation for contracts equal to or above
US$25,000, and against Statement of Expenditures (SOE) for contracts below
US$25,000. Disbursement for expenses to be covered under all remaining
components of the loan will be made against full documentation for contracts
equal to or above US$300,000, and against SOE for contracts below US$300,000.
NBP will keep full documentation for SOE expenditures for review by Bank
supervision missions.
6.21        Procuremernt is a'ready well ad-vanced for the pre-identified
subprojects, and rather rapid initial commitment and disbursement are
expected. However to allow for the current lack of familiarity with Bank
procedures, it is proposed that provision be made for a rather extended
disbursement period, and consequently the closing date for the loan, is June
30, 1996.



- 46 -
L AmdiU nLdfRwf  R g   _b
6.22        All project accounts, the Special Account, the Statements of
Expenditure, and the financial statements of the project entities
(participating banks and borrowing enterprises) will be audited at the end of
each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Copies of
these audit reports will be forwarded to the Bank within six months of the end
of the reporting period. Beginning with the financial statements for the year
1989, this requirement will be for audits to international standards
undertaken by auditors qualified for this task. Arrangements for auditing
have been assessed, and training has been and will be provided (para 4.20) to
strengthen the capabilities of Polish auditors so as to secure audits
acceptable to the Bank.
6.23        To enable the institutions in Poland and the Bank to monitor
progress of project implementation, NBP (as the Borrower of Bank resources)
will furnish the Bank with a series of reports on a regular basis, which will
include, inter alia: (i) audited financial statements within six months after
the close of each Polish financial year for all borrowing enterprise
undertaking a pre-identified investment; (ii) progress reports of all
subprojects under implementation, in a format and degree of detail acceptable
to the Bank, which will be prepared every three months by beneficiaries for
verification and consolidation by NBP, which will forward them to the Bank not
later than 45 days after the end of each period; (iii) analysis of collection
for all subprojects; and (iv) records, financial statements, other progress
reports, or other types of information that the Bank may normally request from
borrowers and beneficiaries. In addition, NBP will prepare a Project
Completion Report of the entire project six months after the completion of
disbursements, covering all related activities during project implementation
and describing the Project's costs and benefits.
vIL    B li:NFl TME R T
7.01        In addition to the direct financial benefits already discussed
(para 4.31), the proposed project will yield major benefits to Poland, both
quantitative and qualitative, including: (i) economic benefits (reflected in
estimates of ERR); (ii) convertible currency earnings derived from the
increased availability of quality products for exports; (iii) upgrading of the
project preparation and supervision capabilities of banks; and (iv)
environmental and other benefits, as described below. Because of the design
of the proposed project, most of the benefit estimates presented herein refer
to benefits expected from the pre-identified investments, the preparation and
appraisal of which has bee.- made jointly by Polish and Bank staff. Since the
selection of further investments is to be made on the basis of similar
criteria, similar benefits are anticipated. The benefit of technical
assistance, though not quantifiable, will be significant in such areas as
banking and managerial capabilities, export marketing capabilities and
initiatives to strengthen the private sector. In addition, the project will
contribute to tae strengthening of Polish institutional capabilities to
develop restructuring programs, and to the identifying of restructuring



- 47 -
opportunities in priority industries. It will also support initial efforts to
stimula_e new private sector developments and privatization efforts in the
ongoing move towards a true market economy.
A. ECOnomic Benefits
7.02        Estimates of economic rates of return for the pre-identified
investments have been made by making appropriate adjustments to the financial
cost and benefit streams. Most inputs and outputs are tradeable and have been
adjusted to border prices. For the base-case analysis, non-tradeables have
generally been left at the unadjusted domestic price and no adjustment has
been made to the exchange rate. Details for each subproject, including a
sensitivity analysis under various assumptions, are contained in the
respective appraisal reports (para 4.04). The economic rates of return range
from 21X to 421, with a weighted average for all subprojects of 32%. Despite
the distortions in the Polish economy, these economic rates of return are
rather close to (in fact a little higher than) the financial rates of return
(para 4.31). Considering the nature of the subprojects, this is not
surprising. Most of the output will be exported, so financial and economic
project prices are not very different; most of the capital cost is imported
machinery and equipment; and for the particular group of enterprises selected,
the overall cost of inputs is not markedly different from border prices.
Sensitivity analyses prepared for each subproject show the rates of return are
rather insensitive to reasonable changes in the base-case assumptions,
including delays in project iiiplementation which could be encountered if the
uncertainties in the transition stages of the reform create unanticipated
difficulties in implementing the project. The returns would increase with a
depreciation of the exchange rate.
B. Foreig  Echan 
7.03        The rehabilitation measures under the loan are expected rapidly to
increase the convertible currency earnings of the borrowing enterprises
starting no later than the fourth year after the proposed sub-loan is made
effective. Many of the subprojects to be financed will generate convertible
currency earnings as early as the first year after loan effectiveness.
7.04        As shown in Table 7.1, net convertible currency earnings (not
including foreign exchange savings from import replacement), after repayment
of the foreign debt incurred under the project, are estimated for the
pre-identified subprojects to be about US$248 million through the end of 1995,
compared to a total foreign exchange cost of US$151 million. These earnings
take into account only net earnings from increased exports (net of asso.iated
raw material inputs) and do not reflect additional convertible currency
earnings of local downstream export activities which will benefit from the
subprojects. Similar foreign exchange earning potential is anticipated for
additional subprojects to be financed under the project.



- 48 -
Table 7.1: POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NET CONVERTIBLE CURRENCY EARNINGS OF PRE-IDENTIFIED SUBPROJECTS
(US$ million equivalent)
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   Total   Ratio al
Tomaszow       -      5.7    8.7   10.8   13.2   13.6    52.0       1.4
Plock          -       -     5.2    7.0    8.7    9.0    29,9       1.8
Pulawy         -       -     7.8   25.8   29.6   30.3    93.5       1.8
Wieruszow     0.1    4.2    5.3    3.0    3.1    3.3    19.0        2.0
Zielona Gora           -     2.4    1.7    3.2    3.3    10.6       1.6
Avia          (0.2)   2.4    4.8    3.9    4.1    4.3    22.4       1.5
Rafamet       2.2    3.4    5.2    3.2    3.3    3.5    20.8        1.4
248.2     1.7
a/ Ratio of sum of net increase in convertible currency earnings to 1995,
to foreign exchange cost.
C  Enviamental Impact
7.05        The environment-related activities to be included in the
pre-identified subprojects to be financed under the Project have been
previously discussed (para 4.29). Given the magnitude of Poland's
environmental problems, these will not have a major effect on a national
basis, although an important environmental contribution of the project will be
the production of MTBE to replace toyic lead compounds in gasoline. At the
enterprise level, the project will not in any instance aggravate environmental
degradation and in more than half of the subprojects, it will lead to a
discrete and measurable reduction in polluting discharges. Subloan covenants
will require that subprojects not contribute to environmental or safety
hazards, and that any facilities to be provided under the project be installed
and operated with due consideration to safety and the environment (para 4.30).
The project is thus introducing a concept which may lead to similar policies
in the participating banks for future lending operations. Finally, by
including as part of project preparation an assessment of the environmental
impact of existing operations undertaking pre-identified subprojects (para
4.30), the project has helped to focus attention on potential methods for
further improvement.
D. Institutional Benefits
7.06        Through the technical assistance component of the loan, project
appraisal and monitoring capabilities of NBP and the other financial
intermediaries participating in the project will be substantially improved,
and foreign expertise in project-related aspects will be acquired and
disseminated. Also, improved conditions for a healthier banking system
development will result from enhancing the banks' operational capabilities and
from assisting the establishment of a modern supervision and prudential



- 49 -
regulatory framework. In addition, auditing practices will result from the
technical assistance to the auditing profession, with beneficial implications
beyond the project itself. Polish institutional capabilities to develop
restructuring, small scale enterprises and privatization programs will be
substentially strengthened, laying foundations for future industrial
restructuring activities and private sector development.
E  2CherisBiD
7.07        Through project management, technical assistance and training
programs, the loan will help the borrowing enterprises to acquire wider
knowledge of the international scene, new technologies, and needed efficiency
and competitiveness requirements, and to improve staff and managerial
profassional capabilities. The loan is expected to achieve an important
demonstration effect among similar enterprises in Poland and to disseminate
newly acquired experiences both at the enterprise and Government levels. High
indirect benefits are therefore expected, both from the demonstration effect
and the technical assistance, setting in motion the industry towards improved
efficiency and an increased role of the private sector.  In addition, the
technical assistance will provide support to ailing industries, and in
particular those which will be adversely affected during the transition period
of change towards a market economy (para 4.18).
F. isks
7.08        While in the long term, the implementation of the reform will
enhance the expected direct and indirect benefits of the project, there is a
risk that in the short term (during the initial implementation of the
adjustment and stabilization program), possible uncertainties associated with
the transition period might delay the implementation of the project and
adversely affect some of its expected direct benefits. To safeguard against
this risk, the selection of the pre-identified enterprises has been focussed
on those enterprises which are financially healthy under the current
environment and can be expected to remain so during the course of reform.
Furthermore, the project includes stringent financial and economic rate of
return criteria to be met by all investment projects to be financed.   Another
short-term risk concerns the operations of the new banks created from existing
NBP branches which could induce delays in identifying and appraising projects.
To minimize this risk, careful attention has been given in the project design
to the role of NBP, the location of PAID and to the impact of the foreseeable
changes on the various mechanisms to implement the project. In addition,
action plans to strengthen the selected and potential participating banks have
been developed and will be implemented during the course of the project.
Extensive supervisior. by Bank staff has been budgeted to monitor and support
these efforts.
7.09        In the longer term, a risk that could adversely effect the
indirect benefits of the project stems from the ambitious program of
adjustment and stabilization that the Government is implementing. While the
Government's current plans are satisfactory, the major institational and
systemic reforms are unprecedented in Poland and may take longer than
currently planned. The Bank's on-going economic and sector work dialogue will
be important in helping to identify and overcome weaknesses in implementation
of the reform and to support the Government's overall industrial policy reform
program.



- 50 -
7.10        Other risks includes export market risks, problems arising from
the limited experience of the participating banks in adequately appraising
subprojects, and delays in project implementation particularly due to local
procurement difficulties. To minimize these risks, careful marketing analyses
have been conducted for each of the pre-identified investments to ensure a
realistic assessment of external demand, and funds and training to strengthen
project appraisal and supervision capacities of selected and potential
participating banks are incorporated in the proposed project. Finally, the
implementation arrangements designed as part of the project include mechanisms
to expeditiously resolve problems with local procurement that could lead to
delays. To ensure efficient project implementation, all of these activities
have already been initiated.
VIMt AGRENU ANDN
A. Mnmnob
8.01        During negotiations, the National Bank of Poland agreed to:
(a)   Ensure that participating banks will require that borrowing
enterprises with pre-identified subprojects conform to the
subproject criteria contained in para 4.03, and that new
subproject selection be based on these criteria;
(b)   Ensure that subloan agreements between participating banks and
borrowing enterprises will contain suitable assurances that
borrowers will build and operate their plants in accordance with
environmental and safety standards acceptable to the Bank (para
4.30);
(c)   Ensure that subloan agreements between participating banks and
borrowing enterprises will contain appropriate financial
covenants, developed according to standards acceptable to the Bank
(para 4.33);
(d)   Ensure that the selected participating banks will conform to the
criteria contained in para 5.16, and the selection of any
additional banks will be according to these criteria;
(e)   Maintain PAID with staff, facilities and other resources and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.03);
(f)   Ensure that in administering the loan, it will operate according
to agreed policies and procedures (para 6.04);
(g)   Coordinate overall arrangements for technical assistance (para
6.08);
(h)   Onlend to the Government, through a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
satisfactory to the Bank, funds needed to implement technical
assistance and training activities executed by Government agencies
(para 6.09 and 6.13);



- 51 -
(i)   Ensure that the maximum subloan size of US$4 million equivalent
for eligible enterprises is observed and that the overall limit of
US$10 million of Bank funds for subloans of $100,000 or less is
not exceeded (para 6.12)
(j)   The basis for determining interest rates to the participating
banks and final borrowers and the establishment of NBP's margin
for the first six month period (para 6.13);
(k)   Ensure that the participating banks conform to the agreements
reached concerning the terms of subloans to borrowing enterprises
(para 6.13);
(1)   Establish and administer a rollover fund to recycle resources
generated by repayments of subloans (para 6.14);
(m)   Maintain the proposed Special Account on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (para 6.19);
(n)   Ensure that all Project accounts, the Special Account, the
Statements of Expenses, the financial statements of the
participating banks and the financial statements of any borrowing
enterprise are audited at the end of each fiscal year by
independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank (para 6.22); and
(o)   Ensure that audited accounts and other reports are furnished to
the Bank in a timely manner and that a comprehensive Project
Completion Report will be prepared (para 6.23).
8.02        During negotiations, the Government agreed that it will coordinate
and monitor arrangements for technical assistance to be carried out by
Government agencies.
8.03        Conclusion of a Subsidiary Financing Agreement, between NBP and
each participating bank will be a condition of disbursement through them, and
conclusion of a Subsidiary Lending Agreement, between NBP and eligible banks
will be a condition of disbursement to them. Conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between NBP and the Government will be a condition of disbursement
for technical assistance undertaken by the Government. Conclusion of a
Subsidiary Financing Agreement between NBP and one participating bank will be
a condition of effectiveness of the loan. All of these agreements must be
satisfactory to the Bank.
EL Roommendfo
8.04        On the basis of the above mentioned agreements and the staff
appraisal, the project is considered suitable for a Bank loan of US$260
million, including up to US$25 million of retroactive financing, for a period
of 17 years, including five-years of grace, at the Bank standard variable
interest rate. The loan will be made to the National Bank of Poland and
guaranteed by the Government.
December 29, 1989



- 52 -
Page 1 of 2
POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. The Industrial Sector
A.1   "POLAND - Reform, Adjustment and Growth".  World Bank Report No.
6736-POL. Washington, DC. 1987.
A.2   "POLAND - Competitiveness of Industrial Activities".  Draft Report
of the World Bank. Washington, DC. March, 1988.
A.3   "POLAND - Efficiency - Competitiveness of Industrial Activities".
Report of the World Bank. Washington, DC. November 1988.
A.4   "POLAND - Country Economic Memorandum".  Draft Executive Summary
of a Report of the World Bank. Washington, DC. October 1989.
B.  Project Reoorts and S udies
5.1   "POLAND - Financial Intermediary Study".  Report prepared by
Development Finance Consultants, Ltd (DFC). London. July 1987.
B.2   "POLAND - Light and Chemical Industries".  Unpublished internal
report of the World Bank. Washington, DC. February, 1987.
B.3   Economic Mission to POLAND - 'Report on Electro Engineering
Subsector" - P.E. Consulting Services.
B.4   Information on Packaging Industry in Poland, December 4, 1987.
Ministry of Industry - Packaging Department.
B.5   Component Industry Study - Promasz, January 1988.
5.6   Industrial Development Project - Poland, Survey of Environmental
and Safety Aspects - Chemcontrol AIS, January 1988.
C. Selected Workin  PRs
C.A   Subproject Appraisal Report: Chemitex-Wistom HWH and BOPP.
C.2   Subproject Appraisal Report: Plock Polypropylene, MTBE, and Vacuum
Tower.
C.3   Subproject Appraisal Report: Pulawy Melamine, Caprolactam and
Urea.
C.4   Subproject Appraisal Report: Wieruszow Particleboard Plant.
C.5   Subproject Appraisal Report: Zielona Gora Chair Factory.



- 53 -
Page 2 of 2
C.6   Subproject Appraisal Report: Avia Machine Tools Plant.
C.7   Subproject Appraisal Report: Rafamet Machine Tools Plant.
C.8   Outline of Polish Component Industry
C 9. Poland: Export Incentives, July 7, 1987
C.10 "POLAND - The Steel Industry, A Reconnaissance Report". Draft
Report of the World Bank. Washington, DC. August 1989.



- 54 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 1 of 3
PpOLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMNNT PROJECT
Chemitex-Wistom High Wet Modulus Fiber and
BiaxiAlly-Oriented Polvurop=lene Suburol eets
A. Introduction
1.          The Chemical Fiber Works 1/ at Tomaszow is installing equipment
with a capacity to produce 15,500 tpy of a new viscose fiber with a high wet
modulus (HWM), of which about 5,000 tpy would be for export; and 9,000 tpy of
biaxially oriented polypropylene (BOPP) film.
2.          Tomaszow is the oldest man-made fiber producing company in Poland
having been established in 1911 as a joint venture by Polish, French and
Belgian interests. The company is now fully state-owned and uses the viscose
process to convert wood pulp to produce 4,600 tpy of rayon (continuous viscose
filament), 4,700 tpy of viscose tire cord, 6,500 tpy of cellophane, and 26.000
tpy of viscose staple fiber which is equally divided between polynosic and
regular types. The HWM project will provide needed renovation of the
polinosic lines and will make full use of existing plant infrastructure.
B. Miarkets
3.          Tomaszow's viscose fiber products are used locally in the textile
and tire industries. These products are produced mainly from local materials
and replace cotton, which is all imported. Apparent consumption of viscose
fibers is about 80,000 tpy. Polish textile mills have benefitted greatly from
the availability of Tomaszow's polinosic fiber and are eagerly awaiting its
HWM production which has even more desirable qualities, especially as it is
less stiff and blends more easily with cotton.
4.          Tomaszow's planned exports of about 5,000 tpy of HWM fiber are a
small part of global consumption of about 3 million tpy, and well in line with
its steadily rising ability to export polinosic fibers which have grown from
540 tons in 1984 to 3,000 tons planned for 1989. The HWM exports will mainly
replace the polinosic ones, which are largely directed to Turkey, Yugoslavia,
Pakistan, the U.K. and Hungary. World viscose production is diminishing as
older plants are closed down and not replaced. The 95 plants now in operation
in the world utilize 802 of their capacity. Tomaszow is well placed to
compete with the other two European producers of HMW mainly because of its
lower labor costs, and the availability of plant infrastructure.
5.          Tomaszow handles its own exports through an export marketing
department which was established two years ago with high caliber personnel.
6.          There is considerable demand for BOPP and other advanced films for
food packaging in Poland given its considerable export trade in candies,
1/ Zaklady Vlokien Chemicnych



- 55 -
ANNE 4-1
Page 2 of 3
cakes, chocolate and noodles which is becoming jeopardized for lack of
sui4able packaging materials. The target export markets; are generally Uestern
Eur pe and SE Asia.  Tomaszow's planned exports of about 5,000 tpy are small
in comparison with both global and European markets. The marketing of BOPP
will be handled directly by Tomaszow both for local and export sales, with the
initial help of the equipment suppliers.
C. The Proiect
7.          The project's two main components are the modernization and
expansion of the viscose staple production line and installation of the bi-
orientated polypropylene film line.
D. Environmental Inmact
8.          The environmental impact of the project will be positive in the
sense that due to the more sophisticated technology all emissions --especially
CS, into the air--will decrease considerably per unit of production and will
be below the standards set by the Polish Environmental Protection Authority.
As part of the project under World Bank financing, Tomaszow will carry out an
exhaustive environmental study to identify optimal means and measures to
reduce overall environmental pollution from the factory.
E. Proiect Cost and Financing
9.          As sumarized below, the total financing required for the project
is estimated to be US$53.1 million equivalent, of which US$37.5 million would
be foreign exchange and the balance local costs.
Tomaszow Proiect - Capital Cost Estimate
(US$ million equivalent)
Local   FreiUg   Total       Xof BCE
Base Cost (September 1989 prices)      10.9     27.6     38.5         100
Physical contingencies                  1.1      2.8      3.9          10
Price escalation                        1.0      .7L    4.7            12
Total project cost                     13.0     34.1     47.1
Increase in working capital             1.9      0.2      2.1
Interest during construction            0.       3.3.1
Total Financing Required                                 A"
10.         The following financing plan has been developed jointly with the
enterprise:



- 56 -
ANX4-1
Page 3 of 3
Tomaszow Proiect - Proposed Financine Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Logal   Foe2ign   Total         of total
Internal Funds                          9.1       2.0    11.1          20
Long Term Loans
- World Bank                             -       35.5    35.5          67
- Polish Banks                          5.3        -      5.3          10
Bond Issue                             1.4        -L A.4                3
Total Financing Required
F. Financial and Economic Projections
11.         Key figures and ratios from these projections are presented in the
following table.
Tomaszow Proiect - Summary of Projected Financial Data
1989   1990   199    L9    1993   1994
(est)
Sales revenue (million US$)    340.7  365.3  380.0  406.5  422.7  434.5
Net profit (million US$)          8.5   13.8   15.4   19.1   22.8   24.5
Net Income/Sales (Z)              6      6       7      8      9       9
Debt service coverage ratio a/   n/a    n/a    6.7    4.0    4.6    4.8
Current ratio                     2.6    2.3    2.6    3.5    4.7    6.1
Long-term debt:equity           24:76  39:61  45:55  33:67  23:67  14:86
^/    At the end of 1988, the company has virtually no long-term debt
12.         These figures show that future financial performance should be
satisfactory. Based on projections with and without the project, the
base-case financial rate of return is 34X for the combined project. After
adjusting to ecowomic values, the base-case economic rate of return is 33X.
13.         The project will be generating net foreign exchange earnings in
its first year of operation, and cumulative net foreign exchange earnings
generated by the project during its first four years of operation will have
exceeded the foreign convertible currency component of the project by 1995.



5- s7 _
a    4-2
Page 1 of 4
POLAND: INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Plock PolvDroDvlene. MTBE. and Vacuum Tower Subprojects
A.  Intro,ducto
1.          The Mazowian Refinery and Petrochemical Works (MZRIP) 2X
subproject is: (i) expanding the capacity of polypropylene from the present
level of 75,000 tpy to 90,000 tpy, most of the increased output to be added to
current exports; (ii) installing a new plant to produce 60,000 tpy of methyl
tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) half of which would be for exports; and (iii)
replacing and improve equipment in the vacuum tower of the #3 topping unit to
reduce costs, increase throughput, and so increase the feedstocks for the
other two projects.
2.          MZRIP was established as a state owned enterprise in 1959 to
refine and process crude oil to produce fuel and chemical products.
Operations started in 1964 with a throughput of 6 million tons per year (mtpy)
of crude oil. The crude capacity is now 12 mtpy, and there is a capacity of
340,000 tpy of ethylene.
B.  Markets
3.          HZRIP is the only producer of polypropylene in Poland supplying
the 100 or so users. The installed capacity of users is about 90,000 tpy of
which MZRIP can supply only 60,000 tpy at present as it exports the balance of
its output of about 10,000 tpy which it must do to pay for needed imports.
4.          World demand for polypropylene is now just under 8 mtpy, and is
still experiencing annual growth of 5X or more, which is expected to continue
well into the 1990s. Some over-supply is noticeable at present in world
markets--a phenomenon also observed in the other bulk plastics like
polyethylene and polyvinyl chloride. The planned exports of MZRIP would
increase from current levels of about 10,000 tpy to about 15,000 tpy, still a
minuscule amount in the global market. The exports would be likely to go to
China and South East Asia where MZRIP currently does much of its current
polypropylene export business. These exports represent 2X or less of the
imports into these areas
5.          Marketing of polypropylene in the local market is done by MZRIP.
Export marketing is done entirely by the chemical foreign trading company
Ciech, which in turn works through local agents. Polypropylene represents
about 10 of the MZRIP's current exports.
6.          MTBE is not produced or used in Poland at present.  MTBE is used
as a substitute for lead compounds to increase the octane rating of gasolines
21    Nazovieckie Zaklady Rafineryjne i Petrochemiczne.



- 58 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 2 of 4
and so produce a less polluting fuel. Demand for gasoline in Poland is hard
to gauge precisely. Gasoline consumption in Poland has run at 3.2-3.5/mtpy
since the late 1970s, being kept at these levels by rationing until recently.
End-use analysis based on a yearly increase of about 130,000 new passenger
cars would push local gasoline demand to about 4.5 mtpy by the mid-1990s.
Potencial demand for MTBE would be 10 of 4.5 mtpy or 450,000 tpy by the late
1990s. This will clearly exceed the output of the planned project of 60,000
tpy.
7.          Export prospects for MTBE from MZRIP are good, given the
increasing requirement for lead-free gasoline in Western Europe. Demand in
Western Europe is therefore likely to be 3.5 mtpy by the mid-1990s.
8.          MZRIP will have a transportation cost advantage in the European
markets because of the high volume to low value characteristics of MTBE.
There should therefore be little problem of MZRIP placing its rather small
export of 33,000 tpy especially in the target markets of West Germany and
Sweden where its transportation advantages are greatest. Local sales will be
done as gasoline through the national company for the distribution of
petroleum products, while export sales will be done by Ciech.
C. The Project
9.          The project is increasing the output of polypropylene while
reducing its cost of production, adding MTBE to the list of products produced
by the company, and improving the operation of the #3 vacuum tower, a key
processing unit in the refinery.
D. Environmental Im.a&t
10.         The additional emissions caused by the increase in production will
not add to pollution since they will be dealt with by existing waste handling
facilities of the works which have been found to be of high quality, modern
design and capable of handling the effluents satisfactorily. On a broader
level, the MTBE project will cut down on air pollution in the country, as the
amount of lead in Polish gasoline is reduced.
E. Project Cost and Finaningj
11.         As summarized below, the total financing required for the project
is estimated to be US$34.3 milllon equivalent, of which US$16.6 million would
be foreign exchange and the balance would be local costs.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 3 of 4
Plock Project - Cagi&al Cost Estimate
(US$ million equivalent)
SA;1  Foreain   Total          of ACE
Base Cost (September 1989 prices)      14.1     12.4     26.5         100
Physical contingencies                  1.4      1.2      2.6          10
Price escalation                       1.6       1.5     -Li           11
Total project cost                     17.1     15.1     32.2
Increase in working capital             0.6      0.5      1.1
Interest during construction             -      -1.      -1.O
Total Financing Required                        MA.      IL.A
12.         The following financing plan has been developed jointly with the
enterprise on the assumptions that: (i) the enterprise's own funds would be
provided to finance about US$17.8 million, representing all of the local
project cost, and the proceeds of the World Bank loan would be made available
to the enterprise through NBP for all of the foreign expenditure.
Plock Proiect - Proposed Financina Plan
(USS million equivalent)
:A          Forei    Total     of total
Internal Funds                         17.8       -     17.8          52
Long Term Loans
- World Bank                             -      16.6    16.6         48
- Polish Banks                           -  ,  -         .--
Total Financing Required
F.  Financial and Economic Projections
13.         Key figures and ratios from these projections are presented in the
following table.



- 60 -
ANNMEX 4- 2
Page 4 of 4
Plogk Prgoegt - Sumary of Proiected Financial Data
(est)
Sales revenue (million US$)         630.1  652.4  666.6  710.8  738.7
Net profit (million US$)             24.2   26.1   26.1   27.7   29,2
Net Income/Sales (X)                  7       7      8      8       8
Debt service coverage ratio ^/      n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a
Current ratio                       1.8    2.1    2.4    2.6    2.9
Long-term debt:equity               n/a   1:99    5:95  6:94   4:96
J/    At present the company has virtually no long-term debt.  Projected cash-
flow after service of the proposed World Bank sub-loan begins will be
many times total debt service.
14.         These figures show that future financial performance should be
satisfactory. Based on projections with and without the project, the
base-case financial rate of return for the polypropylene subproject is 19X
while that for KTBE is 35X. After adjusting to economic values, the base-case
economic rate of return is 491 for polypropylene and 281 for MTBE.
15.         The project will be generating net foreign exchange earnings in
its second year of operation, and cumulative net foreign exchange earnings
generated by the project during its first four years of operation will have
exceeded the foreign currency component of the project by 1995.



- 61 -
ANNE 4-3
Page 1 of 5
POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPNNT PRJECT
Pulawv Melamine. Uapriolactam andi Urea Suboroiects
A. Introdution
1.          The Pulawy Nitrogen Works (ZAP) 2/ sub-project is intended to
restore the capacity of the melamine plant to its achievable value of 28,000
tpy from the current level of 12,000 tpy caused by seriously deteriorated
equipment. Also, it would increase caprolactam output from current levels of
25,000 tpy to 36,000 tpy (while simultaneously increasing production of
cyclohexanone which is a precursor for caprolactam, and of ammonium sulfat:
which is a by-product), and increase total urea output from 540,000 tpy now to
709,000 tpy when the project is complete. Much of the increased output of
melamine, caprolactam, cyclohexanone and ammonium sulfate will be exported.
2.          ZAP was established in 1961 as a state enterprise for the
production of nitrogen fertilizers. Construction work started in 1963, and
the first nitrogen plants producing urea were put on stream in 1966-69. A
second set of plants producing ammonium nitrate were built at the same time
coming on stream in 1967-68. From 1973-1977, two additional facilities were
added to produce caprolactam and melamine broadening the range of ZAP's
products by making use of the process streams in the nitrogen works and by
adding additional units as needed. Western technology was used in all the
process units except those related to caprolactam which uses processes
developed in Poland. ZAP is currently operating below the achievable
capacities due mostly to the old age of the equipment and poor maintenance due
in turn to the inability to obtain needed spare parts from the West for the
specialized equipment.
B.  Markets
1. Nfelamine.
3.          Local demand for melamine is from a large variety of users who
produce resins, cements, molding powders, laminated sheets and decorative
coverings. Consumption of molamine in Poland has fluctuated up and down
around 6,000 tpy for the past ten years. Production peaked at 19,300 tons in
1988, but is now only a little over 20,000 tpy. World demand for melamine is
growing after a period of stagnation, due to the special suitability of
melanin. for hard wearing applications such as furniture facings, in
non-ceramic dinnerware and as a fire retardant.
4.          Polish exports of melamin. have been erratic, being as high as
9,000/tons in 1984, dropping to 4,100 tons in 1986 and exceeding 13,000 tons
In 1988. The main destinations have been West Germany, Austria, Yugoslavia,
Japan and the Netherlands. The mAin applications are for resins used in
j'   Zaklady Azotowe "Pulawy"



- 62 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 2 of 5
automobile paints and for molding compounds. There are eight main foreign
customers for ZAP melamine now who received the 6,000 ton exported in 1988.
There should be no difficulties in increasing exports to 18,000 tpy.
5.          Marketing of melamine is done directly by ZAP itself for local
sales, with the customers taking delivery from the plant warehouse. Foreign
sales are handled by Ciech which has a well developed network of agents and
direct customers in the main markets for all types of resin and plastics.
2.  arolactam
6.          Local use of caprolactam is similar to that in world markets,
namely the greatest proportion going to nylon fiber, with lesser amounts to
other nylon products like films, and molding resins. World demand for
caprolactam is presently softening in line with the slight excess of capacity
for all resins and their precursors, and medium term demand is rising steadily
because of new non-fiber applications for nylons, particularly in the
engineering plastic applications. The outlook is for demand to increase
steadily at a rate of 2.5 - 3X per year well into the 1990s which would mean
increasing tightness in the market as supply is limited.
7.          Polish exports of caprolactam have fallen from a peak of nearly
12,000 tons in 1983 to about 4,000 tons for each of the past five years, with
almost all of them going to the Far East. Strong local demand has curtailed
the availability of supplies for exports. A major customer in Taiwan, and
another in Korea account for most of the Asian exports, with the rest going to
European dealers. Polist exports now account for only 31 of the imports to
Taiwan and even less of the global supply. There should be little difficulty
therefore to place the quantities targeted for exports.
3.  2s1loheaDna
8.          Cyclohexanone is produced as a necessary precursor to caprolactam.
Small quantities in excess of the needs of the two plants are produced for
export to earn foreign exchange to pay for necessary imports for the plants.
Most is sold to dealers in Germany, Holland and France, and a small amount
locally to Tarnow. The exports are handled entirely by Ciech which sells
easily whatever quantities it is able to obtain and sees no difficulty in
selling the expected exports from ZAP in the future which could reach 10,000
tpy.
4. MM,gnM Sulfate
9.          Ammonium sulfate is co-produced with caprolactam, as an inevitable
by-product of the process which requires the introduction of sulfuric acid as
one of the process staps. ZAP and Tarnow are the only producers in Poland of
any note, and they rely on Ciech to dispose of more than half of their output
as exports.



- 63 -
ANX4-3
Page 3 of 5
10.        Urea is produced by ZAP and is used in Poland where 902 is
consumed mostly as a fertilizer with the rest going to animal feeds, the
production of urea-based resins, and as the feedstock to the ZAP melamine
plant. A growing amount of the total national production of some 800,000 tpy
is exported annually mostly from a plant at Police on the Baltic Sea (30-
40,000 tpy recently from ZAP). These marginal exports are making use of the
favorable market conditions.
11.        The proposed project will assist greatly in relieving the acute
shortages of fertilizer in Poland.
C. The Proiect
12.        The project's primary objective is the revamping of the melamine
and caprolactam plants to restore them to their achievable capacities. It
will also deal with the revamping of the urea plant to increase urea
availability as feed stock to the melamine plant and also as the most
economical way of ensuring the availability of energy to operate the rebuilt
melamine and caprolactam plants. Due to the intricate interconnections
typical of a major chemical complex like ZAP, energy supplies and demands are
delicately balanced so as to minimize the need for external energy sources.
When these balances are upset by plant failures or deterioration, energy
availability often becomes the limiting factor.
D. Eiinromental Zgat
13.        The environmental impact of the project will be very positive as
it will clear up serious pollution now occurring at ZAP due to the
deteriorated condition of the existing plants. As a part of the project, ZAP
will also carry out an environmental and safety study to analyze current and
expected sources of emissions, and to identify ways of treating them to reduce
pollution.
E. Pro1ect Cost and Financing
14.        As summarized below, the total financing required for the project
is estimated to be US$92.3 million equivalent, of which US$51 million would be
foreign exchange and the balance local costs.



- 64 -
NNX4-3
Page 4 of 5
Pulawv Project - Canital Cost Estimate
(US$ million equivalent)
Logs.   Forezgn   Total      X of BCE
Base Cost (September 1989 prices)      30.7     37.4      68.1        100
Physical contingencies                  3.1      3.7       6.8         10
Price escalation                        4.0     4.6       .6           13
Total project cost                     37.8     45.7      83.5
Increase in working capital             1.3      0.8       2.1
Interest during construction            3.3       647
Total Financing Required               42.3     51.0      93.3
15.         The following financing plan has been developed jointly with the
enterprise:
Pulawv Project - ProDosed Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Local   Foreign   Total      Z of total
Internal Funds                         20.5      2.0    30.0          24
Long Term Loans
- World Bank                             -      49.0    49.0          53
- Polish Banks                         13.3       -     13.3          20
- Short Term Loan for
Working Capital                      2.9-              2.9          3
Total Financing Required               423      51.0    93.3         100
F. Financial and Economic Proiections
16.         Key figures and ratios from these projections are presented in the
following table.
Pulawv Proiect - SummarM of Projected Financial Data
12li  1990   1991   1992   1923   1994
(est)
Sales revenue (million US$)      50.7   53.4   57.5   63.3   91.5  107.4
Net profit (million USS)          4.5    5.2    7.1    9.9   18.6   23.2
Net Income/Sales (X)             15     16     20     26      25     28
Debt service coverage ratio       7.2    8.9    n/a    2.9    1.9    2.2
Curreni. ratio                    1.6    1.5    1.3    1.0    1.3    1.6
Long-term debt:equity            2:98  14:86  45:55  63:37  61:39  56:44
A/    At present the company has virtually no long-term debt



- 65 -
ANNE 4-3
Page 5 of 5
17.         These figures show that future financial performance should be
satisfactory. Based on projections with and without the project, the base
case financial rate of return is 351. After adjusting to economic values, the
base case economic rate of return is 39X
18.         The project will generate net foreign exchange earnings in its
first year of operation (1991), and the cumulative net foreign exchange
earnings during its first four years of operation will exceed the foreign
exchange component of the investment cost thus complying with the eligibility
criterion.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 1 of 4
POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Wieruszow Particleboard Plant Modernization Subproiect
A.  Introduction
1.          The Wieruszow Particleboard Plant sub-project includes an upgrade
of the company's equipment in order to: (i) allow total particleboard
production to increase from 200,000 cubic meters annually to 230,000 cubic
meters (all of the increased production would be exported); add facilities for
the production of up to 3 million square meters of veneered chipboard
annually; (iii) reduce raw material and energy consumption; and (iv) improve
product quality.
2.          The company was established in 1977 when a new plant was
constructed with a single line for particleboard production, and additional
facilities for laminAting a part of the production for wall panelling and
furniture. The equipment is modern in most respects, but the plant lacks
technological refinements which have been developed in the industry over the
past 10 years. The plant is relatively large by international standards, and
is one of the two largest particleboard plants in Poland, accounting for about
161 of total domestic production.
3.          The company is in sound financial condition, with a current
ratio in excess of 1.6, and long-term debt representing a very low (2X)
proportion of total capitalization.
B.  Narkets
4.          Particleboard production in Poland, as elsewhere, began only in
the early 1960s. Demand grew relatively rapidly through the 1970s, at an
annual average rate of around 7X, but with the economic difficulties which
accompanied the events of the early 1980s, consumption has more-or-less
stabilized for the past several years at about 1.2 million cubic meters
annually.
5.          World production of particleboard grew rapidly through the 1970's
but has subsequently stabilized to around 42-44 million cubic meters annually.
One-half of all particleboard (about 23 million cubic meters annually) is
produced and consumed in Europe, of which about 18 million cubic meters in
Western Europe. Most of the European trade in particleboard is between the
countries of Europe. Poland is a significant producer in the region,
accounting for about 61 of European production of particleboard, but the
80,000 cubic meters of exports to the region in 1986 represented less than 21
of total regional trade in this commodity.
6.          Lack of supply and growing domestic demand are the major reasons
why Poland has been a limited factor in international markets: there are no
quality or other reasons which would preclude expansion. The country is an
efficient producer (large plants by international standards, well run, and
with relatively low wood and labor costs), and has already demonstrated that



- 67 _
ANNEX 4-4
Page 2 of 4
it can readily market surplus particleboard production in Western Europe.
Provided quality standards can be maintained (and the project will ensure
this) there is every reason to suppose that exports from Poland could grow to
several hundred thousand cubic meters annually, ensuring a market for the
additional 30,000 cubic meters from Wieruszow.
C. The Prosjec
7.          The project at Wieruszow consists of: (i) improvements to the wood
particle preparation line including rebuilding of chip screens, and addition
of a new chip drying line including automated moisture measurement; (ii)
addition of facilities for i neering chipboard; (iii) installation of a new
primary press; (iii) improvements to the operation and control of the main
press; (iv) rebuilding the sanding machines; and (v) addition of other
equipment to improve transportation, packing, laminate impregnation, etc.
Increased production (by about 16X, from 200,000 cu m per year to 230,000 cu m
per yr) would be achieved primarily through the addition of the new chippers,
as this is the current production bottleneck.
8.          The project will require modest increases in the supply of major
raw materials (wood and urea formaldehyde glue), ane in the supply of fuel-oil
and electrical power. Wieruszow has determined that it will be able to obtain
the necessary additional volumes of wood from existing suppliers, within the
current collection radius of about 120/km. Other materials are available in
Poland.
D. Elronmental 1mDset
9.          Particleboard production involves the use of formaldehyde resins
which can lead to an in-plant environmental hazard. The Uieruszow plant has
employed normal industry practice to safeguard against this hazard and present
operations are satisfactory. The proposed project will have no impact in this
area, but through the introduction of improved control, it will ensure that
essentially all of the plant's product will meet the stringent European
standards for free formaldehyde content.
E. Project Cost Bnd Financing
10.         As summarized below, the total financing required for the project
is estimated to be US$17.4 million equivalent, of which US$9.5 milllon would
be foreLgn exchange and the balance local costs.



- 68 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 3 of 4
Wieruszow Project - Capital Cost Estimate
(US$ million equivalent)
Local   Foreign   Total     X of BCE
Base Cost (September 1989 prices)       3.2      6.0      9.2        100
Physical contingencies                 0.3       0.6      0.9         10
Price escalation                       -.L      .Q.1 5    0.A          9
Total project cost                      3.8      7.1     10.9
Increase in working capital             3.8      1.5      5.3
Interest during construction           0           9      1.1
Total Financing Required                7       , 9 5    17.4
F. Finagcing PAla
11.  The following financing plan has been developed jointly with the
enterprise as follows:
wieruszow Proiect - Proposed Financine Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Local   Foreign   Total     X of total
Internal Funds                          3.3      1.5     4.8         28
Long Term Loans
- World Bank                                     7.0     7.0         40
- Polish Banks                         4.6     J.0Q    5.6           3
Total Financing Required              , 7Z17.4                      122
G. FnnaladEconomic Proisetions
12.         Detailed financial projections have been made and are included in
the subproject appraisal report. Key figures and ratios from these
projections are presented in the following table.
Aierus2ow Project - Summary of Projected Financial Data
ian   19   iaaL  19    1221   19
(est)
Sales revenu (million US$)      16.7  16.5  23.3  27.7   28.9  30.2
Net profit (million US$)         3.2    2.9    8.0    8.4    8.9    9.2
Not Income/Sales (X)            19      18     34     30     26     28
Debt service coverage ratio       na     na      na    4.1    3.5    3.7
Current ratio                    1.8    2.1    2.2    2.8    3.0    3.6
Long-term debt:equity          0:100  41:59  36:64  23:77  14:86   6:94
13.         These figures show that the future financial performance should be



- 69 -
ANNEX A44
Page 4 of 4
satisfactory. Based on projections with and without the project, the base
case financial rate of return is 351. After adjusting to economic values, the
base case economic rate of return is 41X. These rates are also satisfactory.
14.  The project will generate net foreign exchange earnings in its first
year of operation, and cumulative foreign additional foreign exchange earnings
will have exceeded foreign exchange costs by the end of the third year of
operation.



- 70 -
ANX4-5
Page 1 of 3
POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Zielona Gora Furniture Subnroject
A.  In=aductio
1.          The Zielona Gora Furniture Factory (Zielonogorskie Fabryki Nebli,
Zielona Gora) is adding a chair production line to its furniture factory in
Zielona Gora with a capacity for the production of up to 200,000 chairs
annually. This will allow the company to produce complete packages of its
country-style dining arrangements rather than sub-contracting for chair supply
as at present.
2.          The company operates a number of different manufacturing
facilities in the vicinity of Zielona Gora, each specializing in certain
specific furniture-making operations. The total value of production is of the
order of US$25 million annually, of which about one-third is exported to
western European markets.   The main product is a 'country kitchen' table and
bench set, which currently require chair purchases (2-3 per grouping) from
external suppliers in order to complete the set. The company also produces
kitchen and other lines of cabinet furniture.
3.          The company is in a sound financial condition.  The current ratio
of 2.4 is satisfactory, and long-term debt represents a relatively low (16X)
proportion of total capitalization.
B. karkets
4.          Total chair production in Poland is of the order of 5 million
units annually, most of which are produced in 5 important companies. Like
most types of furniture, demand is considerably in excess of supply. While
Zielona Gora has been focusing on export markets, it has been selling around
10,000 of its specialty bench corner units domestically. Each unit consists
of a corner bench and table, to which the purchaser will normally add 2-3
chairs, purchased from a domestic chair producer, to complete the grouping.
This implies a domestic demand for chairs to be sold in conjunction with these
units of around 25,000 chairs annually (based on an average of 2.5 chairs per
unit).
5.          Given the total demand, and the captive demand of chairs
associated with bench units, the domestic sales projected under the project of
25,000 pieces in 1992, rising to 50,000 pieces by 1994, is reasonable. With
the flexibility of the proposed line to produce a wide variety of chair types,
the domestic market provides a comfortable security in the event of
short-falls in projected export sales.
6.          The export market projected under the project is 75,000 pieces in
1992, rising to 150,000 pieces in 1994. Given the rapid growth of the demand
for Polish kitchen corner units, it seem  likely that all of this proposod
supply will be able to be sold in the associated 'captive' demand for chairs.



_ 71 -
ANNE 4-5
Page 2 of 3
With the flexibility of the line to competitively produce other types of chair
should the pattern of demand change, there can be little doubt that these
export projections will be met.
C. The Proiect
7.          The project at Zielona Gora will lead to the production of 200,000
chairs annually through the installation of a new line for this purpose. A
suitable building is available at the proposed factory site. Sawnwood for
chair production will be available from the company's own sawmill, which has
adequate dry kiln capacity to produce the grades of wood needed for
high-quality furniture. The new project will also require increases in the
supply of other major raw materials (plywood, fabric and veneer) but in
relatively modest quantities compared with the availability of these materials
in Poland, and the company's present consumption for other products. Energy
consumption will also increase, but only marginally. No problem is envisaged
getting additional supplies of these materials from current suppliers.
D. Prolject Cost and FLnancing
8.         As summarized below, the total financing required for the project
is estimated to be US$14.1 million equivalent, of vhich US$6.7 million is
foreign exchange.
Zielona CorA Prolect - Canital Cost Est:imate
(US$ million equivalent)
Local   Foreiga   Total     X of BCE
Base Cost (September 1989 prices)      3.3      5.1      8.4        100
Physical contingencies                 0.3      0.5      0.8         10
Price escalation                      All       0.       0.1         11
Total project cost                     3.9      6.2     10.1
Increase in working capital            2.2      0.0      2.2
Interest during construction
Total Financing Requlred               7.        6.
9.         The following financing plan has been developed jointly with the
enterprise:
Zielona Gora Proiect - Proposed Finaing Eln
(US$ million equLvalent)
1A9    EmLLZD  Total       X gf total
Internal Funds                         3.2      0.0     3.2         23
Long Term Loans
- World Bank                            -       6.7     6.7         4
- Polish Banks                         4.2    4..:.    -.24        .21
Total Financing Required              jZ _J.1    14 14             1



- 72 -
ANNEX 4.5
Page 3 of 3
E. Financial and Economic Proiections
10.         Key figures and ratios from the financial projections prepared for
the project are presented in the following table:
Zielona Gora Prolect - Summarv of Projected Financial Data
1i9    1990   1211   1922   1993   1294
(est)
Sales revenue (million US$)      25.2   26.4   31.8   35.2   38.9   40.6
Net profit (million US$)         11.7   12.4   14.5   14.1   15.6   17.1
Net Income/Sales (X)             46     47      46     40     40      42
Debt service coverage ratio        na     na      na    3.8    3.5    4.1
Current ratio                     4.6    8.1    6.5    7.7    9.3   10.8
Long-term debt:equity           0:100  13:87  21:79  13:87   7:93   3:97
I1.         These figures how that future financial performance should be
satisfactory. Based on projections with and without the project, the base
case financial rate of return is 261. After adjusting to economic values, the
base case economic rate of return is 211. These rates are also satisfactory.
12.         The project will begin generating net 9oreign exchange earnings in
1992, the year of project completion. At full production, exports to the west
(net of hard currency production costs) will amount to US$13.3 million
annually, compared with US$8.0 million at present. Net additional export
earnings in the first four years after project completion will exceed the
foreign exchange cost of the project.



- 73 -
Page I of 3
POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Avia Machine Tools Plant Subproject
A. Introductlon
1.          The AVIA Machine Tool sub-project includes the construction of
some new buildings, the replacement of some existing machines, the addition of
new machines and the reorganization of some operations, in order to ald in the
introduction of some new products and improvements to others. In particular,
the project would allow an expansion in the export of tool shop milling
machines and ball-screw transmissions to Western countries.
2.          AVIA was established as a machine tool company in 1960, as a
successor to a much older aeronautical engineering company. The company is
mainly specialized in producing tool room milling machines (both
conventionally and numerically controlled), and ball screw transmissions. The
company also has several new machine tools under development.
3.          The company's financial position is sound, with a current ratio of
over 3, and with long-term debt representing a low (11) proportion of total
capitalization.
B. Markets
4.          Domestic consumption of machine tools in Poland has remained
fairly consistent at around US$6-7 per capita which is comparable with that of
Spaia and Mexico, about twice that of Brazil, about 602 of that of Austria and
far below that of the Western industrialized countries. (US$36 for ERG, US$30
for Japan and US$24 for the USA). Given the extent of the engineering
industry in Poland, and the need to modernize and renovate it, domestic
consumption is low. AVIA's own ambitions with respect to the domestic market
are relatively modest. There will be a slight reduction in the overall number
of machines (from 155 units annually to 146 units); but an increase in the
proportion of these machines which are numerically controlled.
5.          AVIA currently exports about 60X of its output in terms of volume,
and about 521 in terms of value to convertible currency countries. With the
help of the specialized trading company METAIE$PORT, AVIA has consistently
promoted sales to these markets and in the past, prior to the application of
economic sanctions against Poland, exported a substantial number of milling
machines to the United States.
6.          Given first, Poland's previous success and continuing presence in
these markets, second, the relatively small objective in terms of market
penetration, and third, AVIA's competitiveness in terms of quality and price,
the export market objectives of the project are judged reasonable.
C. Ths Projoct
7.          The project at AVIA consists of: (i) improvements to the plant



- 74 -
AMUE 4- 6
Page 2 of 3
layout and material/product flows leading to more efficient production
patterns; (ii) the utilization of a greater proportion of modern NC machines
to improve quality; (iii) the introduction of a computer-based management
information and control system to improve stock control and shorten the
manufacturing cycle; and (iv) the provision of technical assistance for
product development and marketing. The increase in production would raise the
number of machines from 365 to 446 units each year. A total of 50 new
machines will be purchased while 81 machines will be rendered obsolete and
sold. The new machines include 19 NC machines, of which 6 are machining
centers.
D. Project Cost and Financinz
8.          The total financing required for the project is estimated to be
US$24.0 million equivalent, of which US$14.7 million would be foreign exchange
and the balance local costs.
AVIA Proiect - Canital Cost Estimate
(US$ million equivalent)
Local   Forein   ITal       X of BCE
Base Cost (September 1989 prices)       6.0     10.8     16.8         100
Physical contingencies                  0.6      1.1      1.7          10
Price escalation                        0.4     _O.8      .2L           7
Total project cost                      7.0     12.6     19.6
Increase in working capital             1.6      0.4      2.0
Interest during construction            .71    .L7      -LA
Total Financing Required                9.3     Ah.      Z4.
9.          The following financing plan has been developed jointly with the
enterprise:
AVIA Project - Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Loual   Foreign  ZToal      , of total
Internal Funds                          3.8      2.7     6.5          27
Long Term Loans
- World Bank                                    12.0    12.0         50
- Polish Banks                        5.5_ -'5
Total Financing Required                        JL ZZ .2             122
E.  Financial and Economic Prolections
10.         Key figures and ratios from these projections are presented in the
following table.



- 75 -
ANX4-6
Page 3 of 3
AVIA Project - Summary of Proiected Financial Data
1989   1990   1221   1922   1993    U4
(eat)
Sales revenue (million US$)      7.0    6.7   10.2   14.1   17.5   18.3
Net profit (million US$)          2.7    2.2    2.8    3.9    6.4    7.2
Net Income/Sales (X)            41      36     30     30     39      42
Debt service coverage ratio       na      na     na    4.6    5.6    6.7
Current ratio                     3.3    3.2    5.8    3.0    3.8    4.6
Long-term debt:equity          45:55  59:41  62:38  50:50  36:74  24:76
11.         These figures show that future financial performance should be
satisfactory, although attention must be given to the rather high proportion
of debt in the financial structure of the company. While these figures to
some extent reflect that this is a rather big project in terms of the size of
the company, they also are influevn.ed by the fact that as with many companies
in Poland, the book value of AVIA's assets (and thus also its equity) is
undervalued. The Government has announced plans for major revaluations and
with this prospect in view, and ;all other financial indicators are
satisfactory, no special action appears to be required. Based on projections
with and without the project, the base case financial rate of return is 22X.
After adjusting to economic values, the base case economics rate of return is
21X.
12.         The project will be generating net foreign exchange earniLgs in
1991, the year of project completion. Cumulative foreign exchange earnings
will surpass foreign exchange costs during the third year of operation.



- 76 -
ANNEX 4-7
Page 1 of 3
POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
kafamet Machine Tool Plant Modernization SubDroiect
A. Introduction
1.          The Rafamet Machine Tool Plant subproject includes an upgrade of
the company's foundry equipment and the replacement of a number of existing
machines in order to aid in the introduction of new products and improvements
to existing ones. The project would allow an expansion in the export of the
company's products to Western countries.
2.          Rafamet was established in Kuznia Raciborska in 1945, as a
successor to a lor.g-established Polish engineering company. The company is
now specialized in producing very heavy machine tools, including those for
machining railway wheel sets, and large size universal vertical turning and
boring.  Rafamet one of the largest and most successful machine tal companies
in Poland, is well know internationally.
3.          The company's financial position is sound:  it has a current ratio
of over 3, and long-term debt represents only 7X proportion of total
capitalization.
B. Harkets
4.          Domestic consumption of machine tools in Poland is around US$6-7
per capita, about that of Spain and Mexico, twice that of Brazil, 60X that of
.Austria and far below that of the Western industrialization countries. (US$36
for FRG, US$30 for Japan and US$24 for the USA). Given the extent of the
engineering industry in Poland, and the need to modernize and renovate it,
domestic consumption is low and there are serious current supply shortages.
Domestic demand for machine tools will grow rapidly and the relatively modest
increase in domestic sales anticipated by Rafamet (4.46 annually) should be
achievable.
5.          Rafamet currently exports 78X of its output - 68X is to COMECON
countries and 101 to the West. One of the principal objectives of the project
is to increase this proportion to 251. Modest increases in exports to COMECON
are also expected, but in these markets the principal objective is to keep
supplying at approximately the same level as today For railway equipment,
Rafamet hopes to increase its sales to the West from two units to eight units
annually. The company is one of the main producers of these specialized
machines internationally, and deliveries are presently constrained by the
company's lack of capacity. The modest increase in sales to this market
should be achieved without difficulty.
6.          The demand for heavy, general purpose machine tools, is rather
flat, and there is more competition, but Rafamet is competitive in price and
quality. The company expects its exports in the KC series of heavy turning
and boring mills to increase from 4 to 21 untts annually after 1992. While



- 77 -
ANNEX 4-7
Page 2 of 3
this is a major increase for Rafamet, it still represents a very small
proportion of the total demand for equipment of this type and is a reasonable
marketing objective. Rafamet would continue, as at present, to manage its own
export sales.
C. The Proiect
7.          The project at Refamet consists of: (i) improvements to the
foundry leading to better molten metal quality and uniformity, and better
molds and covers; (ii) the utilization of a more modern NC machine to improve
quality; (iii) the introduction of a computer-based management information and
control system to improve stock control and shorten the manufacturing cycle.
This would raise the production of machines from 289 to 334 units each year
but more significantly, would increase the average value of each machine.
There would be no change in the number of staff. Implementation will be
handled by a Project Implementation Team (PIT) formed within the plant to
direct all aspects of the project.
D. Proiect Cost and Financing
8.          As summarized below, the total financing required for the project
is estimated to be US$23.1 million equivalent, of which US$14.9 million is
foreign exchange.
Rafamet Project - CaRital Cost Estimate
(US$ million equivalent)
Local   Foreign   Total      X of BCE
Base Cost (September 1989 prices)       5.2     11.0      16.2        100
Physical contingencies                  0.5      1.1       1.6         10
Price escalation                        0.3      11.3                   8
Total project cost                      6.0     13.1      19.1
Increase in working capital             1.5      0.2       1.7
Interest during construction            0.7      1.5
Total Financing Required                8.2     ,4        23
9.          The following financing plan has been developed jointly with the
enterprise:
Rafamet Project - Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Loal   Egrgian   Total       X of total
Internal Funds                          3.1      0.2      3.3         14
Long Term Loans
- World Bank                                    14.7    14.7          64
- Polish Banks                                   --      5 .1        _2
Total Financing Required               _JLZ              Z=          mg



- 78 -
ANNEX 4-7
Page 3 of 3
E. Financial and Economic Protections
10.         Key figures and ratios from the financial projections prepared for
the project are presented in the following table:
Rafamet Project - Summary of Proiected Financial Data
9   I=    I9         199    1993   1994
(est)
Sales revenue (million US$)      16.9   19.9   22.1   26.8   30.8   32.2
Net profit (million US$)          9.4   11.8    9.7   14.2   18.3   19.6
Net Income/Sales (Z)             56     59      44     53      59     61
Debt service coverage ratio        na     na    5.3    7.5    3.5    3.8
Current ratio                     4.7    5.8    7.3    5.3    6.6    8.1
Long-term debt:equity           0:100  10:90  30:70  33:67  23:77  16:84
11.         These figures how that future financial performance should be
satisfactory. Based on projections with and without the project, the base
case financial rate of return is 231. After adjusting to economic values, the
base case economic rate of return is 281. These rates are also satisfactory.
12.         The project will begin generating net foreign exchange earnings in
1992, the year of project completion. At full production, exports to the west
(net of hard currency production costs) will amount to US$7.4 million
annually, compared with US$2.1 million at present. Net additional export
earnings in the first four years after project completion will exceed the
foreign exchange cost of the project.



- 79 -
ANNEX 4-8
Page 1 of 6
POLND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVEWLOPM _T PRO
Technical Assistance to Strengthen the Particigating Bank's Capabilities
Outline for Banking d=n2ment Training Seminar
I.  PLAING AND PERFORNANCE
1. Bank Central Office and Branch Organization
1.1   Central Office: bank coordination and steering
1.1.1   Corporate customer business
1.1.1.1 Analysis/informing
1.1.1.2 Result/target planning
1.1.1.3 Market/basic research
1.1.1.4 Marketing planning
1.1.2  Private Customer Business
1.1.2.1 Analysis/information
1.1.2.2 Result/target planning
1.1.2.3 Market/basic research
1.1.2.4 Marketing planning
1.1.3  International Business
1.1.3.1 Advising and serving
1.1.3.2 Product/payments/foreign trade finance
1.1.4   Loan and Risk Monitoring
1.1.5  Accounting and Planning
1.1.5.1 Accounting
1.1.5.2 Businass management
1.1.5.3 Information system/planning
1.1.5.4 Branch controlling
1.1.6  Funding
1.1.7  Organization/EDP
1.1.7.1 EDP development
1.1.7.2 User/application servicing
1.1.7.3 EDP technology



- 80 -
ANNEX 4-8
Page 2 of 6
1.1.8   Personnel and employee benefits
1.1.8.1 Management staff/bank-wide
1.1.8.2 Personnel policy
1.1.8.3 Personnel administration
1.1.8.4 Training
1.1.9   Law and Taxation
1.1.10 Auditing
1.1.11 Other Central Office departments
1.1.11.1 Portfolio investment
1.1.11.2 Investment and trading
1.1.11.3 Foreign exchange dealing
1.1.11.4 Economics
1.1.11.5 Investment banking
1.1.12 Functions common to all Central Office departments
1.1.12.1 Principles and procedures/general matters/
analysis
1.1.12.2 Cost control
1.1.12.3 Organization/EDP
1.1.12.4 Personnel
1.1.12.5 Planning and servicing
1.1.12.6 Training and further training
1.2   Branches
1.2.1   Organization of business/internal departments at branches
1.2.2   "Profit centre" concept
1.3   Cooperation between Central Office and branches
1.3.1   Harketing strategies
1.3.2   Develop.aent and result planning
1.3.3   Product and pricing policy
2. Diversification of Banking Business
2.1   Assets/liabilities-side business
2.1.1   Liabilities-side business (procurement of funds)
2.1.2   Assets-side business       (application of funds)
2.2   Services business



- 81 -
ANNEX 4-8
Page 3 of 6
2.2.1   Payment business
2.2.2   Securities transactions
2.2.3   Counselling
3. Management Information Systems
3.1   Elements of MIS
3.1.1   Branch information system
3.1.2   Divisional information system
3.1.3   Top management information system
3.2  Classification criteria for KIS data
3.2.1   Region
3.2.2   Customer group
3.2.3   Customer sector
3.2.4   Product
3.3   Steering and control parameters
3.3.1   Volume
3.3.2   Terms and conditions
3.3.3   Income from services business
3.3.4   Personnel and material costs
3.4  Data procurement conditions
3.4.1   "As recent as possible"
3.4.2   User-oriented steering of reporting procedure
3.4.3   Greater informative value than development and
operating costs
3.5   Targets
3.5.1   Establishment of early varning system by implementing
standards comparative criteria
3.5.2   Collection of basic data for forecasting and planning
3.5.3   Collection of basic data for development and analysis
of internal and external strategies



-82 -
AMNE 4-8
Page 4 of 6
II. CREDIT ADMINISTRATION AND AN&AYSIS
1. Credit Demand and Credit Supply
1.1  Nature of the loan
1.2   Economic agents' borrowing requirements
1.3  Enterprises' borrowing requirements
1.4 Households' borrowing requirements
1.5  Public-sector borrowing requirements
1.6   Supply of credit from credit markets
2. Settlement of a Loan Transaction
2.1   Loan request and loan application
2.2   Examination of loan request
2.3 Examination of borrowing capacity
2.4 Examination of creditworthiness
2.5  Credit security
2.6  Loan approval
2.7 Conclusion and content of loan agreement
2.8  Provision of loan
2.9   Loan monitoring
3. Credit Security
3.1  Guarantee
3.1.1  Nature of guarantee
3.1.2  Types of guarantee
3.1.3   Guarantee in lending practice
3.1.4   Guarantee-type credit security
3.2  Assignation as security for credit
3.2.1  Nature of assignation
3.2.2  Types of assignation
3.2.3  Assignation as security for credit in lending practice
3.3  Pledges and similar charges
3.3.1  Nature of pledge
3.3.2  Types of pledge
3.3.3  Realization of pledged property
3.3.4  Pledge in lendlng practice
3.4   Ownership transfer as security for credit
3.4.1  Nature of ownership transfer as security for credit
3.4.2  Ownership trawsfer in lending practice
3.4.3  Realization of property subject to ownership trarsfer



- 83 -
NMEN2 4-8
Page 5 of 6
3.4.4   Risks in ownership transfer
3.5   Mortgage Rights
4. Types of Loans
4.1   Short-term loans
4.1.1   Overdraft
4.1.2   Lombard facility
4.1.3   Discount
4.1.4   Acceptance credit
4.1.5   Guarantee
4.2   Medium and long-term loans
4.2.1   Installment loan
4.2.2 Investment loan to companies and the self-employed
5. Defaulted Loans
5.1   Measures to avoid danger to loans
5.2   Measures in the event of defaulted loans
5.3 Resalization/distraint measures
6.  Special Forms of Financing
6.1   Leasing
6.2   Factoring
7. Syndication of Loans
7.1   Syndication
7.2   Placement
7.3  Underwriting
7.4   Security
7.5  Terms and conditions
7.5.1  Maturity
7.5.2   Drawdown period
7.5.3   Interest rate
7.5.4   Commissions
7.5.5   Fees



- 84 -
ANNEX 48
Page 6 of 6
III. ASSET AND LIABILITY MANAGEMENT
1. Capital
1.1   Concept of capital
1.2   Capital and risk
1.3   Capital and profitability
1.4 Capital requirements
1.5  Capital and regulation
1.6 Loan capital
2. Liquidity and the Management of Risk
2.1   Funding risk
2.2   Interest rate risk
3. International Banking
3.1  The Background to asset and liability management
3.2   Sources of risk in international finance
3.2.1   Credit risk and sovereign risk
3.2.2   Liquidity risk
3.2.3   Interest rate and price risk
3.2.4   Exchange rate risk
3.2.5   Interest rate and exchange rate volatility
4. The Asset and Liability Management Function (AIR): development and
strategy
4.1   The need for a dedicated ALM function
4.2   Requirements of an effective AIM function
4.3  Universal concepts, techniques and bank-specific factors
4.3.1  Relevant financial markets
4.3.2   Regulations
4.3.3   Taz/accounting
4.3.4  Business structure
4.4   External information
5. Off-Balance Shaet Activity
5.1  Types of off-balance sheet business
5.2 Reasons for the growth of off-balance sheet banking
6.  The Tools of Interest Rate Risk Management:  Modelling and Simulation



- 85 -
ANNE 4.9
POL4ND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELPNT PROJECT
Tenms of Reference for a Bank Sunervision Adviso
1.          This individual should have a substantial amount of practical
experience and credibility in the area of bank supervision. He/she should be
an excellent communicator and have the ability to support recommendations with
their own experience and examples. The following terms of reference reflect
the need, initially, to set the form and structure of supervision.
Subsequently the role will move to project planning and guidance as
supervision moves to an implementation phase.
2.          The advisor should report to the President of the NBP or to the
Director of the Bank Supervision Department at a minimum. The advisor will:
(i)   Provide expert advice on the overall form of the supervisory
process in Poland;
(ii) Provide expert advice on the organization and responsibilities for
carrying out bank supervision. This would include reporting lines
and authorities and could include the determination of the size,
qualifications and location of staff;
(iii) Participate in the development of a comprehensive plan and guide
the subsequent implementation of supervision in, at least, the
following areas.
-    off-site surveillance and follow-up;
-    prudential guidelines or regulations;
-    on-site examinations;
-     follow-up and management of problem institutions;
-     staffing and training programs.
(iv) Provide advice in other matters of policy and procedures as
warranted;
(v)   Guide and coordinate the work of other technical experts as
required and outlined in the overall project plan.



- 86 -
Page 1 of 7
POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the CoQnqnnts Industries Study
A. Backgound
1.          Experience of advanced countries shows that the development of
industries specializing in the manufacture of components and subassemblies
contributes to increase the efficiency and the competitiveness of the
industrial sector as a whole, and particularly of the engineering Lndustries.
Industries specialized in components anI subassemblies tend to be smaller than
vertically integrated plants, are less capital intensive and demand less
physical infrastructure.
2.          Product groups of the components industry include, but are not
limited to, the following: (i) mechanical parts and components (e.g.,
fittings, bolts and nuts, joints, springs, bearings, cast parts, etc);
electrical and electronic components and devices; (iii) cables and wires; (iv)
mechanical subassemblies (e.g. pneumatic and hydraulic equipment, control
equipment, brakes, clutches, gear boxes, etc.); (v) electric subassemblies
(e.g. motors, transformers, switchgear, etc); (vi) automobile/transportation
equipment parts and components; (vii) tools and fixtures; and (viii) auxiliary
material supplies (e.g., tubes and adhesives). Manufacturing of such product
groups in specialized companies contributes to the increased efficiency of the
user unit processing the next stage of manufacturing, resulting in higher
final value-added, and increased competitiveness and exportability of the
final products. Furthermore, the component industr plays a key role in the
maintenance of capital goods used in various sectors of the economy,including
industry, agriculture and transportation. It also plays an important role in
export in a number of countries.
3.         There has been a strong vertical integration of production
enterprises in Polish industry. Industrial enterprises have not built up a
strong and widespread network of component industries as they preferred to
manufacture components themselves. The development of component manufacturers
lagged, which in turn reinforced the tendency of final product manufacturers
to set up component manufacturing capacity inefficiently, at the expense of
their core business as regards its teebnology and international
competitiveness. This widespread distortion, compounded with an acute lack of
foreign exchange has also led to the proliferation of oversized maintenance
shops in many Polish industries as well as in final users of capital goods and
machinery (e.g. Polish Railways). Meanwhile, the enterprises specialized
highly in production of components and subassemblies are backward in their
technological capacity to design, d&velop and manufActure products of good
quality at high productivity, have a weak financial situation, lack the
required funds and credits to modernize their production facilitios, and
suffer from shortages of basic inputs.  In order to orrect the situation, in
the context of the restructuring of Polish industrial sector, the Polish
authorities have decided to launch a program to develop a network of
specialized component and subassembligs industries. The specific objectives



- 87 -
AMElW 4-10
Page 2 of 7
of the program include improving the efficiency of industrial manufacturing,
reduction of costs, improvement of quality, reduction of the lead time for
introduction of new products, and development of a more flexible industrial
structure, thus leading to improved international competitiveness and
increased export.
B. Objectives of the Study
4.          The specific objectives of the study are: (i) to prepare a
detailed review of the present situation of Polish components and
subassemblies industries for the electro-engineering industries; (ii) to
identify the constraints which have led to the current deficiencies and which
hamper their development; (iii) to develop a strategy for easing these
constraints and, drawing on international experience and local practices, a
restructuring, development and export strategy of the whole subsector; (iv) to
identify priority areas for actions within this strategy, including
investments and the provision of technical assistance and to propose specific
regulatory and incentive measures which would first, stimulate development
within the proposed strategy to overcome existing constraints, and second
ensure that the restructured subseccor would have the flexibility and the
capabilities to further develop according to evolving electro-engineering
sector requirements.
C. Scone and Cgverare
5.         Within these general objectives, the study should cover the
specific topics elaborated below. Considerable basic information and a number
of studies of certain aspects of the subsector are available in Poland and
will provide a starting point for the analysis. However extensive interviews
and visits to supplier enterprises, as well as those using, or intending to
use bought-out components or having their in-house production of spare parts
should be carried out to confirm, update and deepen the current understanding
of the industry's structure, constraints and issues as well as to substantiate
the recommendations. Interviews should cover problem enterprises as well as
enterprises which have been successful and efficient, despite the unfavorable
environment. As detailed below (para 11), the reporting and timetable
envisaged for the study allow for two intermediate in-depth progress reviews,
in order to provide the consultant with preliminary feedback of interim
findings and recommendations as these may affect the subsequent direction of
the study. The information collection/analysis should cover, but not be
limited to:
(a) pEggaration of a Preliminary SegMantatign:
-    Type of products by main product groups and main markets
(including, but not limited to, product groups give in para
2).
(b) gresnt IStatus of Develoument:
-     list of major producers and users of components, product



- 88 -
ANNEX 4-10
Page 3 of 7
lines, volumes of production, etc; structure of the
subsector;
-     production, import and export volumes, domestic consumption,
value added and other important indices to describe the size
and importance of the components and subassemblies;
industries in Poland;
-     evaluation of the importance of the in-house production of
components and subassemblies by final users for maintenance
purposes;
-     input/output matrix of components and subassemblies/user
industries to explain the interrelationships between users
and suppliers of product groups;
-     evaluation of the cost structure and the cost level of the
various components and subassemblies produced in Poland;
assessment of the level of quality of the various products.
(c)   Develooment of the Industrv on the International Markets
The consultant should attempt to identify the key factors of success of the
components and subassemblies industries in western markets, in particular in
selected industrialized countries to later evaluate the strengths and
weaknesses of Polish industry and to forecast the future demand pattern of
components and subassemblies:
-     technological/material changes;
-     standardization;
-     structure;
-     cost structure and cost level;
-     prices;
-     volume by segment;
quality.
(d) Constraints and Favorable Factors of Develoipment of the Polish Industry
The following listing is only illustrative, and the consultant should not
restrict his analysis to the listing. He should identify and analyze all
major constraints.
(i) Shortages of Convertible Currencies
(it) 
The impact of the present planning, resource allocation process
and incentives on the development of components and subassemblies
industries, including the impact of the system of pricing and
taxation on the 'make-or-buy" decisions of the enterprises as well
as on their decision to "develop or import" technology.



- 89 -
ANNEX 4-10
Page 4 of 7
-   quality of materials inputs;
-   availability of foreign products and production technology
including external constraints of technology transfer;
-   design, engineering and R&D capabilities;
-   existence and availability of product standards;
-   availability of testing and quality control facilities;
-   availability of local technology and degree of utilization.
(iv)   Materials Availability
-   availability and constraints in the procurement of imported
and domestically produced raw materials, including access to
off-the-shelf purchases of small quantities of imported and
domestic mat-rials and parts;
-   other material availability factors such as terms offered by
major domestic producers of raw materials;
j - constraints on the side of both manufacturers and users on
inventory holding of products of components and
subassemblies industries.
(v)   Finance and Trade Credit
-   availability and institutional arrangements for investment
finance for smaller industries;
-    terms of trade credit.
(vi) Marketing
-   necessity of a subcontracting exchange;
-   arrangements for order pooling to obtain scarce materials at
competitive prices;
-   arrangements for division of large orders among several
small industry units;
-   availability of market information on prospective orders;
-   organization of regular symposia or expositions by users of
products.
(vii) Nanag2rial Issues
-   mazag e_nt information systems and cost control;
-   organizational structure of enterprises.



- 90 -
AM=e 4 10
Page 5 of 7
(vill) Manpower and Technical Assistance
-   requirements of component industries in respect of skilled
workers and engineers;
-    training and technical assistance requirements of the
management and the workers of the components and
subassemblies industries.
(a)  MIeasures for QMetwMent= of the Comnogns and Subassemblies
Idatries
6.          The study should bring out recommendations affecting both the
supply and demand sides of the components and subassemblies industry
development, and which would be appropriate in the Polish environment. These
measures will have to be essentially the conmerse of the constraints outlined
above. Here follows an indicative listing of possible measures to be
investigated.
(i) S=UO1 Side Msasures
=   Appropriateness of regulations on specialized component
industries to encourage their growth and development;
= -Incentives to encourage large vertically integrated units to
spin-off components manufacturing facilities into separate
component units;
-     setting up a program for technology transfer from large
units to smaller units;
-    measures leading to the establishment of subcontracting and
cooperation;
-     development of quality control and standards;
-    mechanism for bulk ordering of materials for components
industries;
-     establishment of specialized credit windows for components
industries to moet investment resources needs;
-     development of credit facilities to improve access to trade
credits of the small and medium size companies;
-     arrangements for obtaining licenses, knowhow and technical
cooperation, with foreign units.
(it)    Dmand SidaMeaes
-    appropriateness of regulations to encourage the usors to



- 91 -
ANNE4-Q
Page 6 of 7
purchase from enterprises specializing in components;
-    development of incentives for encouraging the purchase of
components from components specialized manufacturers or
disincentives for vertical integration or in-house
production of spare parts;
-    development of standardization and modular design;
(f)   Prenaration of a Subsectoral Restructurine and Development
Strateev
7.          The information collected abuve, complemented by forecasts
(qualitative and quantitative) on the domestic and the export markets should
provide an adequate basis to prepare a strategy. The consultant should
develop a short and long term strategy, coherent with the economic and
financial environment of Poland. It will first overcome the existing
constraints and leave in place an industrial structure which is readily able
to adapt to changing needs in the future. It should present clearly the
objectives and the steps to ensure the long-term efficient and competitive
development of the industry including competitive exports. The time span of
the program can be divided into two periods, the first being the period up to
1992, while the second is the period after 1992. The steps to be taken in the
next three years should be presented in detailed and monitorial actions.
(g) Priority Areas for Development of the Comnonents and
Subassemblies Industries
8.                The consultant shall recommend priority areas for
development of the components and subassemblies industries. Based on analysis
of domestic needs, export potential and potential comparative advantage of
Polish component industries, the consultant should identify which product
groups and industries should be promoted with a priority in the short and
medium-term, and what infrastructure facilities would be required on a
priority basis including an estimate of overall investment needs in the
uedium-term. The investments may include: (i) investments to improve the
availability and the quality of materials inputs; (ii) investments to improve
(qrualitative and quantitative) the production of components; (iii) investments
for research and development centers to improve technology of production of
either materials or components; (iv) investments in 5 marketing organizations.
9.                The consultant will prepare a detailed program of
recommended priority actions, and develop preliminary estimates of the costs
and benefits of each component of this program, as well as the suggested
organization.
(h)    eilatory and Incentis Receurnnd&ton
10.         The consultant will have identified the extent to which the
existing regulatory and incentive framework contribute to the Eresent problems
of the component industry. Based on this analysis, the consultant will



- 92 -
AM  4-10
Page 7 of 7
propose measures for Government consideration which will not only remove these
constraints, but also guide the future efficient development of the subsector.
D.    Time Schedule and Reporting
11.         It is expected that the study can be completed in six months.
Progress reports and interim presentations are expected after two months snd
four months from the start of work, respectively. The review meeting to be
scheduled after the fourth month interim report would cover the preliminary
recommendations concerning the coverage for the subsectoral strategy, the
priority areas for action, and the regulatory and incentive framework. The
presentation of the final report is expected six months after start of the
work; a review meeting should be called to review proposed recommendations
before finalization of the report.



- 93 -
ANNEX 4-11
Page 1 of 6
POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT 2DEVELOPENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Packaging Industry Study
A.   Introduction
1.          Poland has a large and diverse packaging industry which is
important in terms of both its contribution to export trade, and for domestic
commerce. Despite its size and diversity, packaging in Poland is seriously
deficient in that:
(i)   It has failed to keep up with evolving trends in technology and
design of packing materials, to the extent that development of
export markets is significantly impaired by inadequate or
inappropriate packaging;
(ii)  The raw material allocation and distribution system, and the
shortages of raw material have not adequately catered to the
growing needs of the packing subsector further contributing to
problems in the subsector;
(iii) In domestic commerce, inadequate or inappropriate
packaging whether through package design or lack of
packaging materials, contributes to product damage,
material loss and delays of product distribution, and is thus a
significant contributing factor to overall economic inefficiency;
and
(iv)  The shortages in the local supply of packaging has led to heavily
imports, as imported packages are required to enable exports of
many goods, such as agroindustrial products.
2.         Recognizing these problems, the Government of Poland has decided
to give priority to the analysis and restructuring of the packaging subsector
with a view to identifying specific problem areas and constraints, developing
a strategy for their amelioration, and determining the appropriate economic
and regulatory environment to stimulate the implementation of this strategy
and the further efficient growth of the packaging industry.
B.   Rnekound to the PackaginfL Subsector
3.          Principal product groups in the packaging subsector include: (i)
metal-based packages (tin-plated steel cans, aluminum cans, steel containers
such as drums, etc.); plastic-based products (based ca polyethylene,
polyvinylcbloride, polypropylene, polystyrene, and others in the form of
films, bags, cups, bottles, containers, ate); (iii) cellulose and paper-based
packaging (including cellophane films, paper and paperboard packages and
boxes, and corrugated containers); glass-based packages (bottles and jars);
and other assorted packages including combination o* the foregoing
(paper/plastic and paper/al'minum/plastic laminates, paper and steel



- 94 -
NN  4-11
Page 2 of 6
containers, and others), and miscellaneous other packages such as woven sacks
and wooden boxes. The manufacture of these packages is primarily in the hands
of specialized package producing enterprises, but is also undertaken by the
producers of the primary raw materials (for example, the production of
corrugated containers in a specialized line attached to a pulp and paper
mill), or by the end-user of the package (such as the manufacture of cement
sacks from paper in a cement plant or of plastic bags from plastic granules in
a fertilizer plant). Whereas in this respect the overall development of the
packaging industry is not greatly dissimilar from corresponding developments
in more industrialized countries, the particular economic situation in
Poland--the lack of foreign exchange for new investments, and the pressure
towards self-sufficiency forced by chronic shortages of materials and
capacity--has led to the distortions and structural deficiencies which
characterize the subsector today.
4.          Three major constraints hampering the development of the subsector
in Poland would be: (i) insufficient supply (quantity and quality) of basic
raw materials and auxiliary materials (adhesives, inks, etc); (ii) outmoded
manufacturing equipments and obsolete technology and design of packaging;
(iii) inadequate structure to serve the users' needs due to a centralized
production as against a regionaliz.d production, all of which are aggravated
by shortages of foreign currency to relieve the situation by necessary
imports. Furthermore, the imbalance of supply of certain raw materials such
as PVC and Polyethylene has further induced distorted design of certain
packages (e.g plastics bags). This has resulted in shortages of packaging,
excessive imports and unused capacities.
C.    Obiectives of the Stud.
5.          The specific objectives of the proposed packaging subsector study
are: (i) to prepare a detailed review of the supply side of the subsector;
(ii) to prepare a corresponding review of the demand side, with a dynamic
component to include the effects of changing demand patterns as a result of
the influences of technological and design developments and substitutions;
(iii) to identify the constraints which have led to the current deficiencies
in the subsector; (iv) to develop a strategy for easing these constraints; (v)
to identify priority areas for action within this strategy, including
investments and the provision of technical assistance; and (vi) to propose
specific regulatory and incentive measures which would first, stimulate
developments within the proposed strategy to overcome existing constraints,
and second, ensure that the restructured subsector would have the flexibility
and capability to further develop acco,ding to evolving packaging
requirements.
D.    Scone and CoveraZp
6.          Within these general objectives, the study should cover the
specific topics elaborated below. Considerable basic information and a number
of studies of the subsector are available within Poland and will provide a
starting point for the analysis. However, extensive interviews and visits to
enterprises are also envisaged in order to confirm, update and deepen the



- 95 -
ANNE 4-11
Page 3 of 6
current understanding of the industry's structure, constraints and issues.  As
detailed below (para 11.), the reporting and timetable envisaged for the study
;         allow for two interwedLate in-depth progress reviews, in order to provide the
consultant with preliminary feedback of intarim findings and recommendations
as these may affect the subsequent direction of the study. The information
collection aspects of the study should include:
(a)   Erwlmnrn  SguM- rrgn by market requirements according to the
nature of twhe products to be packaged, the volume of the packages,
the transportation requirements and the existing packaging
products on international markets;
(b)   Review of the SUOD1 Side:
-    preparation of a detailed statistical analysis of capacity
and production of major types of packages in Poland,
including (but not limited to) those identified in para 3
above; identify the regional structure for each of the main
packaging product;
-     list the major producers of raw materials used for packaging
in Poland. Relate the capacity and the output of these
industries to the demands of the packaging industry
(relative demand and quality specifications);
-    provide details of imports and exports of both raw materials
and final packages, by main segments, as these may affect
the supply of packaging in Poland;
-     list the major producers af packaging in Poland, providing
details of their size, ownership, structure, geographical
location, etc;
I _ prepare an assessment of packaging development in selected
industtrialized countries and compare the state
(technological developments, including package design and
manufacture, size, effieiency, etc) of Polish packaging
materials and package producers with that of similar
producers in other selected industrialized countries.
(c)   Raview of the Deand Side
-    prepare a statistieal analysis of the major users of
packaging in Poland, by type of industry and type of
package;
-    prepare an input/output matrix of producer/user lndustries
to explain the relationships between suppliers and users of
product groups;
-     ldentify the choice criteria of the main user of packaging



96-
ANK4-11
Page 4 of 6
(technological specifications, consumer preferences, price,
transportation costs, etc);
-     analyze the use of packaging for domestic commerce in
Poland;
-     identify weaknesses in the quality, supply or design of
packaging for domestic use, and attempt to quantitatively
assess the impacts of shortcomings in these areas, in
particular the cost of damages due to improper packaging;
-     assess the quality of packinb machinery in users' plants.
Determine whether the availability, design or other aspects
of this machinery contributes to problems in packaging;
-     develop statistics showing the extent to which Polish
packages are used to package export products, and the
specific volumes/quality of imported packaging to package
export products. Identify the impact of packaging on export
volumes and price realization on the various market
segments;
-    discuss the continuing evolution of package design and
manufacture, and assess likely future developments which
would be significant in any long-term perspective for
packaging development in Poland.
(d) Constraints and Favorable Factors to Development
From the foregoing quantitative and qualitative analysis of supply
and demand, identify all major constraints which contribute to
inadequacies and inefficiencies in Polish packaging, as well as
favorable factors which have contributed to the success of some
enterprises. The following lists suggests some possible
contributing factors, but should be supplemented by the findings
of the consultant:
Convertible Currency Shortages
-     resource allocation system;
-    pricing policies;
-     export incentives.
Technology
-    quality of raw materials;
-     lack of access to evolving teehnology;
-     existence/adequacy of product standards;
-     testing and quality control;



- 97 -
ANNE 4-11
Page 5 of 6
-    quality of packaging equipment;
-    availability of local technology and degree of utilization.
Materials Availability
-    constraints on supply of importad materials;
-    constraints on supply of domestic materials.
Finance and Credit
-    availability of investment finance;
-     terms of trade credit.
Marketing
-    subcontracting requirements;
-    allocation system;
*    availability of market information;
-    dissemination of product information.
Managerial Issues
=    organlzational structure of enterprises;
-    management information systems and cost control.
Manpower and Traininr.
, - availability of adequately skilled workers;
! - facilities for training.
-    geographical location of suppliers and users;
-     transport system;
-    organization of distribution and/of wholesale storage; and
-    handling.
(e) Develooment of a Subsectoral Strategy
7.          The information collected above should provide an adequate basis
for the analytical components of the study which follow. The consultant
should prepare a strategy for short- and long term development of Poland's
packaging industry, coherent with the local economic and financial
environment. This strategy will first, overcome the constraints which exist
at present, and second, leave in place an industrial structure which is
readily able to adapt to the changing needs of the future. The strategy
should cover the Immediate needs of the industry, for the period to 1922,
which will form the basis of the priority area for action (para 8), and
should also provide a longer perspective to 2000 by identifying the steps
which need to be taken to ensur the long.,term e fficient and competitive
development of the industry.



- 98 -
ANNEX 4-11
Page 6 of 6
(f) Priority Areas for Lction
8.         A major component of the short-term component of the subsectoral
strategy will be the identification of priority areas for investment which may
include: (i) investments to improve the availability and quality of basic raw
material supplies; (ii) investments to improve the availability and quality of
specialized packaging materials (e.g complex films); (iii) investments in new
equipment for the production of packages; (iv) investments in packing
equipment in the user's plant; and/or (v) investments in machinery to produce
packaging equipment. Priority areas for action may also include the provision
of technical assistance for improving market orientation, and technological
know-how in the areas of package design, manufacture, use and distribution.
9.         The consultant will prepare a detailed program of recommended
priority actions, and develop preliminary estimates of the costs and benefits
of each component of this program.
(g)  Realatory and Incentive Recommendations
10.        The consultant will have identified the extent to which the
existing regulatory and incentive environment contribute to the present
problems of the packaging industry. Based on this analysis, the consultant
will propose measures for Government consideration which will not only remove
these constraints, but also guide the future efficient development of the
subsector.
E.   Time Schedule and Reorting
11.        It is expected that the study can be completed in a total of six
months. A progress report covering the information collection aspects of the
study (para 6) will be expected after two months, and an interim presentation
and review meeting at that time will be scheduled in order to review progress
in the work, and to develop preliminary recommendations concerning the
coverage for the proposed subsectoral strategy, the priority areas for action,
and the regulatory and incentive framework. A second review meeting will be
scheduled five months from the inception of the study, to review proposed
recommendations before the report Is finalized.



- 99 -
ANNEX 4-12
Page 1 of 7
POLAND - INDUSTRIL  EXPORT DEVELOENT PROJECT
Terma of Reference for, the Steel Indust= St&Ud
A.   9bi vkdn
1.          To provice the Polish steel sector through its major member
companies and the Ministry of Industry with a steel sector restructuring
program which will lead to the efficient and competitive development of the
Polish steel industry. The study will develop strategLc options for the
restructuring of the industry major producers including the necessary
supporting technical, financial and economic analysis and evaluation required
for the choice of strategy and suggested actions for the industry. A foreign
consultant will be selected to work closely with a counterpart team
representing the major member companies and domestic engineering and
consulting firms determined by the Ministry of Industry. In the process of
carrying out the study, consensus on its findings and recommendations should
be sought from th member companies through their participation in development
of the study's reports. The overall goal of the program is to identify the
major issues that muwt addressed in order to allow effective restructuring of
the industry in order that its major producers will reach financial and
economical viabllity in an economic environmnt that will allow the industry
to satisfy efficiently the demands of the projected markets.
B.   Bsskac    d
2.         The World Bank, at the request of the Ministry of Industry,
conducted a brief review of the steel industry and the modernization program
for its major firms. A recom_endation of this review included an in-depth
strategy study that would include examination of the following issues:
(a)  Policy and economlc environment including pricing policy, trade
policy, production allocation, import and export of steel products
and a determination of both domastic and economic prices of inputs
and outputs to the sector;
(b)  Market for the major steel products with interview and discussion
botween both producers and major consumers, and further data
collection and analysis to understand the past, the current and to
develop a view to future steel consumption patterns and needs with
projected volumes, and qualitles anticipated;
(c)   Cost of production by product, with balance sheet and income
statoent information developed for current performance and a
model developed for use in projecting financial and economic
performance;
(d)  Management and technical issues relating to present performance,
operating and maintenance practices and other noncapital
imProv eets particularly relating to human resource development



- 100 -
ANNEX 4-12
Page 2 of 7
and potential needs for further technical assistance including the
development of management information systems, quality controls
and market o:iented, customer service;
(e)   Environmental and ecological factors that must be addressed in
present operations and future developments; and
(f)   Modernization plans, technical options, schemes for debottle-
necking and balancing present plants, and equipment needed to
assist future production to match market needs; analysis of the
capital costs and benefits, both financial and economic that might
be realized through such investments.
3.          The major producers with the assistance of Biprohut, the industry
engineering firm, have developed modernization plans covering the period 1989
to 1998 with planned inveatments totaling about US$2 billion equivalent. The
study should provide a means for prioritizing these and other investments and
putting them in the context of the country's changing economy and
institutional issues regarding ownershLp, private sector development and
entrepreneurship. It is the view of the Bank that the Government should
assist in developing a restructuring program for the major producers and also
establish a policy environment which is suitable for the independent
development of the balance of the industry.
4.          The counterpart team established in the country will carry out the
majority of the detail work following the methodology under the supervision of
the foreign consultant.
C. Scane of Work
5.          The study will include (a) a survey of the industry, with detailed
diagnosis of the strength& and weaknesses of the major steel works, including
an analysis of present technical levels, production costs and management tools
and capabilities; (b) a study of the domestic steel market, projection of
demand and opportunities for export; (c) an economic analysis including
competitive advantage of the major producers in the context of recent changes
in deregulation and the changes needed in the policy environment to foster
competition and market response to satisfy long-term needs of the steel
consumers; (d) a detailed financial analysis of the major companies and their
investment plans including options for financial restructuring to ensure the
companies will be firancially viable and self-sustaining; (e) an environmental
review along with short-term investment and operating recommendations; (f)
medium - and long-term strategic options based on the above including a
recommended plan for restructuring; and (g) an agreed implementation plan with
detailed actions, milestones and timing. While reports are a necessary output
of the study, it is the agreed implementation plan and the ability of the
counterpart team to carry it out that is the most significant outcome of the
work. The ability of the consultants to build consensus through the study
methodology and to help create a local capacity for planning and
implementation is a critical part of the work.



- 101 -
AM 4-12
Page 3 of 7
6.            ternrise Detail.  The study should begin with a survey of the
total steel industry to provide the necessary background of covsistent,
comprehensive and comparable data; followed by a diagnosis of the strengths
and weaknesses of the major steel works in respect of:
*    plants and locations;
*    production capacities, outputs and product range;
*    facilities: site and layout;
*    production equipment, processes and technology levels;
*    raw materials and energy: sources and consumption;
; * transport, infrastructure and costs;
*    organization and manpower;
*    management systems and skills;
*    sales, marketing and distribution;
I * financial results and investment plans;
I * resource costs of production leading to analysis of costs of
iron ore, coke, and finished steel products.
7.          F^ailities analysis detailing the status of the major production
facilities including technical performance factors, input costs and financial
information based on the use of a computer model for the evaluation of
production costs by process and product. The production cost analysis will
form the basis for further economic and financial analysis, including
comparison between domestic facilities and international producers and the
evaluation of operational improvements, investment alternatives and strategic
options. The financial analysis should include detailed examination of the
financial situation of the major steel companies, including their debt burden.
8.         Maret informatio  should be collected through interviews with the
major producers, distributors and consumers in order to develop the following:
(a)  Analysis of historical trends in the production, consumption,
imports and exports of steel products (for the last ten years);
(b) Analysis of current demand in terms of both quality and quantity
in the domestic market, with an estimatici of apparent national
consumption of steel by product type and -.y user sector and an
estimation of regional distribution of demand;
(c)   Identificatlon of major purchasers in each user sector and the
nature of their requirements, with particular emphasis on qualLty
and specification. This should also include the expected supply
patterns for each product type/user sector and the sources of
supply and current prices;
(d) Projections of domestic demand should be made to the year 2000 by
product type and user sector on the basis of economic projections
and market survey. This should also include an analysis of
changes in the structure of demand, e.g., relative shares of long
and flat products in total demand, changes in technology in user
sectors, substitution of competing materials and expected trends



-102 -
ANNEX 4-12
Pago 4 of 7
ini the requirements of user sectors in terms of quality and
specifications of steel products, customer liaison, design and
support services;
(e)   Developing information on market opportunities for domestic
producers based on an analysiU of trends in domestic and
international markets for steel products: volume of demand, price
levels, product development, sources of supply, protectionist
policies, and trading conditions and an estimation of shares and
volumes of apparent national consumption achievable by domestic
producers in each product-market to year 2000 with identification
of key determinant factors and sensitivity analysis;
(f)   Developing information on export market opportunities by domestic
steel producers including analysis of key competitive factors,
government policy, potential cost competitiveness of domestic
producers, and impact of technology development. Formulation of a
viable export strategy for the Polish steel industry, taking
cognizance of the importance of foreign exchange earnings and
trade balances.
9.          Economic analysis of the current economic policy environment to
develop an understanding of the impact of current Government policy on the
industry and the distortions which should be addressed by changes recommended
in policy including a review of:
steel pricing;
trade policy;
tariff policy and protection;
institutional support;
foreign exchange regulation and controls;
policy effects on steel consumers.
10.         Material input analysis to develop costs and information on
availability of basic raw materials, fuels and energy and other inputs for the
industry, including comparisons with worldwide trends, and projections to the
year 2000.
11.         Environmental1       review of the plants and, based on experience
and the need to reduce pollution, make recommedations in those areas where
new investrents, operating practices and controls may provide economical
solutions for pollution abatement.
12.         ProductiviX review of operating, maintenance and staff manning at
the plants, with recommendations for improving manpower productivity and
possible strategies for redeployment of surplus manpower for each plant.
13.         Practices review of operating and maintenance practices and that
identifies short-term operating improvements for early implementation that do
not require substantial investment.



- 103 -
ANNEX 4-12
Page 5 of 7
14.         Restructuring ontions for the industry that include development
and analysis of alternative plans for restructuring to improve its economic,
financial and technical viability, based on production costs and other factors
previously developed leading to specific alternatives that are based on:
(a)   Identification of the particular processes that should be retained
by the major producers and upgraded, including a review of
investment plans, costs and expected benefits, and
(b)   Strategic issues and policy options with respect to future
development of the Polish steel industry including.
*     stimulation of competition;
*    product/market orientation;
*     steel pricing and trade policy;
*     institutional support for industry development;
technology development;
*     supply configuration: distribution and concentration
of production capacities;
e    raw materials supply strategy;
a    management and organization;
*    environmental impact.
(c)   Strategic options for restructuring and modernization of the steel
industry with clearly defined assumptions and analysis to support
the options evaluated and recommended;
(d)   Identifying financial restructuring needs and mechanisms to assure
the long-term viability of the enterprises and to determine the
burden of restructuring to be carried by various shareholders and
agencies involved in the industry.
15.         Sun]1. options for the consumers that are based on economic
efficiency (i.e., comparison with an import option) with individual supply
options and steel plant developments to be analyzed in terms of:
*    capital investment requirements;
*    projected outputs by product type;
*    rationalization/utilization of resources: target levels of
raw material and energy consumption, and manning;
*    achievable costs by product and per ton of production;
- * projected prices and value added attributable to outputs.
The principal criterion should be economic efficiency, i.e., minimum unit
costs of production and international competitiveness of steel works.
16.         DmJflo3ment of an agreed restructuring program based on the
restructuring and supply options evaluated in order to arrive at an agreed
program for achieving steel industry viability including economic and
financial criteria for development and satisfying the projected need of the
steel consumers. This would provide a long-term perspective of the industry



- 104 -
ANE   -12
Page 6 of 7
showing development over time of production capacity, output, process
technology, product range, manning levels and other key parameters.
17.         Appraisal of the projected industry in terms of:
*     economic impact, including contributions to GDP and
government revenues, and balance of trade;
*     international competitiveness;
*     structure of production and distribution;
*     product quality;
*     growth of output and value added;
*     expected unit costs of production by product;
*     labor productivity;
*     implications for supply of raw materials and energy; and
transportation infrastructure.
18.         Action 1an presented for implementation, that includes:
(a)   The steps that should be taken by the industry to accomplish the
recommended restructuring programs along with specific
implementations steps for the individual enterprises and their
timing along with defined milestones, costs, financial
requirements and benefits through the year 2000;
(b)   Key factors outside industry control relating to government
policy, domestic and export market uncertainties should be clearly
spelled out with recommendations and expected effects on the
recommended strategy;
(c)   The study will form the basis for continued planning by the
industry and as such must contain the methodology for updating and
reevaluation at critical stages during the implementation process
and thereafter.
D.    Lenorting Requirements
19.         A diagnostic report should be prepared at the conclusion of the
first phase of the study. This should contain the necessary background data,
analysis and evaluation of the current situation including: (a) structure and
performance of the industry; (b) degree of international competitiveness;
(c) economic environment; (d) technical situation strength, weakness and
principal problem areas; (e) financial performance and viability; and (f)
domestic and international market prospects. This report should include
short-term recommendations for enterprise improvement. On the basis of this
diagnostic prepared with the counterpart team, a set of assumptions for the
development of strategic options can be agreed. This report should clearly
spell out actions which are (a) under control of the enterprise, (b) under
control of the Government, and (c) outside the country's control.
20.         The second phase of the study-should develop options for
restructuring the industry, including defined changes in: (a) policies and



- 105 -
ANNME 4-12
Page 7 of 7
regulations; (b) enterprises' operations, finances and investments for
modernization; (c) raw material and infrastructure requirements; and (iv) the
benefits associated with each of the strategic options analyzed. The final
report will elaborate the options considered and the final recommended
restructuring plan agreed by the consultants and counterpart group. This
report must contain the information necessary for implementing the final
restructuring plan including the detailed action plan, milestones and timing
along with an agreed definition of responsibility for each area of
implementation.



- 106 -
ANNE 4-
Page 1 of 4
I,=ND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPlENT PROJECT
Targeted Program of Assistance to Ailinif
and Financiallv Distressed Enter2rises
A.    Intoduction
1.          The Government of Poland is presently faced with the cost of
supporting inefficient enterprises or enterprises in financial trouble. In
addition, with the proposed changes in the macro-economic environment, some
enterprises presently healthy may face deep troubles when domestic prices of
energy and other inputs will be changed, when price of foreign exchange will
be unified and when trade liberalization will introduce competition. It is
therefore very important to identify those enterprises which will have a long
range viability, but which would suffer from the transition, and to assist
them during the transition to regain economic and financial viability.
B.    Objectives of the orogram
2.          The program is designed to identify industrial subsectors,
branches and enterprises which are in urgent need of assistance, to evaluate
them and thereafter (i) to design the necessary assistance program and arrange
for its implementation in order to restore efficiency and financial viability
to thosb enterprises which can be restructured and (ii) to design and cost a
liquidation plan if appropriate. In addition, the program is intended to
assist the Government to evaluate the possible negative impact of the
liberalization on enterprise and to enable an assessment of the technical and
financial needs to be mobilized to permit the transition.
C.    The Program
3.          A screening process, based on criteria to be developed, would
identify activities and enterprises which appear to fall into the "distressed"
category. A subsequent enterprise-specific areliminay diagnosis would place
these enterprises in one of the three following categories:
(a)   Basicallv sound enterprises, from both a technological and
economic point of view, which are in trouble as a result of the
distortions which persist in the Pollsh economy;
(b) Enterorises reguiring restructuring, in that while parts of the
organlzation or its activities may be sound, factors such as an
inappropriate organizational structure, associated uneconomic
activities, technological backwardness, excessive staffing, etc,
are affecting the overall health of the enterprise; and
(c)   BasicallX uounAd enterprises which cannot be expected to function
efficiently in the reformed Polish economy and which must be
wholly or partly liquidated or otherwise disposed of.



- 107 -
AME^ 4-13
Page 2 of 4
4.          For each category of enterprise, the preliminary diagnosis would
specify appropriate next steps including, if necessary, the preparation of
terms of reference for any detailed enterprise restructuring studies or
liquidation strategies which may be required. This program will enable thls
Government to identify and design the appropriate mechanisms to support the
enterprises during the transition. The Project would lnclude financing for a
number of these studies which would enable immediate actions for a number of
the most urgent cases as well as demonstrating the effectiveness of the
proposed approach.
D.    InsttLtonaL AanguN.tE;
5.          The Ministry of Finance, in coordination with the Ministty of
Industry, would establish a small unit which would be charged with the
responsibility for undertaking preliminary screening as well as with following
up on subsequent enterprise diagnostic and restructuring studies. This unit
would be strengthened with external consultants specialized in this type of
activity. Initially two such consultants are envisaged: a specialist with
broad industrial experience, and a financial analyrt. The Project could
finance the cost of these specialists. The unit would have an initial six-
months mandate, after which time its effectiveness and the scope of its future
activities would be reviewed. The enterprises may contribute to the cost of
the diagnoses, but should contribute to the financing of the restructuring
studies
E.   Screening Criteria
6.          The first task of the unit would be to elaborate screening
criteria for selecting activities and enterprises meriting diagnostic
analysis. Screening criteria are likely to include, but not be limited to,
consideration of the following:
*     Enterprises presenting difficulties under the current environment:
.    enterprises which are already under program  designed for
dealing with poor financial performance;
.    enterprises requiring significant budget support (direct budget
subsidies, export subsidies, special tax/depreciation rebates);
enterprises with significant arrears.
*     Enterprises healthy under the current environment, but suspected to
present significant problems after liberalization:
.    enterprises with apparently low Domestic Resource Cost (DRC) and
low Total Factor of Productivity (TFP);
enterprises with near to international prices for output, but
using inputs and utilities priced at low subsidized prices, such
as copper, steel, etc.;



-108 -
Page 3 of 4
enterprises using significant volumes of imported inputs at
official exchange rate;
*    large enterprises in a monopoly position.
7.          Once criteria have been agreed and elaborated, they would be
applied across a broad spectrum of socialized enterprises with a view to
identifying a number (perhaps twenty to thirty initially) of representative
enterprises which would be subjected to preliminary diagnostic studies.
8.          A parallel exercise would be carried out for subsectors:
subsectors with a number of enterprises in financial distress;
subsectors with poor DRC/TFP/which could be affected by
liberalization.
F.    Preliminary Diagnosis
9.          In order to reach a representative sample of enterprises in a
short period of time, we propc e the following approach: (i) preliminary
diagnoses over two or three enterprises to refine the selection criteria and
to prepare a questionnaire focussed on the points which are good indicators of
the situation of the enterprises; (ii) send a questionnaire to the largest
enterprises and inform them of the support of the Government and possibility
of World Bank assistance for restructuring through a seminar, and (iii) carry
out diagnoses on a limited sample of twenty to thirty enterprises. It is
envisaged that the preliminary enterprise diagnoses would be carried out over
a period of one week by a small group of specialists working intensively with
enterprise managers and specialists. Diagnoses for the first two or three
cases could profitably be undertaken by the staff and consultants of the unit
(para 5), who would thereby develop specific approaches which could be used to
guide consultants undertaking diagnoses of other enterprises as this activity
expands.
10.         The diagnosis would aim at:
*    determining the exact nature of the enterprise' problems;
*    making an assessment of the long term economic viability of the
enterprise and as to which of the categories (para 3) the
enterprise belongs, as this will determine the nature of
subsequent follow-up activity;
*     developing a range of possible alternative courses of action which
could be envisioned to assist or restructure the enterprise, and
to the extent possible within the time-frame envisaged, comm_nting
on the relative merits of these actions;
*     to the extent possible, making specific recommendations concerning
the future of the enterprise;.



- 109 -
ANNEX 4-13
Page 4 of 4
*    where necessary, elaborating terms of reference for any follow-up
studies which may be required, and helping to identify suitable
consultants (Polish, foreign, or Polish and foreign in
collaboration) to carry out these studies;
*     in all cases, making a detailed time-table for actions, studies
and any other activities proposed;
*     give an order of magnitude of the probable restructuring cost and
the probable social problems.
11.         The unit would follow up on subsequent actions following each
diagnostic study and within three months of the completion of the study,
revisit the enterprise to assess the progress made by the enterprise launching
its corporate restructuring plans. At the same time, the unit will coordinate
any further actions which may be required. In addition, it will evaluate the
total cost involve to restructure the industry and the magnitude of the social
problems involved so as to give the government a rough idea of the necessary
financing to be engineered to support the sample enterprises and gauge the
possible scope of overall closure and restructuring needs.
G.   Follow-un Actions
12.         In addition to design specific programs to support enterprises,
the unit will design possible financing schemes to implement the necessary
restructuring to improve/restore efficiency. The role of the unit would be to
follow-up on recommendations of the diagnoses.
1.    Basicallv Sound Enterprises
Strong recommendations to remove whatever distortions are
necessary.
2.    Enterprises Re2uiring Restructurina
Preparation of detailed restructuring plans.
3.    FudamentallX Unoud Enterprises
Preparation of detailed sale or liquidation plans.
Financing of the diagnoses and restructuring studies initially provided by WB
under the Export Development Project, but bilateral or other cheaper financing
could take over and any unused VB funds could be reallocated to investment
projects.
13.         The financing of restructuring of the enterprises will be
engineered on a case by case basis using funds of various origin such as
loans, funds out of the proceeds of privatization and sale/spin off of certain
activities, leasing, etc.



- 110 -
AN   4-14
Page 1 of 4
POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DVLOPMENT PRCJECT
TeX_   of Reference for Assitanc
to the Develoo1ent of Small Scale Enternrises
A. Introduction
1.          The Polish Goverrment's stated objective to progressively reorient
the industrial sector towards the private sector represents a major effort and
challenge to develop the industry in an efficient, dynamic and competitive
environment. However, given the decades of neglect of the private sector,
which presently represents only SS of industrial production, it needs a
special support to achieve sound development. Until recently,
entrepreneurship hardly existed in Poland.
2.          At this stage, the various and specific needs of the small scale
enterprises (S$E8) whether active in services or industry, are not well
identified and further studies are needed. However, this should not prevent
an immediate action based on obvious needs and similar experience in other
countries, program to be expanded and refined once the results of the various
studies under way and to be launched (Parliamentary Commission, World Bank,
Chambers of Commerce, etc.) are available. Given the need to stimulate a
quick initial response, the initial focus of an SME policy would be on the
creation of new enterprises, organization of support services, assistance to
external promotion and establisbment of linkages with other
entrepreneurs/companies, both in Poland and abroad.
3.          The program below outline a possible assistance to initiate a
support to SEEs creation and development, and to identify the institutional
and training needs of the sector. This ilnitial program would enable a better
understanding of the capabilities and motivations of the polish entrepreneurs.
In addition, it would permit to identify the necessary institutional
environment and the required linkages between the municipality, the region,
the university, the SEEs associations/chamber of comerce, etc., as well as
their respective role. It would also point out the necessary upgrading of the
infrastructure, telecommunications in particular.
B.   Obi1cti8s
4.          The objective of the initial program would be to create and
develop domestic capabilities and institutions to assist enterprises. This
would be accomplished by: (i) establishing a task force grouping all
institutions/individuals interested in SNEs creation and development to
validate the program and later on to guide and monitor its implementation;
(ii) cre ng.- az  O-- u r *e  -, whose function would be to assist
entrepreneurs in need of professional services to sustain their growth and to
promote and support the creation of new enterprises and (iii) designing the
organization of national or regional duheflo   afn        (with private,
public or mix funding) to be established all over Poland.



AN-M 4-14
Page 2 of 4
C. Organization of the work and content of the program
5.          The design of this initial program would be pilot, limited to
three regions where a certain concentration of SMEs already exists and where
the municipalities have expressed interest and already outlined a strategy for
the development of SNEs.
(i) Estabishment of a Task Force
6.            In order to follow-up, validate, monitor and guide the
implementation of the proposed program, it is suggested to create a task
force, with sub-groups in each selected region, including ministry of
industry, local entrepreneurs, regional/municipal authorities, enterprise
associations, chamber of commerce, local consultants, university, banks, etc..
The role of the task force would be to guide and to monitor the design and the
progress of the program.
(ii)  TMLU
7.         The training program would be designed by a team of foreign
experts/trainers experienced and specialized in problems of small scale
enterprises, in cooperation with Polish trainers in charge to replicate and
expand the program, once the initial program has been satisfactorily
implemented. In the initial stage, covered under this project, a team of 20
to 25 young university graduate with a background in economy will be selected
to work in the context of the three selected regions. The selection criteria
should focus on the openness of the candidate, his pragmatism and its initial
understanding of the enterprise functions. As in the initial phase, the
institutional org nization would not be in place, it is suggested to place
these young trainees under an existing institution (such as enterprises
association, municipality, chamber of commerce, etc.), but to guide their work
through the task force, not anticipating the eventual form of the development
agencies to be created.
8.          Training would be carried out during residential seminars in
Poland (a total of 4/5 weeks in 2 or 3 modules), coupled with practical work
with enterprises and study tours abroad to familiarize the agents with the day
to day problems of their profession. The main areas to be covered are, among
others:
l   *    Practical aspects of the functioning of a SME:
k  -  internal operations/functions;
-     links with external institutions.
*    BasBic knowledge to be aquired/strengthened by the development
agents to ssdist successfully an enterprise:



- 112 -
ANNMEX 4-14
Page 3 of 4
-    Training:
Identification of training needs;
Design and organization of training courses;
Identification of potential trainers in universities,
institutes or within the management of successful
enterprises.
-     "Management consulting and adviser in various
administrative   matters; use of management tools:
Promotion, sales and export;
Accounting and tax reporting;
Financing and use of public funding;
Production know how and technology;
Enterprise organization;
Enterprise managemen.
Creation of enterprises
-     Basic administrative, financial, technical requirements
-     Evaluation of the project on which the enterprise is based
*     Institutional role of the agent:
-     Links between commune, province and university;
-     Identification of a support network.
The study tours will be organized with the assistance of foreign SMEs
associations (for example CNA in Italy) to give the trainees a very practical
!        experience in various regions/ countries with different SMEs profile as well
as to initiate the creation of a network to be used by the new development
agents in case of need.
(ii) DeveloDment agencies
9.          The same team, foreign experts and polish trainers, with the
assistance of the newly trained agents would be in charge to design the scheme
for the development agencies. The team will propose a basic scheme of
assistance to the small scale enterprises, to be discussb.. and elaborated with
the members of the task force. The scheme should include: role of the
development agencies, functions, organization and regional setting up, liaison
with existing institutions, staffing, funding, etc.,. In addition, the scheme
should include an evaluation of the needs for training of the staff of the
agencies.  The outcome of the program would also to define the need for
further actions/institutions such as financial assistance to job-creating
projects, support to local consultants, etc..



-113 -
ANNEX 4-14
Page 4 of 4
E. Timing and Imolemontation
10.         The work should be completed within six months of the start of the
assignment. It is envisaged that the assigment will involve four men-month
of work. The project would finance the foreign exchange component of the
program (foreign experts/trainers, study tours, etc.,).



- 114 -
Page 1 of 2
POtAND - INDUSTRIAL EPORT DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Outline of a Program of Suroort for the Transformation
and Privatization of StAte Enterorises
A.  Background
1.          The Polish authorities have proclaimed their strong commitment to
the privatization of State Enterprises and are in the process to prepare a
program. They have requested help in this area from a number of sources.
Although some of this assistance will be free, they will need to develop a
coherent framework and legal system, specific to the Polish conditions as well
as to prepare guidelines which will elaborate and clarify the requirements
under the law.
B. Program of Actions to be Imnlemented
2.          Drawing on the experience of other countries, and taking into
account the specificities of the Polish context, it is imperative that laws,
actions and guidelines be prepared and implemented to address the following
aspects of the privatization process:
* The issue of ownership and the relation between State Enterprises and
the Government should be resolved clearly at the outset. In particular,
State Enterprises should operate within a modern corporate framework,
including a real ownership interest presented through a shareholder
meeting and represented on a proper Board of Directors. Moreover, the
recent law on the Finances of Public Enterprises is far from clear and
could add to the confusion;
* Requirements under the Transformation and Privatization Law should be
clarified and elaborated to avoid misinterpretations and undesired
actions;
*  An orderly transparent and competitive process be envisioned and
legislated to avoid obvious pitfalls (a la Hungary) and maximize the
prospects for a *fair" process which yields economically beneficial end-
results;
* In addition to the legislative framework, an appropriate institutional
framwork and capacity must be developed to.
-    vest and oversee the State's ownership in State Enterprises as
well as to execute its role in the privatization process. While
enterprise-initiated privatization should be encouraged, a
monitoring and minimum control (e.g., on value/price and process)
must be exercised by the State;



-115 -
ANNEX 4-15
Page 2 of 2
-  stimulte appropriate arAits etc. to assess the "value" of the
State Enterprises. (Bo0k values are likely to be meaningless in
light of current accounting practLces and current inflation etc.);
and
- exercise real "ownership" interests (i.e. impose real financial
accountability) on Enterprises that remain in the State Portfolio.
A number of different options (e.g., a two-tier structure of
ownership could be explored.
FLnally, the authorities will have to address the pre-conditions and
complementary actions necessary to ensure the success of the privatization, in
particular the strengthening of the anti-monopoly Law to avoid the
transformation of a public monopoly in a private monopoly.
C.   The Possible Assistance from the Bank
3.          The most appropriate role of the Bank (possibly, in collaboration
with IFC) would be to advise the Polish authorities to:
e     formulate an overall strategy regarding the privatization and/or
"corporatization" of the State Enterprise sector;
-    prepare the appropriate legislative framework;
*    prepare the appropriate institutional framework and develop/retain
the requisite capacities;
*    prepare a set of *model"  corporatizations and privatizations; and
*     launch the development of a supporting capital market.
D.   The Assistance under this uroiect
4.          Besides the genoral assistance outlined above, lt is proposed that
under this project, funds would be available to finance external assistance,
as needed, to help retain and ensure the quality of needed experts and
imnestment advisory services. These funds would be used at two levels, (i) at
Government to finance the services of the foreign experts/consultants needed
to develop the program outlined above and (ii) at enterprises under the
project, to finance the services of foreign experts/consultants needed to
value the enterprises and help them to prepare a privatization plan.



- 116 -
ANNE 5-1
Page 1 of 2
POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVmLOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Hanid1o  (BH)
Financgal Position
1.          Size of assets.  The BH's balance sheet and income statement as of
December 31, 1988 and as of June 30, 1989 are summarized in Table 1 of this
annex. In order to have a realistic view of the BH's financial situation some
adjustments to the current presentation of its financial statements were
introduced. The major adjustment corresponds to items included in the BH's
balance sheet regarding part of the Polish foreign debt serviced by the BH;
other adjustment -although minor- relate to some social funds. In both cases,
the current presentation have been adjusted by listing these items "below the
line", since the role of the bank in both cases is limited only to their
administration.
2.          The BH's total assets increased by 891 in nominal terms (from zl
3,789 billion to zl 7,182 billion) during the first half of 1989, partly due
to the foreign currency adjustments derived from transactions at different
nominal exchange rates. The relatively large amount included in the category
"Other" in the BHI's balance sheet is due to the continuous devaluation of the
zloty and to the fact that the BH's activities consist mainly of short term
trade deposits and loans in foreign exchange. Thus, at the end of each
reporting period there is a number of foreign exchange adjustments.
Additionally, due to its involvement in trade financing, the BH's balance
sheet is characterized by large deposit holdings in foreign banks and large
deposits received from other banks and institutions, mostly in foreign
currency.
3.          Canital Adequacy.  The BH's capital increased by 81X, in nominal
terms, over the six month of 1989, from zl 323 billion to zl 586 billion,
partly due to reinvestment of profit and also because of some transfers from
the GOP. At this time the BH's total equity is comparable to other western
banks, and is much better than capital resources of the new commercial banks.
As of June 30, 1989 its debt to equity ratio was 10.2:1, and its capital to
assets ratio was 8.21.
4.          Earning Perfrmance. The BH is moderately profitable.  Its six-
month income after tax amounted to zl 106.9 billion, as of June 30,1989,
representing a 18.2Z return on equity and 1.91 an average total assets. It
gross interest spread was 3.31 of average assets.
5.          LLMquiSit. Like other banks in Poland, the BH gives much
attention to its liquidity position which is good (not counting the state
foreign debt which it administers). Liquid assets to total liabilities were
51.61 as of January 1, 1989, and 43.11 as of June 30, 1989, still well above
the 301 conventional limit.



- 117 -
AM R.1
Page 2 of 2
6.          Portfolio.  As indicated before, the BH's loan portfolio
(excluding other assets) is mainly composed of short-term credits (zl 912
billion vs zl 237 billion I/ of lorg-term loans as of June 30, 1989). This
four time excess of short-term ove. long-term loans is much lower than 12:1
ratio at the end of 1988, indicating an increasing interest of the BH in term
operations -both deposits and lending-with irdcI-'4ual enterprises.  The BH has
no central investment accounts, and only maw:ginaly uses preferential credit
lines of the NBP.
7.          Risk Exposure.  The BH is strongly exposed to a few large
enterprises. Outstanding credits given to its largest borrower represent 27X
of its capital. In addition, the outstanding credit of the three largest
borrowers and the ten largest borrowers represents 50 and 971, respectively,
of BH's capital. These large borrowers are major trading companies and their
borrowings are, in fact, short term revolving credit lines. The BH's
management considers that these operations have virtually no risk involved
since the bank can draw on the deposits or on export proceeds of the
borrowing companies. Any arrears appearing at the end of the reporting period
are expected to be repaid within the next month. Thus, the BH, like all other
banks in Poland, has no provision for doubtful loans or potential losses. The
credit distribution of its major long-term loans by economic activity are
presented in Table 2 of this annex.
1/     Balance sheet amounts adjusted by Bank mission based on
information received during review of BH's financial statements.



-  118 -                                                  Ane 5-1
PAD - I1SIAL EPOMRTDEL            PE     ICT                                   Table 1
DANK HAONIY
A.  BALANC SWEET (In Nillion Zlotyin
ASSETS                                 01101189       04/3@I39                 LIAILITIES                01/01/99       04I301/7
Cash                                        4,245       14,2      Dmand deposits tram housholds              22,222       35,594
In local currecy                         3,954       11,85S       In local curreny                        15114        21,905
In foruign currency                      2,21         2,445       In foreqn currency                       7,084       13,69
Current accont with NIP                   3237         331,451    Short-term oetsra  Imuseholds              27,7S2       18,354
Deposits with Nap                         290,000      512,875       In local currency                       27,          13,244
Obligatory resrve tar desits                0       22,875       In forign currency                         I0o 110
Other deposats                         290,040      40,t       Deposits trce other banks                       0            0
Foreign exchange depo its                    0            0       In local currec                              O            0
Deposits with toreign bnks              1,004,979    1,531,973       In toemn currency                            O            0
osits uith duesC banks                          0      200,000    Short ter  orroang from  I                      0            0
Short-term loning                         799,145   1,021,9       Retimncing credit                               O            0
In local currmncy                      704,415      901,55     Sort-term  urroW    1rom oter banks       307,143      473,974
Central Investments                          0                 Domd deoits frm   nstituotons             4n,244    1,297,895
Other oreterential credit                    0            0       In local currncr                       1,717        142,920
Own resurces                           704,415      901,165       In foreiqa currecy                         529    1      7145075
In foreign currency                    "9530        120,129     ema  depoits tram other baks           1,93253    3,724, 97
Overdue leans                             122,200       55,924       In local currncy                       139,135      290,299
In local currency                       41,100       27,962       In foreign currecy                   1.79340       .41.49
Central investmnts                           0            0    Loig-teti depets tre hmueOlids             26,991       4,256
Other prfrential credit                      0            0       In local currc                                            0
Own funds                               61,100       27,942       In foreign currencv                     26,99        44,254
In foreign currency                          0           0    Leoq-tereoe osts trm istitutions             7.150       11.500
Other current assets                      540,316      761,815       In local currncy                             O            0
Fixed assets                                  844        1,179       In torsipn currency                      7,150       11.500
Lon-term Ions                             59,221       99,437    Other Liabilitin (1)                      652,927      997,411
In local currency                        1,200        1,140
Central investents                           0            0
Other pretfrential credit                    0            0    Total Liabilitis                        3,151,286    6,009,551
Gon Funds                                1.20O        1,140    Of  ich: forteign currency              2,451,433    5,125,302
In foreign currency                     53,021       91,297
Other assts I1                           805,473    2.480,915    Equity                                    323,688      581,432
Caital                                 41,04        57,944
Fads                                   254,385     413,21
Total Assets                            3 799,62    7.182,420        Rsv                                      3,308        3,8
Of which: foreign currency              1,190,942    1,852,89        Retined earnings                        22,951      106,944
Special Accont                                540        1,200    Total ety and Liabilities               3,798.2    7,182,420
Socal and Husing Fun.                         474        1,100
Loans granted tre Housing Fund                 44          100    Secill Accounts                               540        1,200
Amunts due from the Central Budget                                Social Funds                                  191         536
ter serving the Polish Foreign Debt    15.347,173   .4,021,730    Honsing Fund                                  349 
State Foreign Debt                     15.347,173   24.021.730
Total assets. SCial Account and                                   Total Liabilitis. S cil Account
State Foreign Debt                     19,146,375   31,205,350    en State Foreign het                   19,146,375   31,205,350
D.  INCOME STATEMENT (In Nillion Zlotys)                          C.  FINANCIAL RATIOS                   Ol/0l1t9       06130199
las of 06/301991             CAPITAL AUIEACT
EqUity/Total Asts                           I.:21        8.1U1
INCOME                                                            Equty/Loans                                 33.01?      49.12:
Interest incom  in local currency         150,914                 DetEquity                                   9.736      10.248
Interest incoe in forein currncy           19,700
Total forei,o exchap net gain (loss)       (1,53I                 LIlIDITY
Othcr onatiLn in                           15,70                  Loaslpits                                   38.99.      22.97
TOTAL IIaNfE                         184,810                 Leid uasets/Deoits                        64.649        50.55
LO/Liabilitin  (2)                         68.902       76.40
EIPENSES                                                          LiauiO nu ts/U^eilan 12)                    51.601       43.10
Interest expense in local currency                                Lu          s
Inteest expnse in foreign currncy           4,084
Adinistrative costs                         2,343                 F0ITA0ILITr
OteOrcots                                       0                 Ar  tot  a s sts                      5,490.541.0
TOAL EVPENE                            4,534                 Ne    m/Aweagle Total assets1.:
Income bntefo  taxes                                             NIht Incmeu/Tota Equity                                  18.241
Incom  Tax                                 71.310                     Inom  t  otfllo                                      329
NET IED                              106.964                      3sT           a        s
Notes:  1) The  itms coar moUy sca    differentials derivd frm toreign traunctUins at different nomuul eachg ratn.
utlb shuld lUargl dar  at the yer.end balac  shet.
(2) Beas of Ir   mdntUfied asuts and liablities  those ratin are cmsedevnd  utt  limIitw *iiea,w,



- 119 -
ANM 5-1
Table 2
POLAND - TNDUSTRIAU EMPOMT DEVLMENT PROJECT
Bank Handlo
Sectoral Distribution of Naior LonA Term Loas
In Foreign Currencies
(as of June 30, 1989)
(millions of Zi)
S2ecificatign                                    Amount                    X
1.    Industrv and Minin;
a.    Coal, Coke and Energy
b.   Mettallurgy
c.    Electrical-engineering                9,380.0                 24.5
d.    Chemicals                               -
e.    Wood and Paper Products              11,371.7                 29.6
f.    Minerals                              1,305.8                  3.4
g.    Llght Industry                          _
h.    Textiles
i.    Leather                                 -
SUBTOTAL
2.   Agriculture and Forestry
(incl. Food Processing)                    15,617.6                40.8
3.   gonstruction
4.    TransDort and Public Utilities                699.4                  1.7
5.    Trade and Caterine                            _
6.    Other 
SUBTOTAL                ,fi.317.0
TOTAL                   38,375.3                 100.0
Source: Domestic Credit Department - Bank HAndlowy



- 120 -
AMNEX 5-2
Page 1 of 2
POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Export DeveloDment Bank (EDB)
Financial Position
1.          Size of Assets.  The EDB's balance sheet and income statement as
of December 31, 1988 and as of June 30, 1989, are summarized in Table 1 of
this annex. Over the first six month period of 1989, the EDB's total assets
increased In nominal terms by 273% (from zl 126.8 billion to zl 472.9
billion). While this increase was partly accounted for by a 79X increase in
lending operations, it also was due to large residual items of "other assets"
(and other liabilities) which represent various mid-year temporary balances
and foreign exchange settlements with the GOP resulting from periodic
devaluation of the zloty. The EDB's lending operations concentrate on loans
mostly denominated in foreign exchange granted to exporting enterprises.
NBP's refinancing credit amounts only to a marginal share of the EDB's total
credit.
2.          Canital Adeguacy.  The EDB's equity doubled in nominal terms
during the first six months of 1989, increasing from zl 12.1 billion to zl
24.2 billion. However, recent frequent devaluations of the zloty have not
been reflected in corresponding revaluations of its balance sheet items. In
order to maintain its capital base at the same level in dollar terms, the EDB
has instituted a special recuperation fund by reinvesting all profits '. On
the basis of its balance sheet as of June 30, 1989, the EDB's adjusted equity
to average total assets ratio was 7.6X 2/ and the adjusted debt to equity
ratio was 11.8:1.  Its equity to loans ratio amounted to a reasonable 21.7%
3.          Earning Performance.  The EDB was quite profitable in the first
half of 1989. Its net income of zl 10.6 billion represented 3.5X of the
average total assets and 43.9X of its equity. Earnings on its loan portfolio
amounted to 41, and its gross interest spread to assets ratio was 6X. About
two third of its gross profit came from net interest on loans, but one third
consisted of fees and commissions generated by its other foreign exchange
activities, primarily dollar auctions.
'/    At the official exchange rate prevailing in June 30, 1989 of US$1
- zl 844.6, the EDB's overall capital account was equal to US$
28.6 million equivalent, but it was worth only US$ 18.3 million
in September 30, 1989 when the official dollar rate was US$1 - zl
1,323.
1/     Excluding "other assets" and "other liabilities".  Both are
temporary items, which are to be eliminated or substantially
reduced by the year-end.



- 121 -
ANNEX 5-2
Page 2 of 2
4.          Liguidity.  The EDB adopted a high liquidity policy as a result of
its involvement in export financing, retained dollar accounts, and dollar
auctions. Its liquid assets to deposits ratio 'I was 47.5% as of June 30,
1989, which is much higher than the 30% safe standards.
5.          Portfolio Composition.  The EDB's loan portfolio was about zl 111
billion as of June 30, 1989, consisting mostly of short-term loans (91) in
foreign exchange (56%) to finance imported machinery and equipment. However,
it also has some long-term loans in zlotys. The EDB has no central investment
and all its loans are at variable interest rates. It normally uses a six-
month LIBOR rate plus up to 1.5% for its lending and it pays LIBOR less up to
1.5% on its time deposits. The EDB uses preferential export credit from NBP
only marginally, because of its own high liquidity levels and because of the
much higher spread it can charge on mobilized resources (ranging from 61% to
85% p.a.), compared to the fixed commission rate of 9% p.a. allowed on NSP
preferential credits. The EDB's credit distribution by sector of economic
activity are presented on Table 2 of this annex, the main activities financed
include metallurgy, wood and paper, and electrical industries.
6.          Risk Exposure.  In spite of its short-term financing, the EDB is
somewhat overexposed to individual enterprises. As of June 30, 1989, the
largest borrowing represented 50% of the EDB's capital and 10.8% of its loan
portfolio. The three and ten largest borrowers absorbed 19% and 31%,
respectively of its loan portfolio. Except for its exposure to the individual
borrower, the overall situation is acceptable considering the temporary short-
term nature of its lending. The EDB has introduced the practice of provisions
for doubtful loans, but because most loans are repayable from export proceeds,
retained dollar accounts and in the last resort, by the cosigner of the loan,
the bank has not called upon them.
Deposits include other liabilities but excluding NBP's refinancing



-  122  -                                                     Annex 5-2
PMlAMD - INDUTR14L EZPORT DEvELOPMIET PROECT                                          Table 1
EVORT DEVELOPMENT  ANK
A. BALANCE SHEEt lIn Nillion Zlotys)
ASSETS                                     01/01189       06/30189                    LIABILITIES                 01/01/89        06130189
Cash                                                3            35     Desand deosits ftrom households                     0           5b
In local currency                                3            2         In local currency                               0             0
In toruin currency                               0           33         In teresqn currency                             O            $6
Current aecount with NIP                       14,110       80,322      Short-term  meposts troe households           17,611       14,189
Deposits with NIP                                                                    c u rr local cunency                   0       33,135
Obligatory reserve tor deposits                  0             0        In foreign currency                        17,611       131,054
Other deposits                                   0             0     Deposits trou other banks                     12,476        21,036
Foreign exchange depoits                         0             0        In local currency                          10,000        10,000
Deposits with turein banks                     47,254        88,373        In foreign currency                         2,476        11,03b
Deposits  ith dsestic banks                       574       39.564      Short tere borrowing frwI NIP                       0            0
Short-term lending                             57,449       102.308     Refinancing credit                             10,000       10,000
In local currency                          27,101        40,119      Short-tern borrowing trom other banks              0             0
Central Investmnts                               0             0     Deend deoosats trou institutions                   0             0
Other preferential credit                        0             0        In local curr ncy                               0             0
Own resources                               27.101       40,119         In foreign currency                             o             o
In foreign currency                        30.348        62,189    ODand deposits troe other banks                      0            17
Overdue loans                                     276            80        In local currency                                Q            0
In local currency                              242            0         In foreign currency                             Q            17
Central investmnts                               0             0     Long-term deposits frog households                 0             0
Other oreferential credit                        0             0        In local currency                                            
Own tunds                                      242             0        In toreign currencv                             n             0
!n foreign currency                             34           80      Long-term oeoosits troB institutions               Q             0
Other current assets u11                        2.147       l52980         In locat currency                                             0
Fixed assets                                      171           234        In foreign currency                                           0
Lonq-teru loans                                 2.832         8,913     Other Liabilities tl)                          2,275       24,03
In- local currencv                         12,832         8,913
Central investments                              0            0
Other preferential credit                        0             0     Total Liabilities                            114,560       448,796
Oun Funds                                    2,832        8,913      Of wich: foreign currency                     22,285       151,629
In foreign currency                              0            0
Other assets                                    1,86t           150     Equity                                        12,122        24,163
Capital                                     7,371        7,934
Funds                                       1,869        5,632
Total Assets                                  126,682      472,959         Reserves                                        0             0
Of which: foreign currency                     77,636      236,419         Retained earnings                           2,882        10,597
Special Account                                    73           111     Total equity and Liabilities                 126,692       472,959
Social and Housing Fund                             2            13
Loans granted troat Housing Fund                   71            98     Special Accounts                                   7           111
Social Funds                                       21
Housing Fund                                      71            98
Total assets and Special Account              126,755      473.070      Total Liabilities and Special Account        126,75!       473,07(
0.   INCOME STATEMENT (In Million Zlotys)                               P.   FINANCIAL RATIOS                     01/01189        Otf30/89
(as of 06/30/8q)                CAPITAL ADEOUACY
income in local                 Equity/Total Assets                             9.5s7         5.112
INMCOItE                                                                Equity/Loans                                   20.022        21.? :
Interest income i  locl currency                8,318                   Debt/LEuity                                    9.451        18.57'
Interest income in foreign currency             4,S87
Total foreign exchange net gain floss!          6,038                   LIIIUIDITY
Other operatin  intone                          1,147                   Loans/Deposits                                343.062        67.762
TOTAL INCIE                              20,490                   Liouid assets/Oeoosits                         331.722      126.812
Loans/Dekosits  (2)                            62.702       60.30a
EIPENSES                                                                Liquid assets/Deposits  (2)                    59.20X        47.50%
Interest expense in local currency              2,142
Interest expense in foreign currency              432                   PROFITABILITY
Administrative costs                              254                   Average total assets                       299.820.5
Other costs                                         0                   Net Income/Averae  Total assets                               3.142
TOTAL EPE S                               2,828                   Net Income/Total Equity                                      43.86%
Net Income/Loan portfolio                                    9,522
Incoee before taxes                           17,662                    6ross stread/Total average assets                             5.982
Incom  Tax                                      7,063
NET INCONE                               10.599
Notes:  (I)  These sarge combined amounts represent various mid-year 1989 blances, vhich will partially disappear
at the end of the year.
(2) Includes Other liabilities. Beause of their composition, this ratio is more appropriate as a liquidity measure,



. - 123 -
ANNE 5-2
Table 2
POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPNT PROJECT
Exuort Develooment Bank
Sectoral Distribution of Major Loans
(as of June 30, 1989)
(millions of Zl)
Short, Term                      lonE I=r
SoecificaLion             AS2u-e           X               Amount             X
Industry                51,819.4           90.8          5,239.8'/        100X
Food Processing          1,642.7            2.9                             -
Construction                368.6           0.7
Transport                3,198.8            5.6
TOTAL                 57,029.5          100X           5,239.8          1001
I,-   Mainly Metallurgy, Food Processing, Paper, and Electrical Engineering
Industries.
Source: Export Development Bank



- 124 -
ANNME 5-3
Page 1 of 8
POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization and Performance of Commercial Banks
A. Structure and Organization of the Banking System
1.          The present banking system in Poland is the result of the Banking
Law and the Law of the National Bank of Poland (NBP), both of January 31,
1989. The main feature of these laws is breaking up the monopoly of the NBP
in providing commercial and investment credit services for economic units, and
setting-up nine autonomous and self-financed banks. These banks are still
100X state owned, and their basic administrative structure, credit policies
and procedures, appointment of top management, and a major part of their
investment portfolios have been determined by central authorities. However,
within the framework of the above laws and central bank's regulations these
banks have an ample opportunity for independent actions.
2.          The nine banks were created by conversion of major regional
offices of NBP into separate entities, each having in excess of 20 branches,
thus giving them a regional and national coverage. As a spin-off of NBP all
banks have identical basic organizations. Each bank is headed by the
President (appointed by the Prime Minister), who selects 2 Vice-Presidents
(VPs) and the rest of the top management. There is no Board of Directors.
Each bank has a President' Council, normally including both VPs, Director of
the Credit Department and one or two directors of branch offices who normally
rotate their membership in the Council with the rest of the branches. The
Council is purely advisory to the President. Some banks (e.g. Lodz) have an
advisory Workers' Council which is consulted on personnel related matters,
such as salaries, social benefits and contribution for social causes from the
bank's profits. The council, where in existence, has no direct influence on
the management's decisions.
3.          Basic functions of the regional banks are to accumulate savings,
extend credits and facilitate monetary settlements. In practice, however,
these standard commercial banking activities also include financing of long-
term loans for investment projects, making the banks multifunctional
institutions, combining commercial and investment activities.
4.          All financial activities with bank's clients are performed on a
branch level, and normally the headquarters have no direct relations with the
customers. Within the credit regulations issued by each bank's President (all
of which closely follow central guidelines of NBP) each branch Director is
fully responsible for all deposit and credit activities within his area of
influence. Through standardized financial reporting from the branches on
frequent periodic basis and special reports requested by the President, all of
which are analyzed by appropriate central departments, the management of the



- 125 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 2 of 8
bank supervises activities of each branch. In addition, each bank has a
central control office (4-5 people) which exercises a systematic control of
branch activities according to an annual program, and also make ad hoc visits
to individual branches to oversee special tasks assigned to them by the
President. The control office works exclusively for the President and it is
not responsible for the preparation or verification of the banks' financial
statements. All banks are in the process of introducing computer technologies
which should speed up internal reporting and improve the management control
system.
5.          Salaries of the President and both VPs are presently determined by
the Banking Council, a body representing various banks, the NBP, the Central
Planning Office, and the Ministry of Finance. The remuneration of other
managing officers and bank personnel is centrally regulated by the Council of
Ministers's Resolution of June 29, 1988, but salaries of professional
personnel and also of higher bank officers gradually are being decided by the
each bank's President, taking into account qualifications and special talent
needed. Such salaries are becoming competitive with the other industries.
B.    Lending Polices and Practices
6.          The overall deposit and credit polices for commercial banks are
determined by the Central Bank (NBP). Within this framework banks have to
apply same rules to all customers, both public and private, in accepting
deposits and making loans, following general criteria of efficiency and
reasonable banking risk.  However, in the present seller's market for credit,
banks tend to serve first their old and well known customers, making access to
credit for new applicants rather difficult.  On the other hand, a common
banking practice recently adopted is to require guarantee coverage not only
for the loan's principal but also for the projected interest payments for the
life of the loan, which makes any loan covered by a tangible collateral or
mortgage guarantee quite costly for any investor 'I.
7.          Denosits and Other Resources:  Banks can receive current accounts
(sight deposits) as well as savings and time deposits, both in zlotys and in
foreign currencies.  At this time, they may not lend in foreign exchange and
have to transfer the received currencies to the NBP.  Because of a gradual
devaluation of the zloty, the bank which has to carry foreign exchange
deposits in both currencies, will show losses in zlotys at the time the
foreign exchange deposit is withdrawn. While foreign exchange transactions
are now a minor part of banks' deposit activities, they could gradually reduce
their profitability and the capital base when the banks begin to operate in
foreign exchange in a larger scale. which is expected to occur shortly. If
l/     Assuming a 3 year loan of zl 10 million at 80X p.a. and mortgage
coverage of 1201, the collateral would have to be worth at least
zl 40 million at the time of loan the contract (zl 10 million x 10
(O.8W3) x 1.2 - zl 40 mln).



- 126 -
ANNE 5-3
Page 3 of 8
the inflation continues, periodic revaluation of assets and liabilities will
be necessary.
8.          Currently, interest rates on deposits vary from 36X for 3 months
to 66X for deposits over two years. The main source of income for the banks
derives from current accounts of institutions which pay no interest. In
addition to deposits and their modest capital resources banks make use of
rediscounting at the NBP within credit limits established by the NBP
(currently fixed at 601 of bank's outstanding credit as of January 1, 1989).
The present normal rediscounting rate is 56X p.a. (which is expected to be
raised to 72X during the last quarter of 1989). Within their overall credit
ceiling banks also make use of preferential credit lines of the NBP for
priority activities, such as agriculture, environment and housing at 22Z p.a.
and export development at 33Z. To these preferential (and centrally
subsidized) interest rates the banks may add a service charge of 91 for
relending to their qualified customers.
9.          Lending activities:  Banks lend for short-term working capital,
modernization and long-term investments mainly to their old customers who
maintain "basic accounts" in the bank. This term comes from previous banking
practices under which an enterprise could have only ane bank which served to
all its needs for investment and working capital, and was also financing its
purchases, transfers, personnel payroll, etc.. While the new banking law
promotes competition among banks and permits selection of both banks and
banking clients, the long history of banking monopolies and the continuation
of the seller's credit market cause the old practices still to prevail. This
makes financial and industrial restructuring imperative to permit rapid
progress in the modern competitive banking.
10.         The terms of lending vary somewhat among banks. The current
maximum lending interest rate of 1201 p.a. which is used only as penal rate
for overdue amounts. Typically, the lending interest rate varies between 65X
for up to one year credit and 80-901 for medium (up to 3 years) and long-term
loans. This rate structure gives the banks about a 202 spread over the
corresponding time deposits, and the full spread over the non-interest bearing
current accounts. These rates and spreads are quite high and make the banks
highly profitable. However, considering the present inflation rate in excess
of 1001 p.a., all the rates are negative in real terms v.
11.         Auroval Procedures:  All loans are processed by branches and the
present approval authority given by the bank' President to their branch
directors typically vary from zl 100 million to zl 1500 million. Loans over
these limits are appraised at the branch level, but are then sent to the
central Credit Department, which reviews them, mainly to determine limits to
the proposed financing in terms of bank's liquidity, lending ceiling, and
exposure to individual enterprises. Subsequently, the loan is approved by the
l / At an assumed inf'lation rate of 1501, the current interest rate of
801 p.a., becomes minus 281 in real terms.



- 127 -
ANNE 5-3
Page 4 of 8
President, but it is always signed by the branch director. There is no Credit
Committee and the President may seek professional staff advice at his
discretion. The establishment of a Credit Committee as an advisory body to
the President is recommended to enable him/her to obtain full expert advice
and to avoid arbitrariness in credit decisions. This Committee should
include, in addition to the President, one of the VPs, the director of the
Credit Department, the chief engineer and chief lawyer (optionally), as well
as other executives selected by the Presidents. The Committee should review
all investment projects and loans which amount is above the limit established
for branch directors; in addition it should review all major supervision
problems.
12.        , i.&a_   are received and reviewed at the branch level by
specialized credit personnel, first on a preliminary basis as to credit
worthiness (repayment feasibility), and then (for investment proposals) as to
the purposes and soundness of the proposed activity. For long-term investment
project a discount cash flow calculation of the project, in addition to the
enterprise' cash flow analysis for the credit duration and the examination of
the enterprise' financial statement for the last 3 years, are normally
performed. Each bank is equipped with experienced financial analysts and has
some engineers who serve both the central office and, as required, particular
branches. This pattern of nrolect annraisal could have been satisfactory for
the past no-risk banking system, under which the credit officer knew well the
financial situation of his few traditional clients (normally 3-5 are handled
by one credit officer), their managerial capability and main problems, as well
as main technical aspects of their projects (under monopolistic conditions no
market analysis was necessary). A gradual transfer to market economy and
competition would justify a deeper analysis and more sophisticated methodology
for appraisal of investment applications, including calculation of both the
financial and economic rate of return (IRk and ERR).
13.        SAuerisuion: All supervision functions are now performed by
branch personnel, except that a designated bank engineer may joint site visits
or review technical problems identified by the credit officer. The
supervision consists mainly of reviewing monthly, quarterly and annually
financial statements which each enterprise has to submit to the central
statistical office, and whose copies are received by the financing bank. In
case of significant changes in the borrower's financial position and/or delays
in the progress of the financed activity, the loan officer (often with an
engineer) goes on a site visit and prepares a written report with
recommendations to his director. Copies of this site reports are also
received by the central Credit Department. In case of a non-compliance with
the original credit agreement, the loan terms could be renegotiated. Because
of traditional one-to-one relations, loans are seldom called-off; rather
guarantee are tightened up, usually through required co-signing of the
renegotiated loan by another client of the bank. This systematic reviews of
financial position and the tight supervislon of the borrowers results in the
fact that arrears are rare, small and usually settled in a less than three
months time. A loan is considered overdue one day after the due date, and a
penal interest rate (currently up to 1202 p.a.) is immediately applied to the



- 128 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 5 of 8
overdue amount. The penal rate is not only harmful financially to the
borrower, but he has to show it on his records as extraordinary expenses that
are subject to special reviews by the authorities. To recover its overdue
money the bank has its first recourse to the borrower's basic account through
charges not only to the outstanding account but also to all incoming funds.
If this is not sufficient, it calls co-signer(s) of the loan and since they
normally are customers of the same bank, it proceeds to charge their accounts.
Normally, these procedures have been sufficient to recover all arrears in a
very short-time, and the banks were seldom requesting fixed-asset collateral
and/or mortgage guarantees. These were considered as non-redeemable, and
rightly so, since a sale of the state property, by a state bank, in a state
monopoly market, is hardly feasible. In presently changing new circumstances,
collateral requirements should to reviewed and updated. Overall, the
supervision function of the banks is quite satisfactory, except that it should
be reoriented from a pure control to an informal technical assistance that
banks could offer.
C.    CRparable Financial Positions
14.         Size of Assets.  The balance sheets and income statements of the
four regional banks are attached W. As of June 30, 1989, t:he total assets of
these banks were rather comparable, varying from zl 900 billion for WBK-Poznan
to zl 1,526 billion for PBG-Lodz. They all show a sizeable increases in
current zlotys in their loan portfolio between February 1, and June 30, 1989,
ranging between 341 and 381.
15.         Canital Adequacy.  All commercial banks obtained from the NBP only
very modest initial capital resources, ranging from 2% to 31 of their
respective total assets. Currently, they are still undercapitalized although
they more than doubled their capital base within the first five months of
their existence. As of June 30, 1989, their net worth to average assets ratio
varied from 7.71 for BPH-Cracow (compared to 2.91 as of January 31, 1989) to
5.91 for PBG-Lodz (compared to 2.61 as of January 31, 1989). Their debt to
equity ratio ranged between 12:1 to 15:1. Although still very low, these
indices show a big improvement since the banks' spin-off time from the NBP,
when their debt-to-equity ratios were within the 30:1 to 48:1 range.
16.         Earning Performance.  As of June 30, 1989, the return on assets
(ROA) for the four regional banks ranged from 3.71 to 5.61 and on equity, from
60.61 to 66.91. These figures are extremely high as compared with western
banks ard they also substantially exceed those of a comparable banking system
The statem6nt of Source and Applications of fund (cash flow) is
not currently prepared within the Polish bsnking system.



- 129 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 6 of 8
such as the Hungarian banking system."1 This is largely due to high interest
rates in inflationary conditions in Poland and very high interest spread over
interest-free enterprise' deposits which represent a large part of the total
deposits in the new commercial banks. At this time high profit of the banks
is the only source of the bank's capital growth. Since it is unlikely that
this trend in bank profits could continue even in the short-run, the banks
will have to look for alternative sources to increase their capital.
17.         Liquidity. All banks pay great attention to their liquidity; as a
result, their liquid assets-to-deposits ratios are all above 30X. On the
other hand, their loans-to-deposits ratios (excluding refinancing) are also
quite high (about 2:1), indicating a substantial use of refinanced credits
from the NBP. Refinancing from NBP among the new commercial banks ranges
between about 10 and 20.51 of the banks' loan portfolios.
18.         Portfolio ComipositioL. The banks inherited their portfolios from
the NBP and are now trying to improve their composition. Because of high
inflation, the proportion of long-term loans in the bank's portfolios is
decreasing ranging from 2.1X for WBK-Poznan to 6.11 for BPH-Cracow; and
currently it amount to less than one-half of all loans of each bank, except
for the PBG-Lodz which still shows about 641 of long term loans in its
portfolio, mainly due to the large amount of central investment loans.
19.         Central Investment loans which were included in the loans
portfolios transferred from the NEP had originally been granted under the
government credit programs to particular enterprises. These loans were
usually large, long term investments granted at fixed low interest rates (from
zero to 181 p.a). Also, they are fully financed by NBP refinancing facility
and fully guaranteed by the Treasure. Thus, in fact the banks administer
these loans, but often provide additional working capital on the revolving
basis, although using to a large extent NBP's refinancing. The distribution
of the central investment loans among banks is uneven: of the four banks
examined, PBG-Lodz has the largest share as central investment loans amounted
to about 551 of its total loan portfolio as of June 30, 1989. The least
involved in central investments is the NBK-Poznan having only 8.9Z of its loan
portfolio immobilized in these type of projects. The BPW-Cracow and PG-Gdansk
have 20.7X and 38.21 of their portfolios, respectively, in central investment
loans. The overall outstanding amounts of central investment loans increased
for all banks in current zlotys between February 1 and June 30, 1989, mainly
because of increasing amounts of revolving funds granted by the banks to the
enterprises carrying out these type of projects.  However, because serious
efforts undertaken by the banks towards reducing the overall participation of
the central investment loan in their loan portfolios, their share has declined
by amounts ranging between 1.51 in the case of NBK-Poznan to 3.11 in the case
of the PBH-Cracow. The PBG-Lodz managed to reduce its central investments
only by 1.71 The continued existence of central investment loans not only
V/     Respective ranges found in the Hungarian banking system as of
December 31, 1988, were 1.21 to 1.71 and 161 to 221.



-130 -
ANNE 5-3
Page 7 of 8
immobilizes banks' resources in a limited number of big enterprises, but it
also endangers their very weak capital base, due to a high risk of
concentration in a few enterprises. In many cases, the outstanding central
investment loans exceed the capital of each of the banks, and in the case of
PBG Lodz they are six times larger than the bank's own resources. The worst
situation in this respect is presented by PBG-Lodz and BG-Gdansk where one
single central investment enterprise represents 261X and 317X of the banks'
net worth respectively, and about 19X of all assets in both cases. Because of
this situation, lending limit restrictions established by the banking law has
been waived for the banks exposure in enterprises implementing central
investment projects. Unfortunately, banks can do nothing by themselves to
remedy this situation. The only real solution would be to remove all central
investment projects from the banks' portfolios listing them "below the line"
of the balance sheet. The banks' could then administer them at an agreed fee,
but should not be required to provide working capital from their own
resources. This solution would be realistic considering that central
investments were made by the government in the first place.
20.         Fixed Interest Loans.  In the inherited portfolios the banks had
many long-term loans at a fixed interest rate, many of which were also central
investments. Because these loans were paying very low interest rates and
implied losses in view of rising deposit rates, all banks undertook an
energetic action to renegotiate them either voluntarily or by taking advantage
of any non performance event that would permit renegotiation of the old
contract. As the last resort, some banks went to the court to have the fixed
interest rate readjusted and changed to variable. They mostly failed when the
loan contract unequivocally provided for the fixed rate to maturity, or
because some judges considered social benefits of productive enterprises to be
more important that the interest of a banking institution. Overall, however,
the banks have been very successful in renegotiating fixed interest loans
whose amounts decreased between February 1 and June 30, 1989 by 321 in the
case of PBG-Lodz, and by as much as 771 in the case of BPH-Cracow. The
decreasing importance of the fixed interest loans is also evident in a
decreasing share of these loans in the banks' portfolios which was reduced by
1.8S for PBG-Lodz, by 2.21 for NBK-Poznan, and by 7.6X for PG-Gdansk and the
largest drop of 22.4X in the case of BPH-Cracow. As the result of these
efforts all banks show in excess of 921 of their portfolios in variable
interest loans, with PBG-Lodz and WsBK-Poznan, both showing the best position
of 98.1X.
21.         Risk  osure.  Another inherited problem from the NBP's is large
concentration of loans in a limited number of large enterprises. According to
present rules, each bank exposure may not exceed 152 of its total resources
(capital and liabilities) to one borrower, and 101 to one project. As a
measure of risk exposure this limit is unrealistic and should be changed.
Instead a meaningful exposure limit in relations to banks' own funds (net
worth) should be established. On this basis, banks' exposure is presently
very high. As of June 30, 1989 the lowest outstanding loan to capital ratio
was 772 in the case of PBH-Cracow, and the highest was 3172 in the case of
PBG-Lodz. This includes central investments. Ratio of the total of 10



- 131 -
AM 5-3
Page 8 of 8
largest loans to capital was the lowest in the case of NIBK-Poznan (303X) and
the highest in the case of PBG-Lodz (7572). With respect to the total loan
portfolio, the 3 largest borrowers represented 53.3X in the PBG-Lodz and 132
in the WBK-Poznan. As indicated above the PBG-Lodz and BG-Gdansk have the
most serious exposure problems, due to their large portfolios of central
imestments.
22.         External Audit. At this time there is no independent external
audit of banks in Poland. Balance sheets and profit are loss statements are
internally prepared by each bank's accounting department. They are then sent
to the Revenue Office for checking and determinatiow  of income tax, they are
also informally reviewed by the NBP. For the first time, in 1990, the
financial statements of the nine regional banks for the year-end 1989 are to
be audited by external certified accountants selected from a national list of
qualified public accountants. As yet, there is no recognized standard for
such an audit.



-  132  -                                                        Annel 5-3
Table I
POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPNENT PROJECT                                         Page I of 4
BANK FOR INDUSTRY AND TRADE-CRACOU
A.   BALANCE SHEET lIn Nillion Zlotys)
ASSETS                                     01011/8S9       0630189                     LIABILITIES                  01/0l//9        06/30/89
Cash                                            85163         79,975     Desand deposits from households                  7.643       13,392
In local currency                           93,0S0        77,086         In local currency                               55             7
In foreign currency                          2,073         2,089         In foreign currency                          7,588        13.355
Current account with N1P                       136,176        22,704     Short-tere deposits from households             3,164         6.642
Denosits with NIP                                    0        50,562         In local currency                           '.982         6,317
Obligatory reserve for oeposits                   0       50,562         In foreign currency                            162           3.5
Other deposits                                    0             0     Deposits frot other banks                            0        0,000
Foreign exchange deposits                         0             0        In local currency                                0        50,000
Deposits with foreign banks                          0             0        In foreign currency                               0            0
Deposits with donstic banks                          0             0     Short term oarroming from NIP                        0            A
Short-term lending                            325,514       484,345      Refinancing credit                            583,133       420,463
In local currency                          325.514       484,345      Short-term borrowing from other banks               n             0
Central Investmnts                           7.514         7,514      Demand deposits from institutions             285,436       438,035
Other Preferential credit                   70,958        77,714         In local currency                          264,714       382,719
Own resources                              247,042       399,117         In foreign currency                         '0,722        55,316
In foreign currency                               0            0      Demand deposits trom other banks                1,478         8,349
Overdue loans                                   6.546        15,979         In local currency                            1.478         8,349
In local currency                            6.54t        15,979         In foreign currency                              0             0
Central investments                               0             0     Long-term oeoosits from households             20,110        37,610
Other preferential credit                         0             0        In local currencv                                0         1,276
Own funds                                    6,546        15,979         In foreign currencv                         20.110         6,334
In foreion currencv                               0                   Lana-term oceosits fros institutions            2.999         6.36t
Other current assets                            30.798        9.905         In local currencv                            2.78'         6.306
Fioxe  assets                                    1.631        :.935          In toresian currencv                          215            to
Lono-ters loans                               357,61r        422.090     Other Liabilities                              11,85         54,332
In local currency                          357,613       422,090
Central investments                        156.171       183,582
Other preterential credit                   53,099       '70,14       Total LiabLiltles                             915.81'    1,035.10i
Own Funds                                  148,343       168,36:      Of wich: foreign currency                      489817       105,390
In foreign currency                               0            0
Other assets                                         P       33,691      Equity                                         27,626        85,999
Capital                                    19,549        19.835
Funds                                           77          610
Total Assets                                   943.441    !,121.189         Reserves                                     8.000        89000
Of which: foreign currency                       2.073        2,899         Retained earnings                                 0       57.553
Special Account                                     28            70     Total eouity and Liabilities                  943,441    1,121,199
social and Housing Fund                              2            47
Loans granted tro  Housing Fund                     26            23     Special Accounts                                   28            70
Social Funds                                        2            50
Housing Fund                                       26            '0
Total assets and Speacial                                                                              Account         943.49 4.6191.'i9
D.   INCOE STATENENT (In Killion Zlotys)                                      FINANCIAL RATIOS                      01/01/99        06/30/89
as of 06/30/099                 CAPITAL ADEQUACY
-               Equity/Total Assets                               2.93?         1.671
INCOME                                                                   Eouity/Loans                                     4.01?         9.327%
Interest income in local currencv             150,427                    DebtiEquity                                   '3.130         12.037
Interest incm  in foreign currency                   0
Total foreign exchanqg  net gain (loss)         (2,580)                  LIQUIDITY
Other ooeratin  incom                          14,862                    Loans/Deoosits                                 214.97%       150.73%
TOTAL INCOME                             162,709                    Liouid assets/Deposits                          68.99%        30.0:1
EXPSES                                                                   PROFITABILITY
Interest exoense  in local currency            64,719                    Average total assets                      1,032,315.0
Interest eoxmnse in foreign currency              450                    Net Inco e/lAverae Total assets                                5.59%
Administrative costs                             1,619                   Net Income/Total Equity                                       66.92%
Other costs                                          0                   Net Income/Loan worttolio                                      6 241
TOTAL EXPENSES                            66,707                    Gross spread/Total average assets                              9 45%
Incose before tUxs                             953 22
Income Tax                                     3  569
NET INCOME                                57,553



-  133 -                                                 Annex 5-3
PULED - INDUSTRIAL EPT  DEUMlT PRECT                                                Tpale 1
6REAT POLAD CREDIT OANX-POZIAN
A.   BALACE SHEET (In Million Zlotys)
ASSETS                                    01/O1O 9        06130119                   LIABILITIES                 01/01/89       06/30/89
Cash                                          76,156        84,249     Deund deposits fron households                    93          023
In local currency                          73,260       81,006         In local currencY                               3          715
In foreign currency                         2,896        3,243         In foreign currency                            90          108
Current account with NSP                      82.051        74,894     Short-term otPoosts fron households          343,589      130.478
Deposits oith NIP                                  0        29.014        In local currency                         331,855       93,941
Obligatory reserve for deposits                 0        29.014        In foreign currency                        11,734      3t,537
Other deposts i                                                      eposits rom other bans                         412       64,769
Foreign exchange depsits                        0             0        In local currency                            4U2        64769
Denosats with foreign banks                        0             0        In foreign currmey                              0            0
Deposits with doentic banks                        0             0     Short tore borrwing trom NIP                       0            0
Short-tere lending                           316,329       462,278     Refinancing credit                           394,016      363,273
In local currency                         316,329      462.278      Short-tere borrowing trom other banks             0             0
Central lnvestments                             0             0     DOmnd deposits tom institutions               89,737      172,201
Other preterential credit                  64,900       105,200        In local currency                          89,B78      172,201
Own resources                             251,529       3)7,0)8        In foreign eurrency0                                         0
In foreign currencv                             0             0     Demand deposits tros other banks                   0       28,09
Overdue loans                                    247         4,990        In local currencv                               0       28,0s9
In local currency                             247        4,890         In foreign currency                            0             0
Central investments                             0             0     Long-term deposits trog housholds             16,477       31,226
Other preterential credit                       0             0        In local currency                               0            0
Own funds                                     247         4,890        In foreign currencv                        16,477       31.226
In foreion currency                             0             Q     Lono-tere eoosits from ins.tutions              2i9           531
Other current assets                         255.324        51n local currency                                            0            5
Fixed assets                                   1.172         2,137        In toreign currency                           219          526
LonQ-tere loans                              159,984       191.703     Other Liabilities                             28.497       55,242
tn local currency                        159,984       191.703
Central investments                        49,579        58,346
Other preferential credit                  29,900        30,035     Total Liabilities                           873,090       846.642
Owm Funds                                  90,505       103,322     Of vich: foreign currenc                     28,520       6B,397
tn foreign currency                             0             0
Other assets                                       0             0     Equity                                        18,173       54,257
Capital                                   13,173        15,153
Funds                                          Q         1,082
Total Assets                                 891,263      900.899         Reserves                                   5.000         5,000
Ot which: foreign currencv                     2,896         3.243        Retained earnings                               0       33,022
Special Account                                   32            51     Total Liabilities and Equity                891,26;       900,899
Social and Housing Fund                            3             9
Loans granted tram Housing Fund                   29            42     Special Accounts                                  32           A1
Social Funds                                      3             9
Housing Fund                                     29            42
Total assets and Special Account             891,295       900,950     Total Liabilities Eouitv ano
Special Account                             391,295      900,950
B.   INCOhE STATENENT (In Million Zlotys)                              C.   FINANCIAL RATIOS                    01/01/89        06/30/89
(is of 06/30/89)               CAPITAL ADEWUCY
Eeuitv/Total Assets                            2.042         6.021
INCOME                                                                 Equity/Loans                                   3.812         8.23%
Interest income in local currency             95.230                   Debt/Equity                                  48.043        15.604
Interest income in foreign currency                0
Total foreign exchange net gain (loss)          (671)                  LIOUIDITY
Other operating income                         7,600                   Loans/Deocaits                               105.862       181.33:
TOTaL InCOlME                           102,159                   Liquid assets/Deposits                        35.1          517H
EXPENSES                                                               PROFITABILITY
Interest exp@nse in local currency            44,785                   Anrage total assts                        896,08l.0
Interest exoense in foreign currency             295                   Net Incon/Averag e t otal ast9ts              0.69.
Administrative costs                           2,043                   Net IncoeiTotalUEquity                                      60.862
Other costs                                        0                   Net Incme/Loan cortfolio                                     Xi012
TOTAL EXPENSES                           47,123                   6ross spread/Total averagt assets                            6.371
Income before taxes                           55.036
Income Tax                                    22.014
NET INCOME                               33,022



-  134 -
POLAND - INDUSTRIAL E lT  OEVELUPIEIN  PRWECT                                    A      U6r I
--NK OF GDANSK                                                     Page 3 of 4
A. BALANCE SHEET (In Million llotvs)
ASSETS                                  01101/89        06/30/89                  LIAIILITIES                01101/89       06/301 
Cash                                         57,715       54,506     Dnand deposits from houeholds               7.307        13,067
In local currency                        56,533       52,355        In local curreny                              3            3
In foreign currencv                       1,182        2,151        In foreign currency                       7,304       13.064
Current account with NIOP                   125,834       67.858    Short-ttro  oposits from boueholds               0        S,687
Deposits with NBP                                0        35,814       In local currency                             0        5,697
Obligatorv reserve tor deposits               0       35.814        In foreign currency                           0            0
Other depoits                                 0             0     Deoosits from other bnks                        0            0
Foreign exciange deposits                     0             0        In local currency                            0            0
Deoosits with foreign banks                      0            0         In foreign currency                          0            0
Degosits with dMestic banks                      0            0     Short term borroing from NUP               284.862      280.133
Short-term lending                         315,63       466,103     Refinancing credit                         329,064      324,520
In local currency                       315,663      466,103     Short-tm  borowing tro  other banks              0            0
Central Invetments                            0            0     Dmnd deoit fro  institutions               220,223      297,314
Other preferential credit                     0            0        In local currncy                        206,035      229,99
Own resources                           315.663      466.103         In foreign currency                     13,389       67,316
In foreign currency                           0            0     Demad deposits from other banks                  0       17,239
Overdue loans                                    0            0         In local currncy                             0       17,239
In local currency                             0            0        In foreign currency                           0            0
Central investmets                            0             0    Long-tere ePosits from households           18,776       34,710
Other preferential credit                     0            0        In local curncy                               0            0
Omn funds                                     O            0         In foreign currency                     19.76        34,710
In foreign currency                           0            0    Lonq-tare deposits tros institutions          3.063        7,305
Other current assets                        37,508        4 558        In local currency                         2,766        6.604
Fixed assets                                   993        1.324        In foreign currency                         297          621
Lono-term loans                             343,093     438.905     Other Liabilities                           16,798       57,810
In- local currency                      343,093      438,905
Central investments                           0            0
Other preferential credit                     0            0    Total Liabilities                           980,093    1,038,170
Olm Funds                               343,093       438,905    Of uich: toreiqn currency                   39,765      115,711
In foreign currency                           0            0
Other assets                                     0       35,613     Equity                                      28.893       79,709
Capital                                  19,893      20,254
Funds                                        0          467
Total Assets                               908.976    1.117.079        Reserves                                  9,000        9,000
Of uhich: foreign currencv                   1,182        2,151        Retaineo earnings                             0       49,988
Special Account                                 44          126     Total equity and Liabilities               908,976    1,117,879
Social and Housing Fund                          3           83
Loans granted tro  Housing Fund                 41           43     Special Accounts                                44          126
Social Funds                                    3            55
Housing Fund                                   41           71
Total assets and Special Account           909.020      :18100'    Total Liabilities and Soecial Account       909,020    1.118.0o
S.   INCOIE STATEMENT (In Million Zlotys)                           C.  FINANCIAL RATIOS                    01101/69       06/30/89
1as of 06/30/6S1              CAPITAL ADEOUJCY
Equity/Total Assets                          3.192         7.131
INCOME                                                              Equity/Loans                                  4.392        98.12
Interest incomn in local currencv          150,564                  hbt/Equity                                  30.460       13.02!
Interest incom  in foreign currency              0
Total foreign exchange net gain floss)      (2,994)                 LIQUIDITY
Other onerating income                          51                  Loans/Deposits                              264U172      241.13I
TOTAL INCOME                          147,721                  Liquid assets/hposits                        73.612       42.142
EIPENSES                                                            PROFITABILITY
Interest esense in local curencv            61,505                  Average total assets                   1,013,427.!
Interest expense in foreign currency           783                  Net Incom/Average Total asuts                              4.932
Administrative costs                         2,119                  Net Incoe/Total Eouity                                    62.712
Other costs                                      0                  Net IncomelLoan Pootfolio                                  5.522
TOTAL EIPENSES                         64,407                  Bross spread/Total average assts                           8.432
Income before taxes                         93.314
Income Tax                                  33,326
NET INCE                               49.989



-135 -                                                       tab    1
POUIID - INDUSTRIAL EIPORT QEVELOPIENT PROECTT                                       Paoe 4 of 4
NATIONAL ECONONIC BANK - LODZ
A.   BALANCE SHEET Iln Million Zlotys)
ASSETS                                    01/01/99        06/30I89                   L14BILITIES                 01101/89       06I301ES
Cash                                          62.989        80,712     Dmand deposits from households                 3,757        6,715
In local currency                          61.427       78,493         In local currency                              20           20
In foreign currency                         1.562        2.219         In foreign currency                         3,757        6.695
Current account vith N1P                      79,189        67,953     Short-term deposits from households                0            0
Deoousits uith NIP                                 0        30,580        In local currency                               0            0
Obligatory reserve for deposits                 0        30,580        In foreign currencv                             0            0
Other deP oits                                  0             0     Deposits from other banks                          0            0
Foreign exchange deposits                       0             0        In loal currency                                0            0
Deposits with foreign banks                        0             0        In foreign currency                             0            0
Depoits with domtic banks                          0             0     Short term borroWing from NIP                      0            0
Short-term  lending                          269.608       408.928     Refinancing credit                           908,685      840,997
In local currency                         269,608      408,928      Short-tere borroving from other banks              0            0
Central Investments                             0             0     Demnd deposits from institutions             361,737      506,843
Other preferential credit                  55,413        83,582        In local currency                         345,144      444,969
On resources                              214,195       325,346        In foreign currency                        16,593       61,874
In foreign currency                             0             0     Deand deposits trom other banks                  430        4.512
Overdue loans                                    430         3,579        In local currency                             430        4,512
In local currency                             438        3,579         In foreign currency                             0            0
Central investuents                             0             0     Long-tere deposits froe households             6,873       13,614
Other preterential credit                       0             0        In local currency                               0        1,112
Own funds                                     430         3,579        In foreign currency                         6,873       12,502
In toreien currencv                             0             0     Long-tere memits from institutions             1,719        3,131
Other current assets                         227.495       179,354        In local currency                           1,170        2.639
Fixed assets                                     740         1.220        In foreign currenLv                           549          492
Lono-ters Ioans                              583,427       736.182     Other Liabilities                              8.943       59,859
In local currencv                        583.427      736,192
Central investments                       480.032      626.766
Other preterential credit                  30'110        34,293     Tntal Liabilities                          1,192.144    1.435,671
Own Funds                                  73.205        75,123     Of wich: foreign currency                     27,752       91,563
In foreign currency                             0             0
Other assets                                       0        17,8t7     Equity                                        31,742       9,722
Capital                                   22.742        23,064
Funds                                          0         3,658
Total Assets                               1.223,886    1,526.393         Reserves                                    9,000        9,000
Of which: foreign currency                     1.562         2.21S        Retained earnings                               0       55,000
Special ccount                                    22            00     Total Liabilities and Equity               1.223.886    1,526,393
Soial and Housino Fund                             2            30
Loans granted froe Housing Fund                   20            50     Special Accounts                                  22           80
Social Funds                                      2            30
ousing Fund                                      20            50
Total assets and Soecial Account           1,223.908    1.526.47:      Total Liabilities. Eouitv and              1.223.909    1,526.473
Seecial Account
B.   INCONE STATEKENT (In MiliLon Zlotys)                              C.  FINANCIAL RATIOS                     01/01/89        06130/69
(as of 06/30/89)               CAPITAL ADEQUACY
Equity/Total Assts                             2.59         5.941
INCE                                                                   Equity/Loans                                   3.72:         7.90l
Interest incom  in local currency            173.63                    Debt/Equity                                  37.557        15.825
Interest incom  in foreign curency                 0
Total foreign exchange net ain (loss)         (2.368)                  LIQUIDITY
Cttmr ou ;::n- la:=e                           8.920                   Loans/Deoits                                  227.89      214.78t
TOTAL liN&                              180.235                   Liquid assets/Deosits                         37.961        33.52S
EIPEISES                                                               PROFITABILITY
Interest expense in local currency            83.239                   Average total assets                    1.375.139.S
Interest expnse in toreign currency              282                   Net Income/Aerage Total assets                               4.00O
Administrative costs                           5.046                   Net Incom/TotaL Equity                                      60.621
Other costs                                        0                   Net Income/Loan Portfolio                                    4.791
TOTAL EXPEISES                           88,567                   Bross spread/Total avmrace assets                           7t032
Incoe before taxes                            91 668
Incom  Tax                                    36.668
NET INCOIE                               55.000



POIAND  -  INLUSTRIAI. EXPORT  DEVEI-OPMENT  PROJECT
Financial  Performance  of  Selected  New  C'iInwt.rcial_Ranks
.................................... ....................................................................... ................................... ................................................ ..... ...... ....... ....... ......
INkoCATOR/BAIB                             BANK FOR INDUSTRY AND TRADE-CRACOU CREAT POLAND CREDIT BANK-POZNAN                 BANK OF GOANZ                   NATIONAL ECOWONIC BANK-LOCZ
JAN 3i, 89      JuaE 30, 89            JAN 30, 89       JUNE 30, 89               JAN 31, 89    JUnE 30, 89    JAI 31, 89   JUNE 30, 89
APITAL ADEWACT
EU0ITYITOTAl ASSETS (t)                      2.9               7.7                  2.0              6.0                      3.2                7.1            2.6            5.9
0WITTALORNS tl)                              4.0               9.2                  3.8              8.2                      4.4                8.3            3.7             7.9
DT/EU.fUIlT                                 33.1              12.1                 48.0             15.6                     30.4               13.0           37.6            15.8
LIWIDITY
LQANS/DEPOSITS (X)                           215               180                  106              181                      264                241            228            215
LIUID ASTSE5DEPOSITS (2)                      69                30                   35               52                       73                 42             38              33
P1011TABILI TI
NET INCWE/AVERAU TOTAL ASSETS (X)    U.A                       5.6                        L.A        3.7                       M.A               4.9                 l.A        4.0
MEt INWUTTOTAL EWIT? (2)                    N.A              66.9                         U.A       60.9                       U.A              62.7                LUA        60.6
UT IUPCGE/LOAN PORTFOLIO (2)                LA                 6.2                        N.A        5.0                       R.A               S.5 S.A                        4.8
CROSS SPREA/AVERAGE TOTAL ASSETS (X)  N.A                     9.4                         N.A        6.4                       N.A               8.4                ULA         2.0
..... ...... .................... ....................................... .......... ..................  ................... ....................   ---------------------------------------. .
SOURCE:   MISSION ESTIMATES BASED ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF BANKS



- 137 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 1 of 16
POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Scone of SRecial Auditing for garticinatine Banks
1.    Auditor(s) should provide independent opinions and related reports for
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 1989 for the banks
seeking its (their) services. These reports and opinions are to be drawn in
accordance with the recommendations of the International Accounting Standards
Committee.
2.    Draft reports are to be submitted to the Bank not later than September
31, 1990.
ReRorts to be Provided by the Auditor
3.    The following documents constitute the annual financial statements for
the fiscal year to be audited:
(a)   Balance sheet as of December 31, 1989
(b)   Profit and Loss Statement for the year ended December 31, 1989
(c)   Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
(d)   Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds
(e)   Statement of Provisions for Losses, Write-Offs, and Recoveries
(f)   Statement of Past Due, Nonperforming, and Renegotiated Loans and
Advances
(g)   Statement of Commitments and Contingencies
Where the bank is a subsidiary of another organization or where it has a
controlling interest in any other organization, consolidated statements should
also be audited.
4.    The reports to be provided by the auditor(s) should consist of the
following documents:
(a)   the annual financial statements referred to above, after
appropriate adjustments;
(b)   the basic audit opinion rendered of the financial statements;



- 138 -
A=E 5-4
Page 2 of 16
(C)   a Statement of the Effects of Non-Application of any IFAC Auditing
Standards by the auditors;
(d)   an evaluation of the quality of assets.  This evaluation should
identify problem assets and classify them according to criteria
for substandard, doubtful, and loss categories (or other criteria
acceptable to the Central Bank).V  Assets which are classified
should be identified as to state or private ownership. Actual and
potential losses should be clearly identified.
(e)   an opinion on the adequacy of the reserve for loan losses and
other valuation reserves. The auditor should clearly demonstrate
the methodologies used to determine the level of reserves
considered as adequate including the amounts set aside as specific
reserves and general reserves.
(f)   an enumeration and quantification of all adjustments necessary to
fairly present the financial statements.  These adjustments may
include additional provisions to the loan loss and other valuation
reserves, the suspension of interest accrual on loans and advances
which are judged to be non-performing, assets which are to be
written-off, foreign exchange losses, income which is to be
restated, or any other adjustments which materially affect the
financial statements;
(g)   the identification and quantification of concentrations of credit
representing 5X or more of capital, with particular emphasis
placed on credit extended to connected borrowers or major economic
sectors, Connection implies the ability to exert control or
influence policy and decision-making. Connected parties or firms
typically include a firm's parent, major shareholders,
subsidiaries, affiliated companies, directors, and executive
officers.
(h)   the identification, quantification, and status of credit extended
to insiders of the bank or financial institution and their related
interests. Insiders typically include directors, executive
officers, major shareholders and their related interest;
(i)   during the audit of the profit and loss account, the auditor
should suggest areas and manner in which greater efficiencies in
costs and expenditures may be achieved;
(j)   an opinion on internal controls and procedures in place, including
written policies and procedures, accounting and administrative
/ See Annex I & II for suggested standard on treatment of non-accrued
interest and definitions of substandard, doubtful, and loss assets.



-139 -
ANNU 5 - 4
Page 3 of 16
controls, budgeting, internal audit, and management information
systems. To the extent that weaknesses are detected, appropriate
recommendations should be made to strengthen or correct them;
(k) an evaluation of foreign exchange risk. The auditor should
determine the extent of actual and potential foreign exchange
losses and assess the controls and procedures in place to manage
foreign exchange risk;
(1) an evaluation of liquidity, asset and liability management risks.
The auditor should report significant exposures to changes in
interest rates and comment upon procedures and controls in place
to manage interest rate risk. The auditor should also comment if
liquidity support is being provided by any organization, such as a
state enterprise, anothar bank or financial institution, or the
goverrment;
(m)   an opinion as t. -ae adequacy of capital.  To the extent that
capital is inadequate to support present and future operations,
the auditor should recommend the amount of additional capital
which is adequate;
(n) an evaluation of compliance with banking laws, rules, and
regulations and covenants of significant legal agreements;
(o) any other views or results from audit as to the future prospects
of the bank or financial institution to continue and compete as a
viable on-going concern.
Scope of Auditine Renort
5.    (a)  The Auditing Report should be carried out in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards of field work and reporting. The report
should indicate: (i) the extent that you could not conform to the standards;
(ii) the extent that the standards you propose to use do not conform to the
auditing standards of the International Federation of Accountants; and (iii)
any alternative standards to which you propose to conform.
(b) The report should comment on the accounting principles adopted by
the bank, particularly to confirm, or otherwise, whether and-to what extent
generally accepted accounting principles and accounting standards have been
and are being consistently applied, and to indicate specifically the adoption
of any other principles and their effect on the annual financial statements.
(c) The auditor will be required to plan and conduct its work on the
basis of an audit program sufficiently expansive in covering the bank's
activities to enable it to sign the opinions and reports it is required to
provide.



- 140 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 4 of 16
(d) The auditor firm will be required to take into consideration the
effectiveness and reliability of the accounting and administrative procedures,
as well as the financial and administrative internal controls and checks. It
should determine that assets are being adequately safeguarded, that
transactions have been executed in accordance with policy, and that
transactions have been adequately recorded to permit timely preparation of
financial statement in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. Systems of internal controls and checks, including internal
audit, should be reviewed and evaluated in order to determine the degree of
reliance that can be placed upon them.
(e) The auditor will assess the quality of assets. In making its
assessment, the auditor should consider: (1) the level, distribution, and
severity of classified assets; (2) the level and composition of non-accruing,
non-performing, and reduced rate assets; (3) the adequacy of valuation
reserves, (4) management's ability to administer and collect problem assets;
(5) undue concentrations of credit; and (6) adequacy, effectiveness, and
adherence to lending policies and credit administration procedures.
(f) In assessing the quality of assets, the auditor is to ensure not
less than seventy percent coverage of the portfolio of loans and advances.
Past due loans and advances, renegotiated loans and advances, internally
identified problem loans and advances, loans and advance to insiders and their
related interest, investments, equity participation, foreclosed or repossessed
properties, contingent liabilities and guarantees, and miscellaneous assets
should also be appraised. In addition, a sample of loans and advances below
the cutoff amount, not otherwise selected for review, should be appraised. In
assessing the quality of assets, primary emphasis should be placed upon the
borrower's ability to repay. Collateral support should normally be of
secondary importance.
(g) The auditor will be required to appraise the adequacy,
effectiveness and application of policies and procedures for: (1) the granting
of credit, including procedures for approving credit, establishing and
enforcing repayment programs, collecting past due loans, provisioning for
actual and potential losses, writing-off of bad assets, debt recovery, and
management reporting; (2) managing foreign exchange risk, including trading
limits, the segregation of duties, accounting and revaluation procedures, and
management reporting requirement; and (3) asset and liability management,
including procedures for managing exposure to changes in interest rates.
Where deficiencies have been identified, the auditing firm should propose
recommendations for strengthening or correcting the weaknesses.
(h) the auditor should satisfy itself as to the fairness and accuracy
of the financial statements provided. Where the financial statement are
inaccurate or unfairly represent the condition of the bank or financial
institution, the auditor will be required to itemize and quantify the
necessary adjustment. Special emphasis should be placed upon: (1) the
adequacy of provisions for losses and adjustment necessary to bring valuation



- 141 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 5 of 16
reserves to adequate levels; (2) adjuswtment to the profit and loss statement
for interest taken into income on non-performing assets; (3) adjustment to the
profit and loss statement for past due interest which has been capitalized,
renegotiate, or refinanced.
(i) The auditor should identify, quantify, and appraise concentrations
of credit with particular emphasis on credit extended to: (1) insiders and
their related interests; (2) connected parties; and (3) major economic
sectors. For the purpose of these diagnostic studies, concentrations are
defined as any credit or combination of credit representing 5% or more of
capital.
(j) The auditor should assess tLe quality of earnings, giving
appropriate consideration to: (1) the accuracy of reported earnings; (2) the
level quality and composition of income and expense components; (3) earnings
trends; and (5) dividend payout and earnings retention.
(k) The auditor should comment on liquidity, asset and liability
management risks, giving appropriate consideration to : (1) the volatility of
deposits; (2) the frequency and level of borrowings; (3) the reliance placed
on interest-sensitive funds; (4) access to many markets or other ready sources
of cash; (5) the ability to readily convert assets into cash; (6) the capacity
to meet unexpected deposit withdrawals and other demands for payment; (7) the
ability to readily full reasonable credit demands; (8) the overall adequacy,
effectiveness, and compliance with liquidity, asset and liability management
policies; and (9) the nature, volume, and anticipated usage of credit
commitments, contingent liabilities, and guarantees.
(1) The auditor should determine solvency and assess the adequacy of
capital. It should give appropriate consideration to: (1) the volume of risk
assets; (2) the volume and severity of marginal and inferior quality assets;
(3) growth experience, plans, and prospects; (4) management's strength in
relation to the above; (5) earnings retention; and (6) access to capital and
financial assistance. If the auditor determine that capital is inadequate or
that the bank or financial institution is technically insolvent, it should
estimate the amount of capital necessary to absorb losses, bring capital to an
adequate level, and ensure its ongoing viability.
(m) The auditor should make an assessment of the institution's overall
condition, viability, and future prospects. To the extent that serious
shortcomings exist, it should recommend appropriate corrective action, or, in
its opinion, the institution is not viable in its present condition, the
auditor should clearly state the circumstance under which its viability may be
reasonable assured or that the institution is beyond reasonable assistance and
should be closed.



- 142 -
ANNME 5- 4
Page 6 of 16
Independence and Imgartialitv
6.    The auditing firm must be independent of any member of the board of
directors, executive officer, or senior manager of the bank of financial
institution. Independence implies that the senior managing partner, and any
partner, or staff who would be involved in the diagnostic study, is not
serving as a director of the bank, nor has any personal, financial, or close
business relationship except as an independent professional adviser during the
course of an audit.
7.   The auditing firm should be authorized to practice in Poland and be
capable of using procedures and methods that conform with generally accepted
auditing practices. The auditing firm should employ adequate staff with
appropriate professional qualifications and suitable experience, including
experience in assessing credit quality and in auditing the accounts of
entities comparable in nature, size, and complexity.
8.    Curriculum vitae (CVs) should be provided by the principals of the firm
who would be responsible for providing the opinions and reports, together with
the CVs of managers, supervisors, and key personnel likely to be employed in
the diagnostic studies. CVs should include details on audits carrled out by
these staff, including ongoing assignments.
Confidentiality
9.   These auditing reports are to be prepared for use by the bank
management, the World Bank and the Bank Supervision Department of NBP. The
results are not for public disclosure, but may be publicly disclosed by the
bank at its discretion. All results are to be used for bank supervision
purposes and are to be treated in a confidential manner.



- 143 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 7 of 16
Aggendix I
Prooosed Guidelines on Bank Susoension of Interest on non-erformin  loans
Introduction
1.    There is no uniform standard internationally on the treatment of
interest on non-perEorming loans. Indeed, the definition of a non-performing
loan (NPL) varies from country to country. In some countries, a NPL is defined
as one that has not been serviced within 90 days. In other countries, a NPL is
not recognized until the amount of principal and interest accrued and not paid
exceeds the security value of the loan. Accordingly, the definition of
interest in suspense (IIS) would determine also the definition of a NPL.
2.    This guideline has been drafted to establish the minimum standard of
accounting for banks (including development banks), which are subject to
performance audit or review for World Bank loan programs or bank restructuring
purposes. Bank staff and consultants undertaking reviews of the adequacy of
loan loss provisions and bank profitability should adopt these standards when
reporting on and assessing the solvency and performance of the institutions
being examined.
Soncept
3.    Under normal conditions, a borrower services his liability to a bank
from his operating revenue, or cash flow. To meet temporary cash flow
shortages (when the solvency of the borrower is not in question), the borrower
may incur additional debts in order to service his loans. Such funds can be
obtained either from the same bank, other trade creditors, other financial
institutions, drawdown of existing assets, or additional capital input by
shareholders. If the borrower is unable to obtain financing from the banking
system, he is forced to liquidate assets (often at a loss) in order to service
his commitments. Consequently, if the net cash flow deficit is permanent
rather than temporary, the borrower begins to move towards insolvency, arising
from losses incurred through the forced liquidation of assets or incurring an
interest burden heavier than net earnings on assets.  When a borrower is
insolvent, any further lending by a bank to the borrower is likely to be non-
recoverable, particularly if the outstanding loans exceed the value of
security held by the bank.
4.    Accordingly, a bank should not recognize as interest income, when such
income has not been received in cash, on due date, or certainly not later than
90 days from due date, froam the borrower. Such interest not received but
accrued should be credited Dt to income, but to a provision account called
interest in sw nense (IIS).   This accounting treatment is to ensure the
"trueness and fairness of the income flows of the bank, and is not related to
the fundamental collectibility of the loan. That is, interest not collected



- 144 -
Page 8 of 16
should not be regarded as current year income, even though the interest may be
partially or fully collectible sometime in the future.
Interest in suspense aS a disciplinarv tool
5.    IIS accounting is fundamentally a finbncial disciplinary tool to ensure
that banks should recognize on a prudent and "true and fair basis" their non-
performing loans and their impact on profits. At the same time, IIS
accounting induces the banks to enforce their credit discipline on their
borrowers that debt should be serviced. IIS reporting serves as an excellent
early warning indicator to the bank management and bank supervisory
authorities on the growing impact of non-performing loans on bank
profitability. Without proper accounting, it will be difficult for the
supervisory authorities to identify quickly inefficient banks, as well as the
emergency of problem credit sectors.
Source of debt servicine
6.    The original source of the debt repayment is important to the lender to
determine the solvency of the borrower. The fundamental principle is that
debt should be serviced from operating revenue, and only exceptionally from
capital. Where a borrower obtains additional credit from anotaer lender with
no perceivable source of debt servicing or repayment plan, in order to service
his existing debt with the original lender bank, the existing loan should be
placed on a "classified" category with "special mention" for dBtailed
monitoring.
Accounting treatment
7.    All interest on loans not serviced within 90 days of due date should be
treated as follows:-
Dr. Loans outstanding
Cr. Interest in suspense (provision)
Clawback:   Any interest accrued during the 90 day period should be
reversed out of profits (claw-backed) into the IIS
suspension account.
Additional bank loans to service interest
8.    Additional bank loans to service interest will be subject to a 3 point
viability, security and solvency test. The borrower must be able to
demonstrate that:-
a.    the borrower is solveyn  and not over-leveraged;
b.    the project cash flow over the short to medium term can service
the interest burden; and



- 145 -
ANNME 5 -4
Page 9 of 16
c.    the security for the additional loan, at market value, exceeds the
value of the loan outstanding by a comfortable margin.
9.    The rule in paragraph 8 also applies to borrowing from another bank to
service the existing loan. The original lending bank must also satisfy itself
that the borrower can meet the criteria set out in paragraph 8, or that the
new lending bank has evaluated the criteria adequately. When a borrower fails
any of the above 3 tests, the irterest on his loans must be suspended and such
interest claw-backed.
Interest accumulation on overdrafts
10.   Interest accumulated in overdraft accounts will be allowed to be
credited to income up to the pre-established =rived overdraft limit.
Excesses over the approved limit will be subject to test above.
CaRitalization of interest in Rescheduling
11.         Rescheduling of loans often involve the capitalization of
interest. Such capitalization may be allowed subject to the test above. If
the rescheduling of loans involve only the postponement of principal
repayment, the borrower must demonstrate the operating capability of servicing
current interest on the loan before capitalization of past due interest or
rescheduling of principal is allowed.
Priority of debt servicing
12.         Any servicing of debt after a loan has become non-performing
should be applied on a LIFO (last in first out) basis. Repayments should be
set off in the following order:-
1.    Against principal                 lDr. cash
)Cr. Loan outstanding
2.    Against current interest overdue )
3.    Against interest in suspense      )Dr. Interest in suspense
Cr. Interest income
Solvency test
13.   Because the 3 point borrower solvency/viability test is crucial to the
implementation of the IIS accounting standard, it is important that the
auditor or supervisory authority assess carefully the professional ability of
the bank to assess the solvency and viability of the borrower. Any review of
the quality of loan portfolio of a bank must include a critical review of the
credit evaluation, monitoring and collection procedures of the bank concerned.
Weaknesses found in these areas will require a greater extent of audit tests
into actual credit files to determine the quality of credit information
available, and the adequacy of loan loss provisions.



- 146 -
ANNEXL5-A
Page 10 of 16
Phase-In Period
14. If it is not possible for all banks to adopt immediately the suggested
IIS standard, a transitional period may be necessary. In situations where no
standards apply, and banks have grave operational or reporting difficulties in
adopting the IIS standard immediately, the supervisory authority can allow a
grace period in which the banks should begin to apply. There are two
approaches that can be considered. The first option is to extend the IIS
recognition period to 180 days instead of 90 days. After a suitable period
(say, 3 years), the banks would be required to switch to the 90 day
international standard.
15. The second alternative is to recognize immediately the IIS standard, but
to allow a period of x years to book in the required IIS provisions, and to
disclose this in their published accounts. The supervisory authorities should
at all times know the impact of IIS on the true performance of the banks.
16.   The auditor should specify which method has been adopted, and the
reasons for the adoption of the transitory standard.



- 147 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 11 of 16
Aonendix II
Guidelines on Non-performing loans and Provision for
Bad and Doubtful debts
Definitions
1.    Past due or over-due: Bank credit is overdue or past due, when:-
a.    principal or interest is due and unpaid for 30 days or more; or
b.    interest payments equal to 30 days interest or more have been
capitalized, refinanced or rolled over into a now loan or the
existing loan; or
c.    overdrafts, current accounts and credit extensions exceed the pre-
established lending limits or repayment schedules by 30 days or
more; or
d.    the credit facility has expired for 30 days or more, with no
repayment of either interest or principal.
2.    A non-performing or delinquent loan is defined as any loan or credit on
which interest or principal is past due and unpaid for more than 90 days. The
non-performing loan element comprises the gross principal and interest
outstanding, and not just the amount of delinquent or overdue payments.
3.    Connected lending occurs when:-
a.    loans are made to parties or firms, which are connected by
ownership or control. Ownership and control connection means
inter-locking shareholdings (direct or indirectly through
nominees), directorships, key ma&agement staff, parent companies,
subsidiaries, affiliated companies; or
b.    loans made to parties which are connected directly or indirectly
to lending bank's shareholders, directors or staff.
4.    Loan concentration means the granting of total connected loans to
parties, individuals or groups of companies which together exceed a certain
minimum proportion of the capital of the lending bank.
5.   Non-accrual assets are those which do not yield a return and have been
placed on a cash basis for financial reporting purpobes. Interest accrued on
such assets have been suspended and not taken into income, unless paid by the
borrower in cash. Non-accrued interest is also called interest in suspense.
All non-performing loans are required to be placed on non-accrual basis. Non-
accrued interest should be held in the interest in susper-se provision account,
until paid in cash.
6.   Well-secured assets means assets secured by collateral that is
sufficient to protect the bank from loss of principal and/or interest due from
the borrower. The collateral must be able to be disposed in a timely manner,



- 148 -
ANNE 5-4
Page 12 of 16
under proper legal documentation, at a value which exceeds the loan
outstanding and costs incurred in disposal.
Concept of asset auaIlt
7.   The purpose of the examination of the asset quality of a bank is to
establish the physical existence of assets as stated in the financial
statements of the bank, and that the assets have a market and realizable value
at least equal to the loan value stated in the bank's books. In other words,
is it there? Is it any good?
8.   Asset quality or value has a direct relationship to bank solvency.
Asset losses have a $ for $ impact on profits and shareholders' funds. Hence,
large asset losses can cause bank insolvency.
9.    The tre value of any asset is the discounted present value of the cash
flow derived from that asset. Hence, non-accrual assets actually have zero net
present value (NPV), unless the asset collateral has a NPV or
market/realizable value exceeding the loan outstanding. In other words, the
bank examiner has to mark to market the bank's loan portfolio, or determine
the market/realizable value of the collateral (whichever is higher) to arrive
at the adequacy of asset loss provisions.
10.  The valuation of loan assets or their collateral can be highly
subjective, and depends often on an evaluation of future cash inflows on
assets or their disposability. Assessment of loan asset values will rely
critically on:-
a.    The quality of bank credit managezent, including:-
-     the laying down of clear credit policies and guidelines and
their compliance;
-     internal controls on credit assessment procedures and
authorization limits;
-     adequacy of controls over debt documentation, legal charges
and collateral security;
-     credit monitoring of borrower performance and compliance
with loan terms and conditions;
-    procedures for prompt debt recovery or loan rehabilitation;
-    adequacy of reporting of problem loans to management, loan
evaluation cycle, asset loss provisioning and regular credit
review.
-    complete credit documentation, suitable for verification
purposes or audit trail
b.   The availability of information on marketability or market value
of loan assets or their collateral;



- 149 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 13 of 16
c.    The opinion of independent, professional accountants, lawyers or
valuers on the valuation of collateral assets, loans, guarantees,
lawsuits, or other contingencies.
d.    Other files and documentation available to substantiate or verify
the values of loan assets or their collateral.
Loan classifications
11.   For purposes of loan classifications, the exposure of a bank to a
borrower should include all connected lending, direct or indirect extension of
credit, property acquired by the bank in the satisfaction of debts,
investments, equity participation, guarantees, contingent liabilities and
commitments on lines of credit to that borrower.
12.   All bank credit should be classified into the following four categories,
with these attributes:-
1.    Pass asset:        assets which are well secured and not past due
2.    Substandard:       assets which appear to have adequate security,
but have displayed various credit weaknesses.
These include sporadic delays in debt-servicing
of more than 30 days but less than 90 days. The
borrowers are exhibiting signs that their
operating cash flow is not sufficient to meet
current debt commitments, requiring further
working capital loans. These include highly
geared borrowers, and borrowers with high
borrowing on collateral with low cash flow.
Although on paper and latest information, the collateral value
appears adequate, there are sufficient doubts on collateral
documentation, marketability, and current and available financial
information to question whether the collateral may be fully
realized when called.
3.    Doubtful:   Doubtful assets include all substandard assets with
the following additional characteristics:-
o     on the basis of currently available facts, conditions
and values, the full collection on the debt is highly
questionable and doubtful. There is uncertainty on the
valuation and marketability of the collateral. The
adequacy of collataral legal documentation has also
been called into question.



- 150 -
oSlSE 5-4
Page 14 of 16
o     doubtful assets are non-performing and debt servicing
is more than 90 days past due, but less than 365 days
past due.
4.   Bad or loss Bad or loss assets are those which are considered
uncollectible and of such little value that their
continuation as bankable assets is not warranted. The
asset may have some recovery or salvage value, but the
probability of loss is so high that the loss should be
recognized immediately or the asset should be written
off.  Bad debts or loss assets have these additional
characteristic in addition to being doubtful:-
o     The borrower or major shareholder/director has become
insolvent or declared bankrupt, or has been placed in
receivership.
o     There are major defects in the collateral, including
non-marketability due to legal suits, liens, poor
market conditions or poor documentation. Special
considerations may the disposal of the collateral
difficult, lengthy in execution and not without great
loss.
o     The debt has not been serviced for more than 365 days,
and the borrower has made little effort or shows no
viable or concrete proposals to rehabilitate the loan.
Valuation of collateral
13.  The valuation of collateral securing a loan is often highly subjective
in nature. The following are some guidance on the assessment of value of
collateral:-
a. Land *         Land and buildings are the most common form of loan
collateral. The lending bank should ensure that the
lien or charge on the land is secure, and free from
encumbrances, caveats or other legal impediments to
bank holding good title and subsequent disposal of
land. Common forms of land valuation are by
comparative market valuation (based on recent market
transactions of cooparable location and land quality)
or by the development valuation approach. This is
often used in real estate transactions and values the
net present value of the land, based on projections of
expected sale of building and land, less the cost of
development, interest. costs and land costs. The
latter type of valuation is often inflated, and based
on optimistic assumptions of future sale prices.



- 151 -
Page 15 of 16
Where possible, the forced sale value of the property
should be taken.
b. Guarantees    - Guarantees by first class banks, governments or
multinational corporations are often treated as good
as cash or highly liquid assets at full face value.
However, in the assessment of guarantees, the credit
standing as well as the ability of the guarantor to
pay on deand is important. There are many instances
in which government guarantees are apparently good,
but procedural and legal delays in executing a
guarantee could make a fully guaranteed loan a sub-
standard or doubtful asset, where provisioning is
required, at least partially.
c. Quoted sbares - should not be valued at above their latest or average
quotation in the market. Where recent quotation may
not be available, the net tangible asset (NTA) of the
firm may be used as a proxy.
d. Unquoted shares- In cases of inventory or intangibles (such as non-
marketable royalties on patent rights) which are
difficult assets to dispose immediately, the banker
will face problems of valuation. It is important that
the valuation should be determined in the credit
assessment stage, at a realistic level, taking into
consideration that delays in realizing collateral
assets effectively means that the period of non-
servicing is extended.
Suggested Provisions
14.  Prudent banks operating on a sound basis should aim to have the
following levels of provisions against asset losses:-
1. Pass assets - a general provision of at least 1X of all pass assets
to meet contingent losses on disposal of any pass
assets which may go bad or doubtful. Such provision
can be included in second tier capital under the Basle
rules.
2. Sub-standard - at least 20X provision against all sub-standard
assets.
3. Doubtful     - at least 501 provision against doubtful debts.
4. Bad or loss  - 100l   of estimated loss between gross value of loan
outstanding, less available provisions, and realistic
value of collateral.



- 152 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 16 of 16
Transfer risks and country risks
15. Transfer risks and country risks will be assessed along the same lines
as domestic credit risks. The asset classification will depend on how long the
loan is past or overdue, and the quality of collateral on the loan.
Tax considerations
16.   Different countries will have different tax impact arising from
provisions or write-offs of loan losses. Where possible, it is suggested that
tax regulations be amended to encourage banks to make adequate and prudent
provisions for asset losses. Without appropriate tax incentives (or removal
of tax disincentives) banks would be reluctant to implement the above
suggested standards.
References
Federal Reserve Board, Commercial Bank Examination Manual, "Classification of
Credits", Section 217.1, June 1985
OECD, International Bank Reg-ulations, Annex X "Provisions for Bad and
Doubtful assets."
Committee on Banking Regulations and Supervisory Practices, "The Supervision
of Asset Quality.", October 1988.
CECFP, World Bank, "Proposal for Asset Classification and Provisioning",
mimeo, unpublished.



- 153 -
ANNEX_ 6-1
Page 1 of 2
PoLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Bank of Poland (NBP)
1.          The National Bank of Poland (Naradowy Bank Polski) is the Central
Bank of the State; it is the state bank of issue and the central credit and
clearing institution as well as the central banking foreign exchange control
institution.  In this context, the activities of NBP include: issuing legal
tender of the Polish People's Republic, granting refinancing credits to other
banks, accepting deposits, carrying out monetary settlements, organizing
operations in foreign currencies in accordance with provisions of the Foreign
Exchange Control Act, performing cash service of the state budget and other
activities as provided in the Act on NBP of January 31, 1989.
2.          Within the range of its activities the NBP: (i) cooperates with
proper organs of the state authorities and administration in adopting,
implementing the state economic policy and in its realization conforming to
acts and resolutions of the Sjem (Parliament); (ii) prepares projects of the
credit plan and of assumptions of the monetary and credit policy of the State,
determining in particular the size of credit activity, its aims and basic
proportions, policy of charging interest on credits, methods of adopting and
determining the credit activity and guidelines related to fixing foreign
exchange rates; (iii) monitor the correct functioning and development of the
banking system, through the use of instruments such as refinancing credit and
obligatory reserve requirements; in addition, banks activities are supervised
by an special department established in NBP; and (iv) represents the interest
of the State when cooperating with international banking institutions and
foreign banks. In this context, the Act regulating NBP activities, specifies
that the interest of the Polish People's Republic in dealing with the
International Bank of Economic Cooperation, the International Investment Bank,
the World Bank and other international banking institutions are represented by
the President of the NBP.
3.          The NBP is managed by a President, who is appointed and recalled
by the Sjem at a motion of the Prime Minister. Vice-Presidents of the NBP are
appointed and recalled by the Prime Minister at a motion of the President of
NBP. Other members of the NBP's Board of Management are appointed by the
President of the NBP. The Board of Management is composed of the President,
the Vice-President acting as the first deputy to the President, other Vice-
presidents and members appointed by the President. The Board of Management
considers main issues within the scope of activities of the NBP and adopts
resolutions necessary to performs tasks of the NIP. The issues range from
policy-related aspects (such as credit plans and balance of payments;
functioning of the credit and monetary policy; money circulation and monetary
settlements; normative acts and regulation proposals concerning the activity
of the NBP; and interest rate policy) to issues related to personnel and wage
policy of the NBP, and its organization and accounting.



- 154 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 2 of 2
4.          The NBP implements its tasks through the Head Office, regional
branches and other organizational units. The Head Office is composed of
departments and other organizational cells of the same rank. The tasks of the
regional branches include: impiementing tasks connected with the issuing
function of NBP, preparing regional analysis of the monetary situation, cash
service of central budget units, carrying out interbank settlements, keeping
accounts of other banks and undertaking activities connected with monetary and
credit relations with these banks, cooperation with local organs of state
administration.
5.          The NBP's own funds include the statutory fund, the reserve fund,
the fixed assets fund and special funds. The statutory fund amounts to zl
100,000 million and is created from deductions from the annual profit. The
reserve fund is allocated to covering possible account losses, and it is
created from deductions from the annual profits up to the amount of the
statutory fund. The fixed asset fund included resources to cover the value of
fixed assets, immaterial and legal values and other fixed assets diminished by
their depreciation.
6.          Among the various Special Funds of the NBP are the investment
fund, the foreign exchange fund, the risk fund, the premium fund, and others.
The most relevant fund is the risk fund, which is funded with deductions from
the NBP's annual profits and it was established to cover specifically (i)
costs of differences in exchange and losses which may occur due to the service
of loans from the World Bank and international institutions, and (ii)
accidental differences arising in settlements with foreign banks subsequently
to NBP's own foreign operations. The foreign exchange fund was established to
cover foreign exchange costs of specialized machinery and equipment required
for the NBP's operations. Resources from the investment fund are to finance
outlays connected with opening of new organizational units of NBP,
modernization or expansion of existing organizational units as well as the
purchase of machinery and equipment in the local market.
7.          The NBP manages its finances taking into consideration assumptions
of the national socio-economic plan. The financial plan for each year is
determined by the NBP's Board of Management. The NBP keeps its books
according to the plan of accounts and uniform accounting rules determined by
the NBP's President. The NBP's annual financial statements are audited by an
special audit committee appointed by the Council of Mlnisters, at a motion of
the Minister of Finance. Part of the NBP's profit shown in the balance sheet,
after deductions to be allocated to funds mentioned above, is transferred to
the central budget within 30 days after the date of approval of the NBP's
balance sheet by the Council of Ministers.



- 155 -
AMNS 6-2
Page 1 of 9
POLAD - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operating Policies and Procedures
for Financing Investments and Technical Assistance  nAder the Prolect
A.    Functions of the National Bank of Poland (NBPT
1.          Implementation of the Project will be monitored by NBP in
accordance with these Operating Policies and Procedures.
2.          For this purpose NBP has established a separate unit called the
Project Appraisal and Implementation Division (PAID) which will be responsible
for:
A.1   Investments Prolects
(a)      preparing standards for appraisal reports of individual subloans.
In addition, PAID will prepare other standards relevant to the
project cycle, e.g. project supervision check-lists, and shall
also prepare consolidated reporting formats for all loans granted
by the participating banks (financial intermediaries). The
preparation of standards/formats includes procedures to be
followed by the participating banks in their use;
(b)      arranging training and assisting participating banks in activities
such as environmental, procurement and safety issues;
(c)      reviewing subproject appraisals submitted to NBP by the
participating banks for subloans above the free limit; and
participating in appraisals for those subprojects which would
utilize more than US$l million of World Bank funds, except as
PAID/NBP may otherwise agreed. In addition, PAID/NBP will review
the first three subproject appraisals undertaken by each
participating bank, irrespective of subloan size; and
(d)      monitoring the technical supervision conducted by participating
banks of the subprojects financed with World Bank resources; and
assisting participating banks to identified required skills to
conduct an effective technical supervision of the subprojects, as
may be needed.
A.2  Technical Assistance
(a)      coordinating with other NBP's Departments or Government's agencies
the implementation of the different components of the Technical
Assistance components included in the Project;



- 156 -
AM  6-2
Page 2 of 9
(b)      identifying training needs and arranging training of selected
staff from each participating bank through formal sessions in all
aspects of the project cycle, particularly appraisal and the
required technical, market, managerial, financial and economic
analyses;
(c)      identifying appropriate institutions (domestic or foreign) to
carry out training as identified above in (b);
(d)      monitoring the progress of each of the programs of technical
assistance, and ensuring that the Ministry of Finance assists
executing agencies to enable an effective implementation of their
respective programs;
(e)      supplying to the World Bank as might be requested, timely and
adequate reporting on the progress and implementation of the
different programs to be implemented and financed with World Bank
funds;
3.          PAID will maintain adequate staff to ensure its efficient
operations. All its administrative costs will be covered by NBP. However, if
necessary, NBP may hire specialized outside agencies or individual consultants
(national and foreign) for certain assignments such as technical studies,
training, etc.
4.          NBP will ensure the expeditious execution of financial
transactions between NBP and participating banks required for the
implementation of subprojects. For this purpose, NBP will keep records and
appropriate separate accounts as may be necessary to reflect current status of
commitments and disbursements for each industriAl subproject financed with
World Bank's resources.
5.          The permanent compliance of participating banks with agreed
eligibility criteria (para 6) will be monitored by the Bank Supervision
Department of NBP and by regular World Bank project supervision missions.
B.    ParticiRating Banks
6.          Any bank which complies with the following prequalification
criteria could participate in channeling World Bank resources:
(a)      good standing with regulatory agencies;
(b)      satisfactory financial policies to the World Bank;
(c)      operating pursuant to a lending and investment policy acceptable
to the World Bank;
(d)      establishment of a Credit Committee as an advisory body to the
bank's President on credit decisions. The Committee will include



- 157 -
AN=E 6.2
Page 3 of 9
adequate and skilled staff and will review all investment projects
and loans above the limit established for decision of branch
directors, as well as all major supervision problems;
(e)     establishment of a technical unit, specialized in medium - and
long - term project lending, properly staffed with at least one
industrial engineer, one financial analyst, and one economist, and
capable of undertaking project appraisal and supervision
acceptable to the World Bank;
(f)      satisfactory external audits of their operations according to
international auditing standards, starting with their 1989
accounts, with a view to developing and implementing an action
plan to improve, and thereby, maintain their overall operational
and financial situation. This action plan should explicitly
include measures towards:
(i)   improving their financial structure, to achieve a capital to
risk assets ratio of at least 8X within an agreed time
frame;
(ii) minimizing exposure risks by adopting lending limits as a
percentage of bank capital to a single borrower or a group
of financially associated borrowers;
(iii) introducing adequate provisions for potential loan losses;
Copies of auditor's reports should be received by PAID and the
World Bank;
(g)      signing of participating agreement with NBP that would reflect the
intermediary acceptance of these Operating Rules and include
provision of periodic reports on portfolio financed by NBP.
C.    Functions of Participating Banks
7.          The participating banks will be responsible for:
(a)      identifying subprojects, receive and review subloan applications;
(b)     preparing subproject appraisal reports following World Bank
guidelines and the standards provided by PAID/NBP;
(c)     administe'ing their subloans, ensuring timely collection of dues;
(e)      supervising subproject performance;
(f)      ensuring that sub-borrowers comply with World Bank procurement
guidelines; and



158                           ANNEX 6-2
Page 4 of 9
(g)      submitting periodic reports on subproject performance to NBP.
D.   bm soe of F       tn
D.l   Irget FInAnlugM
8.          The Project will finance exclusively subprojects that are
technically feasible, financially and economically sound, directly contributo
to the industrial export to convertlble currency areas, and meet eligibility
criteria as speeified in para 23. NBP will monitor the performance of the
participatlng banks in assuring this objective.
9.           Participating banks will finance eligible enterprises by granting
medlum - and long-term loans (up to 10 years) with grace period of up to 3
years. The repayment terms and grace periods will be tailored to suit the
cash-flow needs of each borrower.
10.         The proceeds of the World Bank loan for the Project will be used
for subprojects to establish, expand, restructure or modernize industrial
enterprises and associated services in manufacturing industries.
Specifically, the funds will cover foreign exchange costs of:
(a)      fixed assets (machinery, equipment, industrial cargo vehicles,
civll works, industrial structures);
(b)     permanent working capital (initial and additional inventory of raw
materials, spare parts and semi-finished and finished products,
vwhere these are related to an inerease in production or expansions
to utilize installed capacity);
(c)      interest during construction;
(d)      technical/economic pro-investment studies requlred for projects
suitable for financing;
(e)      trainlng and technieal assistance for the subprojects to be
financed; and
(f)      export marketing studies and export promotion activities.
D.2  Technical Assistance Finang ing
11.         The Project will finance exclusively technical assistance programs
that directly contribute to (i) improving the convertible currency trade
balance of Poland, (ii) improving the banking system and (iii) support the
restructuring of the industrial sector and the development of the private
sector.



- 159 -
ANNEX 6-2
Page 5 of 9
12.         The proceeds of the World Bank loan for the Project will be used
for technical assistance programs supporting the objectives of the Project.
Specifically, the funds will cover foreign exchange costs of:
(a) studies, consultants fees and costs
(b)   equipment associated with the programs (computers, etc..)
(c)   software, documentation
(d)   trainirg expenses
(e)   travel expenses associated with the programs (travel of
consultants and of polish staff)
E.    Eligible Enterprises
13.         Any existing sound enterprise which will agree to and meet
appropriate financial covenants and meet the project eligibility criteria
(para 23) will be ellgible to participate in the financing. Financial
covenants may include restrictions on other investments and objectives for key
financial ratios such as the current and debt-service ratio. In addition,
enterprises must have their financial statements audited at the end of each
fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Any enterprises
utilizing more than US$4 million from the proceeds of the World Bank loan,
will introduce/maintain sound cost accounting practices, adopt/maintain
adequate Management Information System and have its financial statements
audited according to international standards by auditors qualifled for this
task.
14.         It is expected that individual borrowers will provide or arrange
for funds to cover all local costs of the subproject. The source of such
funds will be shown in the subproject financing plan. Any specific criteria
regarding local contribution, such as enterprise minimum contribution, may be
further considered by NBP and the World Bank.
F.   Subloans
15.         All subloans will be denominated and repayable together with
interest thereon in US dollars. The subloan beneficiaries will assume the
foreign exchange risk. The cross-currency risk between the US dollar and
other currencies (currency pool) of repayment to the World Bank will be
absorbed by the NBP.
16.         Financing for each industrial subproject, enterprise or group of
related enterprises will be normally limited to US$4 million equivalent.
However, subprojects requiring more than US$4 million would also be eligible,
subject to prior agreement with the World Bank on a project by project basis,
and would be appraised jointly by the participating bank, PAID/NBP and the
World lank.



- 160 -
ANE  6-2
Page 6 of 9
17.         Proceeds of the World Bank loan could also provide financing for
small projects which meet the export earnings criteria and minimum financial
rate of return (item (e) and (f), para 23). In these cases, simplified
appraisal criteria will be followed (para 24). Each such financing will be
limited to US$100,000 for each enterprise with a limit of US$10 million for
all participating banks.
18.         The interest rate charged by NBP to participating banks will be
based on London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR) for dollar deposits plus a
margin. The margin will be determined every six months, in consultation with
the World Bank, taking into account the cost of alternative sources of
comparable funds wilile at the same time ensuring recovery of NBP's costs in
intermediating the loan. In order to enhance competition, the participating
banks will be free to set the interest rate to sub-borrowers at prevailing
market rates.
19.         All funds available for on-lending will be available to the
participating banks on a first-come first-served basis, without any allocation
by participating banks to specific industrial subsectors or classes of
ownership.
20.         Disbursements normally will be made from World Bank proceeds
maintained in a Special Account to be opened and managed by NBP in a
commercial bank. Sub-borrowers will submit invoices to their commercial bank,
who, after their approval, will submit them to NBP to make payments to
contractors, suppliers, and others from the Special Account.
21.         Repayment schedules of funds on-lent by NBP to the participating
banks will be on a back-to-back basis. The sub-borrower may prepay, without
additional charge, all or part of the subloan prior to maturity. In such
cases, the participating bank will notify NBP immediately and proceed to repay
the sum received.
22.         In case of arrears in principal repayment, or payment of interest
on any due date from a sub-borrower, the participating bank will be liable for
payment on the due date and will then be responsible for making appropriate
arrangements to get the account current from the enterprise concerned.
G.    Subgroject ADRraisal
23.         Loan applications will be received by the participating banks,
which will review them in detail, and in each case prepare a subproject
appraisal report.  All project subloans should be made on the basis of an
appraisal that examine technical feasibility of subprojects, critically
assesses their managerial, marketing, financial and economic aspects, and
analyzes the financial solvency and debt service capacity of the borrowing
enterprise.  The appraisal should also include projection of the borrower's
financial position (balance sheets, profit and loss statement, and cash flow
statements).  Each appraisal report must follow the standards provided by NBP
(para 2 (a)), including the above mentioned elements and: (i) an equipment
list described in comercial terminology with indicated prices, country of



- 161 -
ANNEX 6-2
Page 7 of 9
origin and the supplier's names and (ii) description of the procurement
method, containing engineer's statements to the effect that: (a) equipment
parts and supplies to be financed are appropriate for the project and that the
proposed price is reasonable, and (b) procurement will be carried out
according to the methods agreed.
24.         The appraisal reports will be presented for internal approval of
the participating bank and, in positive cases, will be presented to PAID/NBP
for financing (for subprojects below the free limit), and for review (for
subprojects above the free limit). An initial free limit for subloans
selected by intermediary banks has been set at US$300,000 for PAID/NBP review
and at US$1,000,000 for World Bank review. The PAID's staff will be
responsible for reviewing the appraisal of the intermediaries and ensuring
that it is efficiently done. To simplify its task and gain time, PAID's staff
would be allowed to establish a direct contact with loan applicants.
Normally, the PAID review process should not exceed three weeks. In case of
serious problems, PAID would notify the intermediary bank and provide specific
comments within the three-week time.
25.         All subloan applications for investment subproject will be first
checked as to conditions for subproject eligibility which covers the
following:
(a)      the borrowing enterprise must be in a sound financial condition,
and have the capacity to adequate service the additional debt
incurred as a result of the subproject;
(b)      a complete financing plan for the proposed subproject must be in
place, with adequate assurances in this regard from all financing
agencies;
(c)      any borrowing enterprise must undertake annual external audits.
For those enterprises borrowing more than US$4 million equivalent
from the proceeds of the Bank loan, this audit must be according
to international auditing standards; in addition they have to
initiate/maintain effective cost accounting procedures and
Management Information System. For those enterprises undertaken
pre-identified project, this audit should start with their 1989
accounts;
(d)      the subproject must be completed within three years of
effectiveness of the subloan agreement which secures its
financing;
(e)      the cumulative net foreign exchange generated by the subproject in
the first 4 years after its completion must at least be equal to
its foreign exchange investment costs;
(f)      the financial and economic rates of return for the subproject must
exceed 18X; and



- 1b 2 -
ANNEX -2
Page 8 of 9
(g)      the subproiect must not contribute to a safetv hazard or to
environmental deterioration.
26.         for small subloans up to US$100,000, the appraisal will be
simplified and consist only of a review of the viability and financial
soundness of the enterprise, its capacitv to service the loan, and the
capacity of the subproject to meet the export earnings criteria (item (e),
para 23).
27.         Subproject appraisal reports for subprojects above the free limit
(US$1 million) approved by the intermediary banks will be submitted to PAID
together with the request for financing. Once approved by NBP, they will be
presented to the World Bank for approval. Information for subloan below the
free limit will also be made available to the World Bank for subsequent review
during supervision of the Project.
J.    SubDroiect Supervision
28.         This should be distinguished from loan administration which, in
general, is limited to overseeing the loan collection including arrears, and
making occaiional visits to project sites primarily for end-use checks for
collateral purposes. Broadly defined, project supervision implies monitoring
progress of the investment project until its full operational stage, verifying
compliance with original plans and agreements, identifying the existing and/or
potential problems, and providing assistance or advice towards their solution.
29.         The participating intermediary banks have to equip themselves to
perform this function.  If deemed needed to ensure an effective subproject
supervision, the intermediary banks may seek assistance from the PAID.
30.         The PAID mav follow up on project supervision during construction
and start-up operations by means of periodic site visits with the intermediary
banks. Occasionally, PAID's staff may also make visits to the project sites
to verify their implementation.
31.         The PAID will receive periodically reports from the intermediary
banks on their respective activities (as per format included in Annex ---),
which will show in a summary form the financial position of borrowers, any
major problem encountered, any recommended solution put forward and the
technical assistance given or proposed. The PAID may also provide, upon
request, assistance on supArvision of specific projects presenting major
problems.
32.         The PAID staff will work closelv with the project units maintained
by the participating banks in order to ensure smooth program operations, and
identify problems that could impair effectiveness of these units.  Througn its
review of, and comments on, the project appraisals prepared by the
intermediary banks the PAID, will closely monitor the effectiveness of the
project appraisal system and the standard of appraisal.



- 163 -
ANNEX 6-2
Page 9 of 9
K.    Procurement
33.         The participating banks will ensure that sub-borrowers comply with
World Bank procurement guidelines. All equipment and material to be financed
by the World Bank need to be procured through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB), except in cases where Limlted International Bidding (LIB),
international shopping and direct contracting are more appropriate. For bid
comparisons under ICB, domestic manufacturers will be eligible for a margin of
preference of 151 or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower. For
local procurement or civil works and equipment, which are not financed with
World Bank funds, local bidding procedures will be followed. This normally
will involve the selection of one from among several possible suppliers, on
the basis of a number of factors including availability, delivery and price.
34.         Procurement with World Bank funds using non-ICB procedures
includes: (i) equipment and technical licenses for which there are a limited
number of suppliers, as agreed in each case by the World Bank, which may be
purchased through limited international bidding (LIB); (ii) small and
miscellaneous items costing less than US$5OO,OO each, which may be procured
through International Shopping (IS); (iii) direct contracting from suppliers
who are the only source for specialized or proprietary equipment or licenses;
and (iv) engineering services, technical assistance and associated expenses
for management development, studies and training.
35.         Procurement for technical assistance will be carrying out in
accordance with World Bank Guidelines;



- 164 -
ANNEX 6-3
POLAND - INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Disbursement Schedule For Proposed Bank Loan
Comparator Profile
for Industrial
Calendar      Financial       Projected Disbursement               Projects
Year and      Year and           -- Cumulative --            EKENA         Bank-
Ouaxter_      Ouarter       Amount    Amount   Percent       Region a/   Wide k/
1990   I    FY90 III        33.0      33.0 /   13X
II           IV       8.0      41.0        16X           1Z          1Z
III    FY91   I        12.0      53.0       20Z
IV           II      14.0      67.0        261           6%          7%
1991   I           III      16.0      83.0        32Z
II           IV      17.0     100.0        38X          13%        14%
III    FY92   I       18.0      118.0       451
IV           II      19.0      137.0       53X          23X        24%
1992   I           III      19.0     156.0        601
II           IV      18.0      174.0       671          341         301
III   FY93   I        16.0      190.0       731
IV           II      14.0      204.0       781          461        481
1993   I           III      12.0     216.0        831
II           IV      10.0      226.0       871          571        60X
III    FY94   I        7.0      233.0       90X
IV           II       7.0      240.0       921          681         701
1994   I           III       6.0     246.0        951
II           IV       5.0      251.0       97%          76%        79X
III    FY95   I        3.0      254.0       981
IV           II       3.0      257.0       991          831         861
1995   I           III       2.0      259.0      1001
II           IV       1.0      260.0      1001          891        921
III    FY96   I
IV           II                                         941         96%
1996   1           III
II           IV                                         981         991
III    FY97   I
IV           II                                        1001        1001
a/    Based on 36 industrial projects in the EMENA region, IBRD financed,
all fully disbursed.
Based on 97 industrial projects, IBRD financed, all fully disbursed.
-C/    Including retroactive financing of US$25 million and refinancing of a
US$1.5 million PPF.



15  16     -           i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*         20                         2?                          24~~~~~T K-                                                 LA            
UPSK ~~~~~                                                                             ~PLN
G                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDUSTRIAL EXPORT
-  'KO IN  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5'                                                                                                DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
4'                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PLOCK   Site of Preselected Investment Project:
T.                                                                                                                                                                                                      Chemical
CLUr                                                                                                                                                                                            0      Wood kcidustries
ad ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U Machine Tools
PRA  RYDGOSZ  ,  /                                                              RIAtYSTOK~~~~~~~~~~K                                            Main Reeds
-Railroads
4'~   Airports
--                                                                                                                                                          *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OKZ.    Major Parts
Die                                                                                                                                            *     Nessnol Cepital~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~atolCaia
POZNAN     v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         j' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              Provinc (Wojew6dotsno) Ca1sitals
2                                         WARSA                                                                                               ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Cities and TovMs,
KOHl                      --                                                                   5?                   r~~~~~~~~~~~.-  T "  Rivens
32'.                    ~~~~~~~~Carols
Z                                                                                                                                                    P,,W,,, (Wj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~64ztvo) Boundaria~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Povne Wje6zte) oedre
lnemerational BouoMaies
LUJ
ELC                                                        DEN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WEE 
Sea                        Sea
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                                                                                       U. S.S. R
'-~ GERMAN           P 0  L AN  D.
FDEM. REP,J,
C,                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FED. REP. -'-
YJLOMETERS~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~.ROAI
ISOSA(                                                                                                               N' Ce
14760.000   lB.                  K                A?                                                    ~~~~~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITALY  YGSAI



