Page  1
September 27, 1993
Ms. Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz
President
National Bank of Poland
ul. Swietokrzyska 11/21
P.O. Box 1011
00-950 Warsaw
Republic of Poland
Mr. Jerzy Osiatynski
Minister of Finance
00-916 Warsaw
ul. Swietokrzyska 12
Republic of Poland
               Re:  Loan No. 3166 POL
                    (Industrial Export Development Project)
                    Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Madame and Sir:
          Please refer to the Loan Agreement (Industrial Export
Development Project) between the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the National Bank of
Poland (the Borrower), dated February 22, 1990 (the Loan Agreement),
as amended, to the Guarantee Agreement (Industrial Export
Development Project) between the Republic of Poland (the Guarantor)
and the Bank of even date, and to our discussions on the subject of
further amending said Agreement.
          We are pleased to inform you that the Bank hereby agrees
to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
     Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
I.   Section 1.02(j) to the Loan Agreement is amended to read as
follows:
     "Section 1.02(j) "Investment Project" means a specific
development project, including the provision of permanent working
capital, to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a Subloan;"
II.  The following new paragraphs (o) and (p) are added to Section
1.02 of the Loan Agreement:
     "(o) "Private Enterprise" means a private enterprise as so
defined in paragraph 4 of Part C of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement;"
     (p)  "Eligible corporatized enterprise" means an enterprise,
other than a private enterprise established and operating under the
Commercial Code of the Guarantor."
     Schedule 1 - Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
III. The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
is amended to read as follows:
                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated           % of
                              (Expressed in            Expenditures
     Category                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Consultants'               500,000)
     services and                      )
     training under                    )
     Part A of the                     )
     Project                           )
Page  2
                                       )
(2)  Goods,                  11,000,000)
     consultants'                      )
     services and                      )
     training under                    )
     Part B of the                     )          100% of foreign
     Project                           )          expenditures and 100%
                                       )          of local expenditures
(3)  Under Part C of        215,000,000)          (ex-factory cost) for
     the Project:                      )          goods, and 100% for
                                       )          consultants' services
     (a)  goods,                       )          and training
          technical                    )
          licenses,                    )
          consul-                      )
          tants'                       )
          services                     )
          and                          )
          training                     )
     (b)  interest                                Amount capitalized
          on the                                  pursuant to paragraph
          Sub-loans                               2 of the Annex to
                                                  Schedule 6 to this
                                                  Agreement
(4)  Goods,                   32,000,000          100% of foreign
     consultants'                                 expenditures and 100%
     services and                                 of local expenditures
     training under                               (ex-factory cost) for
     Part D of the                                goods, and 100% for
     Project                                      consultants' services
                                                  and training
(5)  Refunding of              1,500,000          Amount due pursuant to
     Project                                      Section 2.02 (c) of
     Preparation                                  this Agreement
     Advance
     TOTAL                   260,000,000
     Schedule 2 - Description of the Project
IV.  The following subparagraphs (3) and (4) are added to Part C of
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement:
          Part C:
     "(3) purchase equipment by majority private-owned operating
     leasing companies for lease to private or eligible
     corporatized enterprises for productive purposes;  and (4)
     cover the permanent working capital for commencement or
     expansion of operations for private enterprises and eligible
     corporatized enterprises.
     Schedule 4 - Procurement and Consultants' Services
V.   Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Part C of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement are amended to read as follows:
          Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     1.   "Goods, including technical licenses, which the Bank
     agrees are of a proprietary nature may be procured through
     direct negotiations with the proprietors thereof, on terms
     and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
     2.   Goods, including technical licenses, to be procured by
     Investment Enterprises (other than private or eligible
     corporatized enterprises) and estimated to cost less than
Page  3
     the equivalent of $500,000 per contract, may be procured
     under contracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and
     comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
     suppliers from at least two different countries eligible
     under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
     acceptable to the Bank.
     3.   Goods, including technical licenses, which the Bank
     agrees are supplied through a limited number of sources, may
     be procured under contracts awarded through limited
     international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation
     and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three
     qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
     accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of
     the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
     thereof)."
VI.  The first sentence of paragraph 4 of Part C of Schedule 4 to
the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:
     4.   "Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000
     or less but more than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, to
     be purchased by Investment Enterprises, which are private or
     eligible corporatized enterprises, may be procured under
     contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
     quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at
     least  two different countries eligible under the
     Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
     Bank."
VII. The following paragraph 5 is added to Part C of Schedule 4
to the Loan Agreement:
     5.   "Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
     $1,000,000 per contract to be purchased by Investment
     Enterprises, which are private enterprises and eligible
     corporatized enterprises, may be procured under contracts
     awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
     solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible
     under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
     acceptable to the Bank."
     Annex to Schedule 6 - Principal Terms and Conditions of the
Sub-loans
VIII.Paragraph 2 of the Annex to Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement
is amended to read as follows:
     2.   "Sub-loans shall each be made by the respective
     Participating Bank for a period not exceeding ten years,
     inclusive of a grace period not exceeding three years, and
     on other terms, including those relating to interest and
     other charges, which are in accordance with the lending and
     investment policy statement of such Participating Bank
     referred to in paragraph 1(a) of Part B of Schedule 6 to
     this Agreement, provided, however, that Sub-loans for
     permanent working capital shall each be made by the
     respective Participating Bank for a period not less than one
     year but not exceeding four years and on other terms,
     including those relating to interest and other charges.
     Interest payments on Sub-loans accrued and payable  during
     the execution of the Investment Projects financed thereunder
     may be capitalized and paid out of the proceeds of such Sub-
     loans in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank
     and the Borrower."
IX.  The following subparagraph 3(c) is added to the Annex to
     Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement:
     "3(c) Sub-loans for both below and above free-limit
     Investment Projects shall be made to Beneficiaries which are
Page  4
     eligible corporatized enterprises only if: (i) each shall
     have, in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the
     Bank, carried out an environment impact assessment of its
     operations, and prepared and agreed to implement a
     restructuring program designed to provide for its long-term
     financial and operational success, to ensure its efficient
     transformation into a private sector enterprise, and to
     solve any outstanding environmental problems associated with
     its operations as identified by the environment impact
     assessment referred to above; and (ii) each shall have
     established to the satisfaction of the Participating Bank
     making the Sub-loan, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory
     to the Bank, that (A) it is creditworthy, and has a sound
     financial structure and the organization, management, staff
     and other resources required for the efficient carrying out
     of its operations, including the Investment Project, and (B)
     its projected internal cash generation or equity increases
     and the provision of other financing obtained by it shall be
     sufficient to enable it to meet the estimated expenditures
     required for the carrying out of the Investment Project."
X.   The following subparagraph 5(c) is added to the Annex to
Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement:
     "5(c)Approval of Sub-loans for purchase of equipment by
     operating leasing companies shall also require the
     submission of invoices proving that the operating leasing
     company has purchased the equipment and a signed leasing
     contract entered into between the operating company and the
     lessee."
     If you agree with the foregoing please sign and date the
confirmation form in the attached copy of this letter and return
it to us.
                                          Sincerely yours,
                                        /s/  Kemal Dervis
                                                Director
                                        Country Department II
                                 Europe and Central Asia Department
CONFIRMED: by NATIONAL BANK OF POLAND and REPUBLIC OF POLAND
