Report No. PID8269
Project Name             BRAZIL-BR-BAHIA HEALTH
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   Central government administration (35%);
Sub-national government
administration (35%); Health (30%)
Project ID               P054119
Implementing Agency
Secretaria de Saude da Bahia
Address: Av. Luis Viana Filho - 4
Avenida, Plataforma 6 - Lado B - CAB,
41.746-900 Salvador, Bahia, Brazil
Contact Person: Joana Molesini,
Superintendente de Planejamento e
Monitoramento da Gestao Descentralizada da Saude
Tel: 55-71-370 4383
Fax: 55-71-371 2488
Email: molesini@saude.ba.gov.br
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        January 16, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date      January 15, 2003
Bank Approval Date       April 3, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Main Sector Issues
Brazil has a complex and sophisticated health sector that must respond to
the basic demands (such as those measured by the MDGs) and to higher level
demands typical of a middle income country. This section describes key
aspects of the health system that must be understood to put in context the
Government's strategy. The efforts to respond to the most basic needs are
then described as part of the wider strategy.
Decentralization
In an effort to improve access and equity, the Constitution of 1988
proclaimed a universal right to health care, unified the health services
of the social security with those of the Ministry of Health (creating the
Sistema Onico de Saude or Unified Health System - SUS), and emphasized a
role for municipalities in the management of health care. These principles
were implemented through legislation and regulations (known by their
Portuguese acronym as NOBs -Normas Operacionais Basicas) issued in the
1990S.
The NOBs introduced two reforms that had a significant impact over access
to Basic Care and that began to improve the large existing inequities that
characterize the Brazilian health system. The first reform consisted of
the municipalization of Basic Care with the introduction of PAB (Piso
Assistencial Basico), a basic package of services that must be provided by
municipalities to their population and is financed by the federal



government through a fixed payment per capita ("capitation").
Participating municipalities must qualify for these transfers by meeting
criteria that include signing of a Pacto de AtenOao Basica (Basic Health
Care Agreement) with annual targets for the coverage of Basic Care
programs in the municipality.
The second reform consists of granting qualifying municipalities Gestao
Plena do Sistema Municipal, a status that entitles municipalities to
receive block transfers directly from the federal government to finance
all levels of care for their population. For municipalities in this
status, the state no longer channels the federal transfers (as it does
elsewhere). While the municipalization of Basic Care is now virtually
universal and is generally judged to be irreversible and successful, the
municipalization of complex care covers a small fraction of municipalities
and remains controversial on efficiency grounds. There is a growing
concern that decentralizing Complex Care to municipalities is creating
inefficiencies due to: (i) a loss of the economies of scale that
characterize the production of most complex medical services; (ii) a
reduction in the size of the risk-pool used to finance complex care; and
(iii) a large increase in transaction costs associated with the need to
replicate administrative functions in all municipalities. In order to
retain the benefits of devolving power of decision making to
municipalities and to overcome the problems of excessive fragmentation,
the Federal Government and the Government of Bahia are supporting the
creation of multi-municipal health micro-regions (described below).
Financing of health care and inequality
The history of SUS includes a series of attempts to achieve sustainability
by introducing cost controls in health expenditures and by attempting to
secure greater financing from sub-national governments. Upon its
creation, SUS allocations to each provider in the country were decided by
the federal government and costs were kept under control by allowing
inflation to erode the value of the fee schedule used to reimburse
services (the tabela SUS). A fiscal crisis in 1993 gave the impetus for
the introduction of an explicit system of cost controls that consisted of
dividing the federal health budget into state budgets and giving state
governments the authority to allocate these budgets. The granting of
budgetary power to state governments was conceived as a transitional
phase, as the constitution gives this responsibility to municipal
governments. State governments maintained - and sometimes increased--the
concentration of federally funded health expenditures in few geographic
locations within the state and within these locations allocated the funds
to individual providers without the benefit of transparent allocation
rules. Since 1996, there have been attempts to shift the authority over
federal resources from the state governments to municipalities. Since
2001 there is an additional attempt to create multi-municipal health
microregions that would manage part of these resources. On the revenue
side and following on the steps of the education sector, in 2000 Congress
approved Constitutional Amendment 29 requiring states and municipalities
to earmark respectively 12% and 15% of their revenues for health.
In 2000, Bahia spent the equivalent of 6.7% of the state GDP on health
care. The public sector finances 45% of this expenditure. The Federal
Government was the largest contributor, with 57% of the total; its
transfers were earmarked to Basic Care (27%), medium complexity care (639)
- 2 -



and high complexity care (10%). Federal transfers for Basic Care go
directly to municipalities under the PAB system. Nineteen of the 417
municipalities of the state have qualified for Gestao Plena do Sistema
Municipal, and receive 9% of the federal transfers to Bahia for Medium
Complexity Care. The state government in Bahia continues to handle two
thirds of the federal transfers for health. The state government finances
roughly one quarter of public expenditures in health, nearly 80% of that
is spent on medium complexity procedures provided by the state
government's directly owned network of hospitals. The state government
assigns only a small proportion of its budget to Basic Care. The
Municipalities finance about 20% of total public sector health spending in
Bahia from their own resources. Roughly forty percent of this is spent on
Basic Care, with the remainder devoted to medium complexity procedures.
There are substantial variations in health spending among individual
municipalities, this is not surprising given that they range in population
(from 2,987 to 2.25 million) and in status (with 19 certified for gestao
plena).
There exist major inequalities in the geographic distribution of public
health resources within Bahia. In per capita terms, some micro-regions
consume six to ten times more Complex Care than others. Inequity in the
geographical distribution of spending financed by the state government is
even greater than the inequity in the distribution of federal transfers.
As the state spends mostly on the payroll of its own hospitals, the
localities where these hospitals reside obtain the largest benefits. The
largest single problem of inequality is the concentration of health
resources in Metropolitan Salvador. Estimates of the benefits received by
the local population suggest that with around 18% of the state population,
Metropolitan Salvador consumes 30% of the federal transfers for complex
care and 57% of state-financed health expenditures - this is equivalent to
about 40% of combined federal and state-government funds.
Government Strategy
Following a long and participatory political process, the Government in
2001 issued its Norma Operacional de Assistoncia de Saude - NOAS, which
builds on the NOBs by expanding the use of per capita payments to cover a
wider package of services and by completing the transfer of the management
of federal funds to micro-regions. The main objective of NOAS is the
promotion of greater equity and access to all levels of health care. It
attempts to achieve this objective by breaking with the tradition of
having State Governments allocate funds to health providers and allocating
them more directly to populations. The municipalities for Basic Care and
multi-municipal health micro-regions for medium complexity care will be
"fundholders" for their populations. The main features of NOAS are the
following:
n Mandates an expansion in the basic package and in capitation payments.
It requires municipalities (who will remain in charge of Basic Care) to
provide a wider array of services (now called PAB-ampliado or PAB-A) to
their populations. Services must now include interventions for the
control of tuberculosis, Hansen's disease, hypertension, diabetes,
childcare, maternal care, and dental care, plus a list of specific
diagnostic and treatment services. It also increases the share of funds
that are distributed automatically on a per-capita basis to
- 3-



municipalities, by increasing the value of capitations associated with
PAB-A, and by creating a new per-capita payment distributed to
micro-regions to provide Ml services.
n Creates micro-regions and mandates the use of transparent systems for
the distribution of federal resources for Complex Care. It requires states
to divide their territory into multi-municipal health micro-regions and to
allocate federal funds for Complex Care to these micro-regions using a
participatory process (Programa6ao Pactuada e Integrada - PPI -
Intergovernmental budget Programming). Budget planning would be based on
needs estimated using the size and the epidemiological status of the
population of each municipality. Micro-regions would then be entitled to
manage their complex care budget. Investment Planning (developing a Plano
Director de Investimento -PDI) would be based on the identification of
supply gaps by microregion and would assign new resources giving priority
to micro-regions that do not have the minimum required supply of medium
complexity services.
n Establishes more transparent systems to manage care at the local level
based on the use of networks. It requires micro-regions to implement
standardized management tools to improve the regulation of medium
complexity care (Centrais de Regula6ao). These management tools will be
used to emphasize preventive care and to rationalize the use of complex
care by strengthening the use of referrals from Basic Care professionals
to prioritize access to complex care. It also requires states to implement
transparent management tools for the use of high cost/high complexity
interventions.
n Makes the state responsible for monitoring and evaluating the
performance of municipalities in the implementation of key health
programs. States become responsible for ensuring compliance of
municipalities with the Basic Care targets set by Pactos de Aten6ao
Basica. States also become responsible for ensuring that small
municipalities obtain effective access to referrals in services provided
in large municipalities (and financed with resources budgeted through the
PPI).
2. Objectives
The development objectives of the Bahia Health Program are to implement
the national policy of health care decentralization seeking to: (i)
improve access of the poor to Basic Health Care, as measured by 10
Performance Indicators that measure the coverage and quality of the health
interventions with the greatest influence over child mortality, maternal
mortality, and the incidence of diseases prevalent among the poor; (ii)
reduce inequities in the use of publicly funded health care services, as
measured by differentials between per-capita regional budgets; and (iii)
improve the efficiency and quality in the use of public resources, as
measured by the implementation of regulation systems mandated by national
policies.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's value added to the project can be summarized as follows: i)
Global international experience and expertise; ii) Broader strategic
perspective on the sector and state-focused policy advise; iii)
Coordination with other donors and developmental institutions to support
- 4 -



the project; and iv) Ability to mobilize large financial resources. The
Bank will bring worldwide experience to enrich policy dialogue with state
authorities and improve project design and implementation. The Bank will
also foster study tours and field visits to other relevant international
and national experiences. The Bank will encourage communication and
collaboration among key government agencies and ministries, as well as
with other developmental agencies and donors. The Bank will facilitate
collaboration with Brazilian states implementing similar reforms.
4. Description
Component I. Implementation of health micro-regions in Bahia. (US$ 21.7
million, including contingencies)
A. Strengthening management and governance of micro-regions. To
strengthen the role of the micro-region as a purchaser of health care
services, the project will support: (i) technical assistance for the
deployment of performance based contracts between the micro-regions and
their local providers, (ii) TA, works and equipment for the implementation
of Regulation Centers; and (iii) technical assistance and training for the
adaptation of SUS card technology to the local conditions and the
implementation of applications that address the needs of microregional
management. To strengthen the capacity of micro-regions to conduct
clinical, environmental and financial audits of providers and to initiate
a process of accreditation, the project will support: (i) turn-key
contracts to develop auditing and accreditation systems; (ii) technical
assistance for the preparation of Medical Waste Plans in health care
facilities and implementation of existing local environmental assessment
and licensing of health centers; and (iii) training to teach audits and
accreditation techniques.
Micro-regions must develop governance systems that balance the priorities,
needs and capacities of large municipalities, their small surrounding
municipalities and the state. No firm blueprint exists for this system of
governance, and they will need to evolve based on trial and error. The
systems will be defined during implementation. The project will support
this process by financing: (i) the initial costs of implementing local
governing bodies, (ii) the implementation of micro-regional planning and
budgeting tools, (iii) meetings and seminars for municipal health
secretaries, and field trips for members of the governing body to visit
other states that have successfully implemented micro-regions, (iv)
monitoring and evaluation activities.
B. Equipment for the first Level of Medium Complexity Healthcare (Ml).
SESAB has established 31 micro-regions in Bahia. The project will finance
equipment for micro-regions in which a municipio polo has met two
conditions: (i) it has signed agreements with its partner municipalities
to engage in management and regulation of the micro-regional healthcare
network through its Micro-Regional Regulation Center, and (ii) it has
developed a work plan to achieve full management capacity (Gestao Plena
Municipal) within three years. Financial support will be provided for
purchase of equipment from a restricted list.
C. Support for Management improvements in the Municipality of Salvador.
An Action Plan has been agreed between the Municipality of Salvador and
- 5-



SESAB to strengthen the management capacity of the Municipality with the
aim of acquiring Gestao Plena by 2004. The project would provide the
technical assistance required to implement this action plan, including:
(i) developing a system of reference and counter reference in Salvador -
including the use of gatekeepers in the tertiary hospitals; (ii)
implementing Regulation Centers with the capacity to purchase basic and
medium complexity services from public and private providers and with the
capacity to exercise audits; (iii) preparing a study of environmental
health in the Municipality; (iv) creating a planning and budgeting office
in the Municipal Health Secretariat, charged with managing a Fondo
Municipal de Saude; (v) support for the development and maintenance of
epidemiological and administrative data-bases.
Component II: Strengthening capacity for policy implementation and
regulation in SESAB (US$4.3 million, including contingencies)
A.  Information Systems, Monitoring and Evaluation.     Implementing and
analyzing two large health, demographic and social household surveys; the
first at project start to provide a baseline for the project and the
second at completion of the first phase of APL1. Support will also be
provided for other monitoring and evaluation requirements of the project.
B. Policy Studies. Policy studies will be carried out under the project
to support the development of contracts, reforms of the payment systems
(related to the Tabela SUS), improvements of environmental management of
medical waste, and improvement of the coverage of indigenous,
afro-brazilian and other excluded populations.
C. Control and Management of High Complexity Care. This sub-component
will strengthen the capacity of SESAB as a purchaser and auditor of high
complexity care and will initiate accreditation activities for high
complexity providers. This component will finance technical assistance and
training required for the introduction of performance contracting, the
deployment of a Regulation Center for High Complexity Care at the state
level, the strengthening of audit functions in high complexity care and
the initiation of accreditation of health care providers of high
complexity care.
Component III. Expansion of Basic Care (US$20.9 million, including
contingencies)
A. Strengthening the Pacto de Atencao Basica. This sub-component will
strengthen the state's role in planning, negotiating, monitoring and
evaluating the Pactos by providing technical assistance, training and
equipment for the: Implementation of a state-level system of planning
municipal targets, development of a system of consistency checks between
the various databases pertaining to Basic Care, and quarterly reporting to
the State Council of progress towards Pacto targets for each microregion.
It will also ensure that quality norms for Basic Care are being followed
by the: (i) Implementation of protocols for the delivery of the priority
health programs, for the improved reception and warmth in the manner of
dealing with patients, and for the recording and maintenance of clinical
histories. (ii) Implementation of a system to certify that Family Health
Teams are effectively utilizing the norms of the Family Health Program and
(iii) Supervision of a pre-defined sample of municipalities to certify
- 6 -



compliance with existing norms and protocols of Basic Care.
B. Strengthening the Basic Pharmacy Program. (i) Implementation of an
internet-based price-bank (including data of prices paid for basic drugs)
and a system of e-purchases for municipalities; (ii) training of state and
municipal staff in the use of the price-bank and e-purchases; (iii)
improvement in local-level storage capacity in active micro-regions; (iv)
implementation of a communications campaign to improve the rational use of
drugs.
C. Basic Care Expansion Subprojects. This sub-component will support the
expansion of Basic Care services in 30-40 municipalities during phase 1 of
the APL. This will be achieved through the implementation of Basic Care
Expansion Subprojects designed to obtain measurable progress in ten
performance indicators from the Pacto de Atencao Basica to monitor
progress in priority interventions designed to achieve reduce: (i) infant
mortality, (ii) maternal mortality, (iii) malnutrition; and (iv) incidence
of "diseases of the poor"; and to strengthen the Family Health Program.
The implementation arrangements will be described in detail in the
operations manual of the subprojects and is summarized in Annex 2 and 6.
While project contents will be determined by demand, SESAB expects an
emphasis on the following areas: (i) Strengthening the supply of basic
services by: remodeling of health centers (including the conversion of
small municipal general hospitals into outpatient family health facilities
with limited 24 hour emergency service); procurement of basic medical,
transport and communications equipment; and the hiring of incremental
health care workers (these workers would not be hired as civil servants).
(ii) Institutional modernization and strengthening of information systems
by providing technical assistance and training directed to addressing the
mandatory municipal health management programs; and (iii) Training and
supervision.
Subprojects will be based on a Basic Care Expansion Plan which will
include targets for each of the 10 indicators of the Pacto de Atencao
Basica, an assessment of the status of implementation of municipal health
management programs mandated by the federal and state governments, a local
environmental health plan, estimated costs of the sub-project, a
sustainability proposal including the use of municipal and state funds
that will be phased-in as project funds face out, a procurement plan for
sub-project implementation and a disbursement plan. In order to overcome
capacity constraints, the project will finance technical assistance to
interested municipalities, and the regional outposts of SESAB will receive
special training to support municipalities in the preparation of the
Plans. Also, the participating municipalities will be clustered together
in a few micro-regions during the initial years of implementation favoring
cross-learning and making it easier to provide them with technical
assistance. The Basic Care Expansion Plans will form the basis for
subproject Implementation Agreements (Termo de Responsabilidade) between
the municipalities and the State, which will set forth the respective
obligations regarding subproject implementation. If in any year the
municipality fails to achieve at least 6 of the 10 targets, SESAB, in
coordination with the Bank, may decide to suspend disbursements. There
will be minimum criteria for eligibility and a system of points for the
final selection of municipalities. Municipalities can propose to use the
subproject funds to procure any goods, services, and minor works. Only
-7 -



major civil works, or hiring of permanent staff (civil servants) will not
be financed with subproject funds.
Component IV. Project Coordination Unit (US$2.9 million).
The proposed project will finance a small coordination unit for the
project, including refurbishment of existing space within SESAB, office
equipment, vehicles, technical assistance to ensure adequate
implementation of the project, and operating costs for the unit.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $20.10
IBRD $30.00
IDA
Total Project Cost $50.10
6. Implementation
The Bahia Health project is expected to be implemented over a 4 year
period, from July 2003 through June 2007. The program will be subject to
regular evaluations every six months, with yearly evaluations that will
include an assessment of progress towards all performance triggers.
SESAB (Secretaria de Saude de Bahia) will be the principal executing
agency for the program through a project coordination unit (PCU), created
in 2002. Its responsibilities will include: (i) financial oversight of
the program; (ii) coordination with line agencies and departments,
regional offices and external agencies responsible for program activities;
(iii) coordination with municipal governments participating in the
program; and (iv) overall monitoring and evaluation activities.
Responsibility for program activities will be coordinated by the PCU and
implemented by SESAB line agencies and by participating municipalities.
All participating municipalities will sign performance agreements with
SESAB.
Procurement will be carried out by: (i) SESAB's specialized procurement
department and its regional offices; (ii) the State Secretariat of
Administration (for vehicles and civil works); and (iii) participating
municipalities (for subprojects). Under certain conditions described in
annex 6, the municipalities will carry out the procurement using the
national regulations. A procurement plan for the first year has been
prepared and detailed arrangements will be described in the operational
manual of the project.
Financial management will be carried out by the financial team of the PCU.
This team will also carry out risk assessments of the participating
municipalities. An integrated information system is being developed for
SESAB based on the highly rated system in use in the Secretariat of
Education of Bahia. The Tribunal de Contas do Estado da Bahia (TCEBA) will
carry out the annual financial audits of the project accounts. The
project will report in the format of Financial Management Reports on a
quarterly basis.
-8-



7. Sustainability
Brazilian health expenditures have been growing at a rapid rate and are
now at a high level for Latin America. One of the objectives of
decentralizing health care in Brazil is to improve the sustainability of
the health system by imposing hard budget constraints on budget holders
(previously the state-government, today municipalities and micro-regions)
and by increasing the share of financing provided by sub-national
governments (to be achieved by a combination of federal matching grants
and other incentives and the implementation of Constitutional Amendment 29
which mandates minimum levels of spending in health). The APL will
contribute to implementing these policies; hence, the APL would contribute
to the sustainability of the Bahian health system. The main risk at this
level is that the Municipality of Salvador (which today assigns to health
only a third of what it is required according to Constitutional Amendment
29) refuses to take charge of its local health system and that Salvador
continue to absorb a growing share of public expenditures.
At a more micro-level, one must consider the sustainability of the
specific activities to be supported by the APL, and here, there are
significant risks. Multi-municipal micro-regions are intrinsically
unstable because municipal politics lead to a desire for local level
investments that create patronage. APL1 is designed to support the
exploration of governance systems to overcome those tendencies. An
additional challenge at this level is the likely cost of implementing
management structures - internationally, these are known to have the
potential for increased efficiency, but to require high administrative
costs in the range of 10. to 209 of health expenditures.    The APL will
finance the initial cost of these management structures (including
substantial up-start counterpart financing from the state government), but
their future cost is unknown.
Most municipal sub-projects for the expansion of Basic Care will lead to
higher recurrent costs. For most municipalities, this is expected to be
sustainable, given that Constitutional Amendment 29 requires a higher
allocation of resources for health than what is presently
available--hence, the sub-project will finance a rapid increase in the
level of expenditures that will then be sustained based on local
contributions. There remains a special concern about the sustainability
of Family Health teams--as explained above, their cost per beneficiary is
highest in remote municipalities and the existing federal subsidy is far
short of the cost--their sustainability may require a permanent increase
in transfers from the federal or state-government (because of this risk,
sub-projects for family health teams will only be implemented where a
credible sustainability plan exists).
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project preparation team carried out extensive research on lessons
learned from other projects to improve project design and implementation
strategies. Various sources of information were consulted including the
World Bank's operational and evaluation work. The team also reviewed
technical and evaluation work done by other development agencies and
looked at relevant experiences produced in the Brazilian context.
-9-



Lessons learned from the Bank's operational and evaluation work. The
project lessons were extracted from several types of documents: i) ICRs
from the following Brazilian projects: Second Northeast Basic Health
Services (98), AIDS and STD Control (98), Amazon Basin Malaria Control
(97), and Endemic Disease Control (97); ii) Mid-term-review of the ongoing
REFORSUS project (99); and iii) OED's reports: Investing in Health:
Development Effectiveness in the Health, Nutrition, and Population Sector
(99), and The Brazil Health System: Impact Evaluation Report (98). The
main lessons from these documents are summarized in the table below.
In addition to the above, the project preparation team looked at project
documentation and implementation arrangements (SARs/PADs and Operational
Manuals) from the following World Bank Projects: Bahia Municipal
Infrastructure Development and Management Project (PRODUR), Bahia
Education Program, Brazil VIGISUS Project, Ceara Urban Development and
Water Resource Management Project, Brazil Rural Poverty Alleviation
Project, Saint Lucia Poverty Reduction Fund Project, and Honduras Fourth
Social Investment Fund Project. Special design features from these
projects (specially the procedures for managing the investment fund,
drafting the Program Adhesion Agreement, and making the transfers to the
beneficiaries) will be taken into account for the elaboration of the
operational manual.
Lessons learned from relevant local and international experience. The
project also considered the Country's experience in shaping its design and
implementation strategies. There is a group of project interventions that
already have a fair amount of evidence that support their inclusion in the
program. This group includes the Community and Family Health Programs.
Evidence suggests that these programs have been successful in reducing
infant mortality, improving registration and notification of infant
deaths, and decreasing the volume of hospital admissions. In addition,
these programs are highly valued by the population (World Bank June
2000). On the other hand, there is a second group of project
interventions with promising outcomes that have not been fully developed,
implemented or evaluated yet in the country context. This group of
interventions includes the implementation of health microregions.
Lessons Learned Project Response
Ensure political commitment to the program and build local constituency
for the project Project included in the Government's multi-annual program and
budgetary planning. Continue dialogue/collaboration with other key
sectors (specially Ministry of Planning). Good social assessment,
stakeholder analysis, and participatory plan.
Establish a competent and stable project management team          PCU to be adequately
staffed and appointed by technical merits. PCU gaining experience from
implementation of other World Bank projects: Vigisus, Bahia Education
Program, and REFORSUS.
Ensure adequate institutional capacity for project implementation         Training of key
personnel. Intensive supervision and technical assistance. Allocation of
special project funds to support elaboration of subproject proposals at
the local level.
Create partnerships with other agencies and developmental institutions to
maximize project effectiveness Partnerships have been established between:
n SESAB and Federal University of Bahia/Public Health Institute for
project preparation and implementation.
n SESAB and the State Health Secretariats of Ceara and Sao Paulo for
- 10 -



developing and implementing microregions.
n World Bank and PAHO/WHO for developing the project's M&E system and
micro-regions. World Bank and DFID for strengthening health economics at
the state level.
Address determinants of health that lie outside the medical care system,
including behavioral change and cross-sectoral interventions      The project will support
intersectoral approaches, particularly with water, sanitation, and
education, for the implementation of micro-regions, and the demand-driven
fund for investments on Basic Care and maternal and child health. Basic
Care will be based on community agents and family doctors whose main focus
is on health education.
Avoid complexity and allow flexibility in project design          Phased approach of
project implementation through the choice of an APL. Complex
interventions have been restricted to few selected geographical regions
allowing for concentration of critical inputs such as technical
assistance, supervision, and training. Complex interventions will be
implemented on a pilot basis and rigorously evaluated through an M&E
system.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        An environmental assessment was conducted in August
2002 in order to: (i) carry out an environmental review of the project ant
its institutional arrangements; (ii) assess local environmental guidelines
for environmental assessment and medical waste management; (iii) compile
existing documentation pertaining local norms and legislation regulating
medical waste management; and (iv) draft an Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) for the project. The assessment concluded that the State of BahUa's
environmental regulations and norms contain clear procedures and
guidelines for environmental assessment of health services, proper
handling of medical wastes, proper final disposition of such wastes, and
proper monitoring guidelines for reducing health risks. State and
municipal roles are clearly stated as well. In addition, results from
field visits to health centers in the State of BahUa indicate that local
sanitary and environmental practices for proper handling and disposal of
medical wastes are applied; however, implementation of these norms and
standards in poor rural municipalities may be weak. Some concern remains
as these municipalities do not have the technical capacity to design and
carry out proper waste management plans, including the proper management
and final disposal of medical wastes. Based on these findings the EA
recommended an Environmental Category B rating.
Most of the potential environmental impacts associated with the project
are considered positive. Project components are aimed at increasing
efficiency of hospital care, reducing wasteful health care practices and
better use of resources. However, even though the proposed Project does
not have a direct impact on the environment, the implementation of health
services and the generation of medical wastes as these health centers
provide better services, might have a direct connotation with
environmental implications.
During pre-appraisal, the Bank and SESAB teams discussed the main findings
of the EAR and agreed with the proposed EMP. Counterpart team agreed that
the Project's Operations Manual and Project Implementation Plan would
include the Environmental Management Plan. All actions are considered
within the scope of the project's components and will be the
- 11 -



responsibility of SESAB. No additional staff is required for the
monitoring of the plan. For the provision of municipal assistance, it was
agreed the project would reserve up to 10t of the cost for component 2 of
the Project. No additional studies are needed for the preparation of the
project.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Daniel Cotlear
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-5083
Fax:   (202) 522-1201
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Cleared with: Madalena Dos Santos, Sector Leader, LCC5C
This PID was processed by the InfoShop
during the week ending January 24, 2002.
- 12 -



