ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                     AWorld Free ol Povorty
InfoShop
flic t 'al:l Kant
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/'Updated: 01/21/2003                                        25380
Section I - Basic Information                                           January 21, 2003
A. Basic Project Data
Country: BRAZIL                                         Project ID' P054119
Project: BR-BAFHA HEALTH                                Task Team Leader: Daniel Cotlear
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 15, 2003           IBRD Amount ($m): 30.00
Bank Approval: April 22, 2003                           IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSHD                                    Sector: Central government administration (35%);
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)        Sub-national government administration (35%);
Status: Lending                                         Health (30%)
Theme: Child health (P); Health system performance
(P); Rural services and infrastructure (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The development objectives of the Bahia Health Program are to implement the national policy of health care
decentralization, seeking to: (i) improve access of the poor to Basic Health Care, as measured by 10 Performance
Indicators that measure the coverage and quality of the health interventions with the greatest influence over child
mortality, maternal mortality, and the incidence of diseases prevalent among the poor; (ii) reduce inequities in the
use of publicly funded health care services, as measured by differentials between per-capita regional budgets, and
(iii) improve the efficiency and quality in the use of public resources, as measured by the implementation of
regulation systems mandated by national policies.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Component L. Implementation of health micro-re_gions in Bahia. (US$ 21. 7 million, including continifencies)
A. Strengthening management and governance of micro-regions. To strengthen the role of the micro-region as a
purchaser of health care services, the project will support: (i) technical assistance for the deployment of performance
based contracts between the micro-regions and their local providers, (ii) TA, works and equipment for the
implementation of Regulation Centers; and (iii) technical assistance and training for the adaptation of SUS card
technology to the local conditions and the implementation of applications that address the needs of micro regional
management. To strengthen the capacity of micro-regions to conduct clinical, environmental and financial audits of
providers and to initiate a process of accreditation, the project will support. (i) turn-key contracts to develop
auditing and accreditation systems; (ii) technical assistance for the preparation of Medical Waste Plans in health
care facilities and implementation of existing local environmental assessment and licensing of health centers; and
(iii) training to teach audits and accreditation techniques.
Micro-regions must develop governance systems that balance the priorities, needs and capacities of large
municipalities, their small surrounding municipalities and the state No firm blueprint exists for this system of
governance, and they will need to evolve based on trial and error. The systems will be defined during



2
ISDS
implementation. The project will support this process by financing. (i) the initial costs of implementing local
governing bodies, (ii) the implementation of micro-regional planning and budgeting tools, (iii) meetings and
seminars for municipal health secretaries, and field trips for members of the goverming body to visit other states that
have successfully implemented micro-regions, (iv) monitoring and evaluation activities.
B. Equipment for the first Level of Medium Complexity Healthcare (MI). SESAB has established 31
micro-regions in Bahia. The project will finance equipment for micro-regions in which a municipio polo has met
two conditions The conditions for a micro-region to become eligible will be described in the operational manual. (i)
it has signed agreements with its partner municipalities to engage in management and regulation of the
micro-regional healthcare network through its Micro-Regional Regulation Center, and (ii) it has developed a work
plan to achieve full management capacity (Gestao Plena Municipal) within three years. Financial support will be
provided for purchase of equipment from a restricted list.
C. Support for Management improvements in the Municipality of Salvador.  An Action Plan has been agreed
between the Municipality of Salvador and SESAB to strengthen the management capacity of the Municipality with
the aim of acquiring Gestao Plena by 2004. The project would provide the technical assistance required to
implement this action plan, including (i) developing a system of reference and counter reference in Salvador -
including the use of gatekeepers in the tertiary hospitals; (ii) implementing Regulation Centers with the capacity to
purchase basic and medium complexity services from public and private providers and with the capacity to exercise
audits; (iii) preparing a study of environmental health in the Municipality; (iv) creating a planning and budgeting
office in the Municipal Health Secretariat, charged with managing a Fondo Municipal de Saude, (v) support for the
development and maintenance of epidemiological and administrative data-bases
Component 1L Streng-thening capacity for policy implementation and regulation in SESAB (US$4.3 million,
including contingencies
A. Information Systems, Monitoring and Evaluation. Implementing and analyzing two large health,
demographic and social household surveys, the first at project start to provide a baseline for the project and the
second at completion of the first phase of APLI. Support will also be provided for other monitoring and evaluation
requirements of the project.
B. Policy Studies. Policy studies will be carried out under the project to support the development of contracts,
reforms of the payment systems (related to the Tabela SUS), improvements of environmental management of
medical waste, and improvement of the coverage of indigenous, afro-brazilian and other excluded populations
C. Control and Management of High Complexity Care. This sub-component will strengthen the capacity of
SESAB as a purchaser and auditor of high complexity care and will initiate accreditation activities for high
complexity providers. This component will finance technical assistance and training required for the introduction of
performance contracting, the deployment of a Regulation Center for High Complexity Care at the state level, the
strengthening of audit functions in high complexity care and the initiation of accreditation of health care providers
of high complexity care.
Component 111. Expansion of Basic Care (US$20.9 million, includinE contingencies)
A. Strengthening the Pacto de Atencao Basica. This sub-component will strengthen the state's role in planning,
negotiating, monitoring and evaluating the Pactos by providing technical assistance, training and equipment for the
Implementation of a state-level system of planning municipal targets, development of a system of consistency checks
between the various databases pertaining to Basic Care, and quarterly reporting to the State Council of progress
towards Pacto targets for each microregion. It will also ensure that quality norms for Basic Care are being followed
by the: (i) Implementation of protocols for the delivery of the priority health programs, for the improved reception
and warmth in the manner of dealing with patients, and for the recording and maintenance of clinical histories. (ii)
Implementation of a system to certify that Family Health Teams are effectively utilizing the norms of the Family
Health Program and (iii) Supervision of a pre-defined sample of municipalities to certify compliance with existing
norms and protocols of Basic Care.
B. Strengthening the Basic Pharmacy Program. (i) Implementation of an internet-based price-bank (including
data of prices paid for basic drugs) and a system of e-purchases for municipalities; (ii) training of state and municipal



3
ISDS
staff in the use of the price-bank and e-purchases; (iii) improvement in local-level storage capacity in active
micro-regions, (iv) implementation of a communications campaign to improve the rational use of drugs.
C. Basic Care Expansion Subprojects This sub-component will support the expansion of Basic Care services in
30-40 municipalities during phase I of the APL. This will be achieved through the implementation of Basic Care
Expansion Subprojects designed to obtain measurable progress in ten performance indicators from the Pacto de
Atencao Basica to monitor progress in priority interventions designed to achieve reduce- (i) infant mortality, (n)
maternal mortality, (iii) malnutrition; and (iv) incidence of "diseases of the poor"; and to strengthen the Family
Health Program The implementation arrangements will be described in detail in the operations manual of the
subprojects and is summarized in Annex 2 and 6 While project contents will be determined by demand, SESAB
expects an emphasis on the following areas: (i) Strengthening the supply of basic services by: remodeling of health
centers (including the conversion of small municipal general hospitals into outpatient family health facilities with
limited 24 hour emergency service); procurement of basic medical, transport and communications equipment; and
the hiring of incremental health care workers (these workers would not be hired as civil servants) (ii) Institutional
modermization and strengthening of information systems by providing technical assistance and training directed to
addressing the mandatory municipal health management programs, and (iii) Training and supervision
Subprojects will be based on a Basic Care Expansion Plan which will include targets for each of the 10 indicators of
the Pacto de Atencao Basica, an assessment of the status of implementation of municipal health management
programs mandated by the federal and state governments, a local environmental health plan, estimated costs of the
sub-project, a sustainability proposal including the use of municipal and state funds that will be phased-in as project
funds face out, a procurement plan for sub-project implementation and a disbursement plan. In order to overcome
capacity constraints, the project will finance technical assistance to interested municipalities, and the regional
outposts of SESAB will receive special training to support municipalities in the preparation of the Plans Also, the
participating municipalities will be clustered together in a few micro-regions during the initial years of
implementation favoring cross-learning and making it easier to provide them with technical assistance The Basic
Care Expansion Plans will form the basis for subproject Implementation Agreements (Termo de Responsabilidade)
between the municipalities and the State, which will set forth the respective obligations regarding subproject
implementation. If in any year the municipality fails to achieve at least 6 of the 10 targets, SESAB, in coordination
with the Bank, may decide to suspend disbursements. There will be minimum criteria for eligibility and a system of
points for the final selection of municipalities. Municipalities can propose to use the subproject funds to procure any
goods, services, and minor works. Only major civil works, or hiring of permanent staff (civil servants) will not be
financed with subproject funds.
Component IV. Project Coordination Unit (US$2.9 million).
The proposed project will finance a small coordination unit for the project, including refurbishment of existing space
within SESAB, office equipment, vehicles, technical assistance to ensure adequate implementation of the project,
and operating costs for the unit.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The State of Bahia is one of the poorest states within the Brazilian federation. Recent statistics show that 50% of
Bahians live in poverty, more than twice the country's average. Poverty in the rural areas reaches an alarming 70%
In addition, 55% of the state population, estimated at 13 million inhabitants, has less than four years of study, and a
24% illiteracy rate.
Most of Bahia's health indicators are below country average. High poverty rates, low educational levels, lack of
access to water and sanitation, and unequal access to and poor performance of the health systems, are considered the
main reasons for Bahia's low poor health and nutrition outcomes According to 1996 data, Infant mortality rates in
urban areas are 47 per 1,000 live births, 57 in rural areas; 60% of all infant deaths are due to perinatal causes
Malnutrition among children and pregnant women, and early pregnancy amongst teenagers are also significant in the
State of Bahia.
Despite recent efforts from the State of Bahia to improve access to primary care, there still remains significant gaps
in access to health care amongst the poor. Most of the poor have no or limited access to the primary, secondary



4
ISDS
and/or tertiary health services. Those who have, often travel long distances to receive them. Availability of basis
pharmaceuticals in health facilities is limited, uneven and of poor quality.
The Project will assist the State of Bahia in its efforts to improve the health status of its population, in particular the
poor and vulnerable groups. Project objective is to enhance the equity, quality, and efficiency of the health services
in the State of Bahia. Specifically, the proposed project will: (a) improve access to health care in neglected regions
in the State of Bahia; (b) improve the health system's overall governance and management capacities; and (c)
address key health problems through multi-sector collaboration at the community level, of problems such as teenage
pregnancy. The project will be part of a phased approach nine-year program and it will cover a population of 4.9
million, located in 214 municipalities in the first four years.
Small civil works financed through the project will be located mostly in urban areas, provisions have been taken in
the Project Operations Manual to avoid proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical natural habitats, or any
other culturally or socially sensitive areas, it the case should come, although it is not expected to occur.
B. Cleck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments. Considering the scope of the project and the environmental impacts associated with each component, the
Bahia State Health System Reform Project should be considered as Environmental Category B Most of the potential
environmental impacts associated with the project are considered positive Project components are aimed at increasing
efficiency of hospital care, reducing wasteful health care practices and better use of resources. However, even though
the proposed Project does not have a direct impact on the environment, the implementation of health services and the
generation of medical wastes as these health centers provide better services, might have a direct connotation with
environmental implications, since the final disposition of these wastes might have an impact on surrounding natural
resources and if they are not handled properly they could generate negative effects. Potential negative environmental
impacts can be significantly attenuated with the implementation of environmental criteria in the construction, operation,
and monitoring of health centers.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4 01)                           * Yes Ci No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                              0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                          C Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                      C Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                       C Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                        0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                        C Yes 0 No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Proposed Project does not have a direct impact on the environment, nevertheless, the implementation of health
services and the generation of medical wastes, as these health centers provide better services, might have a direct
connotation with environmental implications, since the final disposition of medical wastes might have an impact on
surrounding natural resources and if they are not handled properly.



5
ISDS
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Based on findings, it was concluded that the State of Bahia's environmental regulations and norms contain clear
procedures and guidelines for environmental assessment of health services, proper handling of medical wastes,
proper final disposition of such wastes, and proper monitoring guidelines for reducing health risks. State and
municipal roles are clearly stated as well. In addition, results from field visits to health centers in the State of Bahia
indicate that local sanitary and environmental practices for proper handling and disposal of medical wastes are
applied; however, implementation of these norms and standards in poor rural municipalities may be weak. Some
concern remains as these municipalities do not have the technical capacity to design and carry out proper waste
management plans, including the proper management and final disposal of medical wastes.
Il.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
An Environmental Management Plan for the Project has been designed, discussed and agreed with counterpart
officials. The EMP for the Project will strengthen the environmental management capacity of SESAB
(implementation unit) as well as the environmental management capacities of participating center municipalities.
The activities included in the EMP are: (i) Implementation of existing local environmental assessment and licensing
of health centers; (n) Mandatory preparation of Medical Waste Plans in each health center of participating
municipalities, as required by Divisao da Vigilancia Sanitaria do Estado da Bahia, (iii) Municipal technical
assistance for the preparation of Solid Waste management plans, including medical wastes, with emphasis in poor
participating municipalities covering over 200 beds equivalent; (iv) Incentives to those center municipalities with
proper solid management plans, where special consideration will be given to center municipalities when competing
for the financing of subprojects; (v) Implementation of environmental criteria in the audit of health services,
according to existing Divisao da Vigilancia Sanitaria (DIVISA) guidelines; (vi) Implementation of local basic
sanitation information, through the financing of information material, according to local existing guidelines; and (vi)
Implementation of environmental criteria during construction and supervision of infrastructure, were needed/ where
applicable.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
During pre-appraisal, the Bank and SESAB teams discussed the main findings of the Environmental Assessment
Report and agreed to the activities proposed in the EMP. Counterpart team agreed that the Project's Operations
Manual and Project Implementation Plan would include the Environmental Management Plan. Except the provision
of municipal technical assistance for the preparation of solid waste management plans, remaining actions are
considered within the scope of the project's components. All actions will be the responsibility of SESAB. No
additional staff is required for the monitoring of the plan. For the provision of municipal assistance, it was agreed
the project would reserve up to 10% of the cost for component 2 of the Project No additional studies are needed for
the preparation of the project.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
People located in the vicinity of landfills which will be utilized as facilities for health waste disposal would be most
likely to be affected. Provisions have been made for SESAB, the implementing agency, to include in the Projects
Operations Manual a set of proper mechanisms and variables for consultation and disclosure of environmental
safeguard policies with local key stakeholders, during the assessment and implementation of these small projects, as
well as the environmental considerations to be incorporated as part of each sub project. Results will be incorporated
in each Medical Waste Management Plan for each health center assisted with resources from the Loan In addition,
SESAB will coordinate the implementation and monitoring of the Medical Waste Management Plan with the CRA,
Bahia's Environmental Agency, in order to provide adequate monitoring of environmental safeguard policies
through the implementation of the Project.



6
ISDS
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
S3. -No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                10/15/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           10/15/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                             1/21/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by      Name                                       Date
Task Team Leader:            Daniel Cotlear                             01/17/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Martin H. Ochoa/Person/World Bank    01/13/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                 Name                                       Date



7
ISDS
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan D. Quintero                           01/17/03
Sector Manager/Director:       Evangeline Javier                            01/17/03
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
CSkAR -H  FEOkC        _r             -5HtASEV     _  m



