Bahia State Health System Reform Proiect
Document of        E742
The World Bank
BAHIA STATE HEALTH SYSTEM
REFORM PROGRAM
STATE OF BAHIA, FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Martin H. Ochoa
Environmental Specialist
November, 2002



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                              Environmental Assessment
Table of Content
Glossary of Terms                                                                   3
1. Summary                                                                          4
2. Project description.                                                             5
2.1. Socioeconomic background of the Health Sector in the State of Bahia.        5
2.2. Proposed project scope.                                                     5
2.2.1 Project Components.                                                    6
2.2.2 Implementation arrangements.                                           6
3 Assessment of the Environmental legal framework associated with health services in the State of
Bahia.                                                                               10
3.1 Environmental legislation in the State of Bahia (Law No. 7.799).             10
3.2 Applicable legislation associated with Sanitary and Environmental Surveillance in the State of
Bahia.                                                                        10
3.3 Legislation associated with Sanitary and Environmental Surveillance in the State of
Bahia.                                                                           12
3.4 Norms and standards associated with management and final disposal of wastes from health
services.                                                                     13
4. Potential environmental impacts associated with the Bahia State Health System Reform
Project.                                                                             15
4.1 Field assessment report.                                                     15
4.2 Potential environmental impacts associated with the Project.                 16
4.3 Project environmental classification.                                        16
5. Environmental Management Plan for the Project.                                    18
5.1 EMP scope.                                                                   18
5.2 EMP monitoring indicators                                                    19
6. Bibliography                                                                      21
Tables
Table 1. Bahia State Health System Reform Project components
Table 2. Classification of health centers and sanitary landfills according to magnitude.
Table 3. Environmental impacts associated with the Bahia State Health System Reform Project.
Table 4. Project's Environmental Management Plan.
Annexes
Annex 1. Environmental Legislation in the State of Bahia (Lei Estadual No.7,799).
Annex 2. Applicable Sanitary and environmental surveillance legislation in the State of Bahia.
Annex 3. Detailed norms and procedures for separation, classification, collection and final disposal of
health services wastes.
Annex 4. Field assessment report (complementary section).
Annex 5. Template for preparing Health Services Waste management Plans.
2



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                                             Environmental Assessment
Annex 6. Environmental criteria to be included in the audit of health services.
Annex 7. Environmental criteria applicable in construction of civil works.
,
3



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                                Environmental Assessment
Glossary of Terms
CONAMA              National Council for the Environment
CRA                 Environmental Resources Center/ Centro de Recursos Ambientais
DIVISA              Divisao da Vigilancia Sanitaria/ Division for Sanitary Surveillance
EAR                 Environmental Assessment Report
EMP                 Environmental Management Plan
HSWMPs              Health Services Waste Management Plans
PAD                 Project Appraisal Document
PAHO                Pan American Health Organization
SESAB               Secretaria de Saude do Estado da Bahia/ Secretary of Health for the State of
Bahia
4



Bahia State Health System Reform Proiect                            Environmental Assessment
1. Summary
The Environmental Assessment Report (EAR) for the Bahia State Health System Reform Project has been
designed as a stand-alone document, to be included as annex to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).
The EAR incorporates an assessment of project scope, components and activities, and their potential
environmental impacts, both positive and negative. The EAR includes an assessment of State of Bahia's
existing environmental framework related to the provision of health services and management of medical
wastes, an environmental assessment of each of the components of the Project, and based on the
assessment an Environmental Management Plan (EMP). The EMP is oriented to strengthen the efforts
initiated by the SESAB to improve the health status, including sanitary and environmental aspects, of the
population in the State of Bahia, in particular the poor and vulnerable groups.
The EAR covers in detail aspects related to current sanitary surveillance and environmental laws. Based
on findings, it is concluded that the State of Bahia's environmental regulations and norms contain clear
procedures and guidelines for environmental assessment of health services, proper handling of medical
wastes, proper final disposition of such wastes, and proper monitoring guidelines for reducing health risks.
State and municipal roles are clearly stated as well. In addition, results from field visits to health centers
in the State of Bahia indicate that local sanitary and environmental practices for proper handling and
disposal of medical wastes are applied; however, implementation of these norms and standards in poor
rural municipalities may be weak. Some concern remains as these municipalities do not have the technical
capacity to design and carry out proper waste management plans, including the proper management and
final disposal of medical wastes.
Considering the scope of the project and the environmental impacts associated with each component, the
Bahia State Health System Reform Project should be considered as Environmental Category B. Most of
the potential environmental impacts associated with the project are considered positive. Project
components are aimed at increasing efficiency of hospital care, reducing wasteful health care practices and
better use of resources. However, even though the proposed Project does not have a direct impact on the
environment, the implementation of health services and the generation of medical wastes as these health
centers provide better services, might have a direct connotation with environmental implications, since the
final disposition of these wastes might have an impact on surrounding natural resources and if they are not
handled properly they could generate negative effects. Potential negative environmental impacts can be
significantly attenuated with the implementation of environmental criteria in the construction, operation,
and monitoring of health centers.
The Project's EMP will strengthen the environmental management capacity of SESAB as well as the
environmental management capacities of participating center municipalities. EMP activities include: (i)
Implementation of existing local environmental assessment and licensing of health centers; (ii)
Mandatory preparation of Medical Waste Plans in each health centei'of participating municipalities, as
required by Division de Vigilancia Sanitaria del Estado de Bahia; (iii) Municipal technical assistance for
the preparation of Solid Waste management plans, including medical wastes, with emphasis in poor
participating municipalities covering over 200 beds equivalent; (iv) Incentives to those municipios polo
with proper solid management plans, where special consideration will be given to municipios polo when
competing for the financing of subprojects; (v) Implementation of environmental criteria in the audit of
health services, according to existing Divisao da Vigilancia Sanitaria (DIVISA) guidelines; (vi)
Implementation of local basic sanitation information, through the financing of information material,
according to local existing guidelines; and (vi) Implementation of environmental criteria during
construction and supervision of infrastructure, were needed/ where applicable.
During pre-appraisal, the Bank and SESAB teams discussed the main findings of the EAR and agreed
with the proposed EMP. Counterpart team agreed that the Project's Operations Manual and Project
Implementation Plan would include the Environmental Management Plan. Except the provision of
municipal technical assistance for the preparation of solid waste management plans, remaining actions are
considered within the scope of the project's components. All actions will be the responsibility of SESAB.
No additional staff is required for the monitoring of the plan. For the provision of municipal assistance, it
5



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                              Environmental Assessment
was agreed the project would reserve up to 10% of the cost for component 2 of the Project. No additional
studies are needed for the preparation of the project.
2. Project description.
The following sections represent a summary of key issues and project objectives described in the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD). Detailed information on Project Development Objectives, socio economic
context, main sector issues addressed, project implementation arrangement and project costs can be
obtained in the PAD.
2.1. Socioeconomic background of the Health Sector in the State of Bahia.
The State of Bahia is one of the poorest states within the Brazilian federation. Recent statistics show that
50% of bahians live in poverty, more than twice the country's average. Poverty in the rural areas reaches
an alarming 70%. In addition, 55% of the state population, estimated at 13 million inhabitants, has less
than four years of study, and a 24% illiteracy rate.
Most of Bahia's health indicators are below country average. High poverty rates, low educational levels,
lack of access to water and sanitation, and unequal access to and poor performance of the health systems,
are considered the main reasons for Bahia's low poor health and nutrition outcomes. According to 1996
data, Infant mortality rates in urban areas are 47 per 1,000 live births, 57 in rural areas; 60% of all infant
deaths are due to perinatal causes. Malnutrition among children and pregnant women, and early
pregnancy amongst teenagers are also significant in the State of Bahia.
Despite recent efforts from the State of Bahia to improve access to primary care, there still remains
significant gaps in access to health care amongst the poor. Most of the poor have no or limited access to
the primary, secondary and/or tertiary health services. Those who have, often travel long distances to
receive them. Availability of basis pharmaceuticals in health facilities is limited, uneven and of poor
quality.
Bahia's current health care delivery model is based on a curative approach, hospital centered, and with
inadequate referral systems. Hospital admissions are susceptible of ambulatory care and patients are
submitted without previous filter from the primary care level. Referral system suffers from weak
institutional capacity at the local level, high administrative transactional costs, loss of economies of scale,
and duplication of service provision.
At the municipal level, responsibilities transferred to local governments are considered as an extraordinary
institutional burden. Municipalities are responsible for procurement and distribution of pharmaceuticals,
increasing the risk of acquiring pharmaceuticals of poor quality and high prices. With transfers from the
SESAB, municipalities are also responsible for financing, regulating, and purchasing health services.
However, evaluation of municipal performance indicates several weaknesses, including poor planning and
programming, poor accounting and financial control mechanisms, inadequate management and
information systems, amongst others.
2.2. Proposed project scope.
According to the PAD, the Bahia State Health Reform Project will assist the State in its efforts to improve
the health status of its population, in particular the poor and vulnerable groups. Project objective is to
enhance the equity, quality, and efficiency of the health services in the State of Bahia. Specifically, the
proposed project will: (a) improve access to health care in neglected regions in the State of Bahia; (b)
improve the health system's overall governance and management capacities; and (c) address key health
problems through multi-sector collaboration at the community level, of problems such as teenage
pregnancy. The project will be part of a phased approach nine-year program and it will cover a population
of 4.9 million, located in 214 municipalities in the first four years.
6



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                                Environmental Assessment
The Project will target its investments into Bahia's poorest geographical regions and to pregnant women
and children under 5. It will also help SESAB develop a new formula for improving equity in the
allocation of financial resources within the state. Community and private sector participation in the
provision of health services will be fostered; the project will attempt to increase private sector
participation in the management of public facilities and the provision of basic services. Integration with
the education sector will also be fostered; in particular those actions aimed a preventing teenage
pregnancy and promotion of school health.
The project will contribute Bahia's government strategy to promote sustainable economic growth and
fight poverty, improving access to basic education and health services and the human capital in the State.
It will also contribute to Bahia's health sector priorities, improving he health status of children, women
and indigenous communities, reducing the incidence of communicable diseases, and improving the
performance of the health system.
2.2.1 Project components.
The estimated cost of the Bahia State Health System Reform Project is US$ 50 million, 60% financed by
the World Bank. Project consists of three components: (i) Support for micro regions in the State of Bahia;
(ii) Strengthening SESAB core functions; and (iii) support for Basic Health. Table 1 shows a summary of
project component, activities and costs, according to the PAD.
Table 1. Bahia State Health System Reform Project components
Components/Activities                                                Costs US$
Component 1. Support for micro regions in the State of Bahia.        23.0 million
A. Strengthening the administrative and management capacity of
micro-regional Regulation Centers.
B. Purchasing basic medium complexity equipment for micro regions.
C. Strengthening of public health functions at the micro-regional level.
D. Assistance with investment in equipment to support MI level of
medium complexity health care services.
Component 2. Strengthening SESAB core functions.                      9.0 million
A. Information System, Monitoring and Evaluation.
B. Policy development.
C. Strengthening the management capacity in the Municipality of
Salvador.
D. Implementation of a High Complexity State Center.
Component 3. Support for Basic Health.                               17.0 mnillion
A. Strengthening the Pactos de Atenci6n Basica.
B. Sub-projects for the expansion of the Family Health Program.
2.2.2 Implementation arrangements
2.2.2.1 Component 1. Support for micro regions in the State of Bahia (US$ 23 million) ..
A. Strengthening the administrative and management capacity of micro-regional centers of
regulation
As described in the PAD, this subcomponent will finance three functional domains to improve the
effectiveness of administrative and management health functions in selected micro-regions.
Subcomponent will help improve the quality of health care that is delivered in the micro-region, to
I For detailed information on subproject scope and costs, please refer to the PAD.
7



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                                 Environmental Assessment
improve the efficiency of hospital care, to detect and reduce fraud and abuse, to identify and reduce
wasteful healthcare practices, and to increase provider accountability for service quality and access.
Subcomponent will assist in the development and deployment of Regulation Centers at the micro-regional
level, located in central municipalities (municipios polo). Activities will support management functions,
to assure that care is being delivered in an appropriate and equitable manner.
The project will also help strengthen the role of the micro-region as a purchaser of health care services.
Activities include: (i) the development and deployment of performance based contracts and the
development and deployment of a contracting department at the micro-regional level. (ii) the
development of resources that will be required to deploy new Regulation Centers in the micro-regions.
(iii) provide financial support for the process currently underway by the Ministry of Health to develop,
distribute, and maintain the SUS Card (Sistema Unico de Saude). (iv) support for the convening of the
CIB and the production of a micro-regional PPI, including sponsoring meetings and seminars for
municipal health secretaries, and sponsoring field trips for members of the CIBs to visit other states that
have successfully completed a regional PPI process.
Technical assistance will develop clinical protocols that will guide the referral review and gatekeeping
functions of the Regulation Centers, to support the writing of performance based contracts and to develop
performance measures for those contracts.
Subcomponent will also build a strong auditing function at the level of the micro-region. In order to
effectively serve in an evaluative and monitoring capacity, the micro-regional Regulation Center will have
the capacity to conduct detailed clinical and financial audits of providers and facilities. Performance-
based contracting will require accurate data derived from these audits in order to determine if the
contracted provider will be in compliance with the contract goals. Audit functions will also serve as a
control mechanism to assure provider accountability for efficiency and quality of care, as well as to detect
fraud, abuse, and ineffective practices.
To build a strong auditing function at the level of the micro-region, the project will support the following
activities: (i) hire an external consultant with experience in the development and deployment of a care
management infrastructure to provide SESAB with turn-key operations of the auditing functions noted
above. (ii) develop courses to teach physician and nurse auditors the techniques of evaluation of patient
care through the use of standards of care and clinical protocols. (iii) develop courses to train hospital
personnel in the techniques of internal quality review and the investigation and reporting of sentinel
events. (iv) develop strategies to recruit qualified personnel to perform these audit functions.
In addition, subcomponent will initiate accreditation of health care providers and facilities. Accreditation
and licensing are important roles in the surveillance of the micro-regonal provider network. Audit data
revealing fraud, inadequate service quality, and other deficits will be reported, tracked, and fed back to the
contracting section on a regular basis. Accountability for discipline and sanctions for poor quality or non-
compliance with policy also resides in the accreditation section. Accreditation will be based on standard
criteria (such as those of the Joint Commission, for facilities). To build a strong accreditation function at
the level of the micro-region, the project will support the following activities: (i) external consultants to
assist the micro-regions in the development and deployment of standard systems of accreditation and
standard record-keeping systems. (ii) provide training courses for accreditation personnel in the methods
of accreditation, including the use of standard guidelines for accreditation of hospitals.
B. Assistance with Investment in Equipment to Support Ml Level of Medium Complexity
Healthcare Services.
The project will finance equipment for micro-regions. Financial support will be provided for purchase of
equipment for minor surgical suites, urgent care centers, ultrasound, radiography, clinical laboratory,
small vehicles for transport of specimens, and vans for transportation of patients (located at the central
municipalities). Financing will also support the purchase of vehicles to transport patients referred within
the micro-region and to transport specimens from laboratory collection stations to the contracted
8



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                               Environmental Assessment
laboratory. These vehicles will also be used to support the distribution network in the micro-region for the
basic pharmacy program.
C. Strengthening of public health functions at the micro-regional level.
Subcomponent will strengthen public health functions at the micro regional level, within the decentralized
process. The objective within this subcomponent is to complement procurement activities, accreditation,
and auditing, oriented to the functioning of the services networks. Micro regions will need to assume their
epidemiological and environmental surveillance functions, in particular those related to the management
of medical wastes at the primary level of attention; health hazard surveillance, and primary care
monitoring and supervision.
Activities include: (i) definition of a pubic health organizational structure at the micro region levels; (ii)
assessment and adoption of current sanitary legislation; (iii) training in public health at the micro region
level.
The Superindente de Vigilancia eProtecao de Saude (SUVISA) will supervise the implementation of this
subcomponent. SUVISA will be responsible for (i) prepare a proposal for the C6digo Sanitario Estadual;
(ii) coordinate training for micro regional staff; (iii) coordinate studies related to the reorganization of
micro regions. Micro regions will be responsible for hiring their how staff, under SUVISA guidelines.
Each micro region will prepare annual epidemiological surveillance action plans, under the SWVISA
supervision.
D. Strengthening the Basic Pharmacy Assistance Program.
Subcomponent activities will strengthen primary care strategies, promoting access and rational use of
pharmaceuticals in the Basic Pharmacy Assistance (hypertension, diabetes, etc.). Activities include: (i)
strengthening municipal planning capacity and technical assessment of the production cycle at the micro
region levels; (ii) strengthening procurement and payment municipal capacities; (iii) strengthening
regional and state storage capacities; and (iv) promoting the rational use of pharmaceuticals.
2.2.2.2 Component 2. Strengthening SESAB core functions (US$ 9.0 million)2
A. Information Systems, Monitoring and Evaluation.
Subcomponent has two areas: Health and Demographic Surveys and Support for the implementation of
Cartao SUS in selected micro regions.
A. 1 Health and Demographic Surveys. Two surveys (one at project start and the second at
completion of the first phase of APLI) will cover about ten lhousand households, establishing
their main health and demographic characteristics with a questionnaire that will also obtain some
data on household assets and health care use.
A.2. Support for the implementation of Cartao SUS in selected micro regions. The project would
provide technical assistance and financial support to pilot test the implementation of Cartao SUS
in selected micro regions. Micro-regions wishing to advance more rapidly in the implementation
of NOAS would be selected. Cartao SUS is a project conducted by the Ministry of Health, and a
Convenio specifying the responsibility of the Ministry, SESAB, Project and Microregion will be
required. The Convenio would state the type of support and organizational arrangements to be
used. Likely categories of financing include technical assistance, informatics equipment and
training.
B. Policy Studies.
2 For detailed informnation on subproject scope and costs, please refer to the PAD.
9



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                               Environmental Assessment
Sub component will finance three or four studies to support the development of contracts, a reform of the
Tabela SUS and improvements of environmental management of medical waste.
C. Support for Management improvements in the Municipality of Salvador.
The areas of support and the categories to be financed are the same as in component I .A. Implementation
would be a responsibility of the Municipality of Salvador and appropriate legal and financial arrangements
would be made to ensure compliance with all fiduciary responsibilities.
D. Control and Management of High Complexity Care.
This component will finance three functional domains to improve the effectiveness of administrative and
management functions in high complexity care in Bahia. The aims of this component are to improve the
quality of high complexity care that is delivered in the state, to improve the transparency of resource
allocation decisions, to improve the efficiency of hospital care, to detect and reduce fraud and abuse, to
identify and reduce wasteful healthcare practices, and to increase provider accountability for service
quality and access.
2.2.2.3. Component 3. Support for Basic Health (US$ 17 million)3,
A. Technical assistance for the implementation of Pactos de Atenci6n Basica.
Sub component will finance: (i) monitoring and evaluation of health primary care, and (ii) improving the
quality of health in primary care.
B. Sub-projects for the expansion of the Family Health Program.
This component will finance sub-projects to support the expansion of the Family Health program in
participating municipalities. Participating municipalities will prepare a Plano Diretor de Saude da
Familia, indicating the additional human resources that will be made available to the municipality and
their sources of financing, and identifying bottlenecks requiring project support. These bottlenecks will
become identified during the first year of project implementation, but are expected to require subprojects
that finance works, equipment (transport, communication and small medical), training, permanent
education programs. Sub-projects will also finance the conversion of small general hospitals into family
health hospitals (requiring small investments in works and equipment). Sub-projects will also finance
professional development grants that will be made available to family health physicians and professional
nurses upon completion of a period of stay of two years in remote municipalities (note that these
professionals are not civil servants, they are consultants and that part of the objective of the grants would
be to retain them in the remote municipalities).
3 For detailed informnation on subproject scope and costs, please refer to the PAD.
10



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                            Environmental Assessment
3 Assessment of the Environmental Legal framework associated with health services in the
State of Bahia.
3.1 Environmental legislation in the State of Bahia.
Environmental legislation in Brazil is based in a framework classified according to federal, state and
municipal competencies. According to the National Council for Environment (CONAMA), depending on
the extent of the environmental impacts and the project's area of influence, licensing of projects, public or
private, will depend on federal, state or municipal responsibility. Projects with nationwide interventions,
involving neighboring countries, affecting indigenous lands, are subjected to the federal competence of the
Brazilian Institute for Environment and Natural Renewable Resources (IBAMA). Projects affecting more
than one municipality, or which impacts would affect the territory, are subjected to state competence. In
Bahia, state responsibility for environmental assessment falls in the competence of the Bahia
Environmental Resources Center (CRA). Environmental licensing of those activities or projects with
impacts limited to local influence fall in the competence of municipalities.
Environmental legislation is not of recent creation in the State of Bahia. According to the CRA,
environmental legislation for management of natural resources in Bahia was initially established in 1973.
Law No. 3.163 established the Secretary for Planning, Science and Technology and the State Council for
Environment. The Environmental legislation has received several amendments, being Law No. 7.799
from june 2001, the latest amendment.
Current Environmental State Law establishes clear procedures for environmental assessment of those
activities, civil works and services with a significant environmental pollution potential. Implementation of
such works, activities or services depends on norms and regulations defined in State Law No.7.799/01.
Detailed procedures are described in annex 1.
3.2 Environmental legislation associated with waste management and disposal from health services
centers in the State of Bahia.
Health services and solid waste collection, transport, treatment and disposal are specifically addressed in
environmental state legislation Law No.7.799/01 (see annex 1). Each activity can be classified in micro,
small, medium, large or exceptional, according to its magnitude. In the case of health services, the
magnitude is based on the number of beds per center, and in the case of sanitary landfills, magnitude is
measured in tons per day. Using Pan American Health Association estimates, the number of patient-
equivalent per day can be calculated using a ratio of 10 patients per bed. Using this equivalence, micro
scale health posts with less than 30 beds could be attending up to 30Q patients per day. Generation of
medical wastes can be determined indirectly using local references for waste generation (Ministerio de
Saude, Estudos Ambientais, October 2001). References for developing countries indicate a generation of
medical wastes in the order of 1.2 to 3.8 kgs/bed/day and up to 6 kgs./bed/day. Hazardous medical wastes
are also considered in a range of 2 to 10% from the waste generated in health center/hospital. Using same
example, micro scale health posts could be generating up to 114 kgs of medical waste per day, up to 11.4
kgs.per day considered as hazardous. Table 2 shows a classification of health posts, hospitals and sanitary
landfills according to magnitude, based on Bahia's environmental state law.
According to the environmental legislation, each health unit generating medical wastes is responsible for
the safe sanitary and environmental management of its wastes (from generation to final disposition); is
also responsible for the preparation and implementation of a Health Services Waste Management Plans
(HSWMPs); for the proper separation, condition, and identification of wastes; proper environmentally and
sanitary temporary safe storage; and responsible for adopting clean production solutions, where possible
(art. 152, State Law NO.7.799).



Bahia State Health System Reforn Proiect                                Environmental Assessment
Table 2. Classification of health centers and sanitary landfills according to magnitude.
Magnitude     Hospitals/health    Patient equivalent   Sanitary landfills    Population
posts (no. of beds)     per day (4)         (tons/day)         equivalent (5)
Micro               <30                 <300                 <10           <20,000 < 35,000
Small             >30 <50             >300 <500            >10 <20         < 40,000 <70,000
Medium            >50 <100           >500 <1,000           >20 < 60       < 70,000 <200,000
Large            >100 < 200         >1,000 < 2,000         >60 < 100      < 200,000 <350,000
Exceptional         >200                >2,000               >100             > 350,000
Source: Bahia State Law no. 7.799
With respect to environmental licensing of health centers, the Environmental Legislation in Bahia
classifies environmental licenses depending on project magnitude and project cycle. There are six types of
environmental licenses: Site, Implementation, Operation, Altering, Operation post altering, and Simplified
License.
Site location environmental license. Preliminary license. Approves project location, scope, and
environmental viability, sets out basic requisites and conditionalities to be addressed in further
stages of project implementation.
Implementation license. Clears out if project has been constructed according to design
specifications, including environmental control measures.
Operations license. Approves during project operation if activities are in agreement with previous
licenses.
Modification license. If current operation needs to be altered.
Simplified environmental license. License for site location, implementation and operation of
micro and small magnitude activities.
In the case of the state of Bahia, the CRA can issue Simplified Licenses (SLs) for micro and small
projects. Subject to implementation of environmental action plans, SLs can be renewed periodically.
3.3 Legislation associated with Sanitary and Environmental Surveillance in the State of Bahia.
According to State Legislation, Sanitary Surveillance is defined as a set of actions oriented toward the
prevention, mitigation and elimination of health risks, and interventions in sanitary hazards associated
with health, environment and the production of goods and services. In this context, actions can be
characterized as those associated with prevention (e.g. education), regulation (norms and standards),
and/or punitive actions.
The legal framework of Sanitary Surveillance also follows federal, state and municipal distribution.
Federal Constitution of 1988 institutionalized the Sistema Unico de Salud (or SUS), a decentralized
network of actions and public health services following an integrated approach with an active participation
of communities. Within the SUS, Sanitary Surveillance in the state of Bahia includes environmental
protection and sustainable development; basic sanitation; food and water; drugs; health and the working
4 According to PAHO, 10 patients per bed per day on average.
5 According to PAHO, 0.2-0.5 kgs. per person per day on average.
12



Bahia State Health System Refonn Project                               Environmental Assessment
environment; health services and assistance; production of toxic and radioactive material, blood and
derivatives, amongst others (see annex 2 for a compendium of applicable legislation in the state of Bahia).
At the state and regional levels, the Directorate for Sanitary Surveillance and Control (DIVISA), is
responsible for providing planning, coordination, advisory, supervision and assistance to municipal and
regional sanitary surveillance activities. At the municipal level, municipalities are responsible for
inspection and monitoring of public services (e.g. food, pharmaceuticals, and health services). Depending
on the level of development of municipal health services and the implementation of the decentralized
SUS, municipal sanitary surveillance can be classified in either low complexity (municipalities
implementing the Basic Attention phase), or medium to high complexity (municipalities implementing
the full Municipal System).
3.4 Norms and standards associated with management and final disposal of wastes from health
services.
Activities associated with the proper management and final disposal of health wastes are clearly defined in
the State of Bahia. Norms for classification of solid wastes (NBR 10004), management and disposal of
radioactive wastes (CNEN-NE-6.05), specifications for plastic bags suited for solid waste conditioning
(NBR 9190), classification of health services wastes (NBR 12808 and 807), and management of health
service wastes (NBR 12810), are some of the current norms regulating most of the activities associated
with the management and final disposal of wastes from health services.
Wastes from health services are classified according to their biological, physical and chemical
characteristics. By law, all health centers are responsible for the classification of their wastes, according to
the following categories:
Group A: Biological wastes. Wastes containing biological agents or wastes contaminated with
biological wastes, posing high contamination risks to the environment and to public health, such
as blood bags, collected organic fluids and secretions, vaccines and culture dishes, disposable
materials in contact with organic fluids, body parts ad pieces, animals, air condition filters from
isolated rooms, wastes from isolated patients, cutting instruments, and sludge from health centers'
wastewater treatment.
Group B: Chemical wastes. Waste with high contamination risk from their chemical
constituencies, such as corrosive materials, inflammables, expired pharmaceuticals, bactericides,
mercury and lead, disinfectants, cancer treatment drugs, and alike.
Group C: Radioactive wastes: Radionuclide wastes, includiqg those type A, B, and D,
contaminated with radionuclides.
Group D: Common wastes; non-high risk wastes, including paper, plastic, plants and shrubs, food
wastes non-contaminated with organic fluids or those coming from isolated patients.
Each health unit is responsible for the safe sanitary and environmental management of its wastes (from
generation to final disposition); it is also responsible for the preparation and implementation of a Health
Services Waste Management Plans (HSWMPs); for the proper separation, condition, and identification of
wastes; proper environmentally and sanitary temporary safe storage (art. 152, State Law NO.7.799).
HSWMPs must be part of each environmental license.
Proper segregation, identification and conditioning of health residues must be done at each health center.
Groups A, B, and C wastes, except cutting wastes, must be separated and disposed in standardized plastic
bags, and properly labeled. Cutting wastes must be discarded in rigid containers, and also properly
labeled. Once properly segregated and labeled, wastes must be stored externally for collecting.
Final disposition of medical wastes is also normalized in the State of Bahia. Norm 10.157 (landfills for
high risk wastes) defines criteria for design, construction and operation of landfills for high-risk wastes.
13



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                                      Environmental Assessment
In municipalities with no access to lands, alternatives such as impermeable septic tanks and incineration
are also defined. Annex 3 presents detailed guidelines for the proper management and final disposal of
medical wastes, according to the Ministry of Health.
14



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                            Environmental Assessment
4 Potential environmental impacts associated with the Bahia State Health System Reform
Project.
As stated in section 2, the Project has been design to assist the State of Bahia's efforts to improve the
health status of its population, in particular the poor and vulnerable groups. Even though the Project does
not have a direct impact on the environment, the implementation of health services and the generation of
medical wastes as these health centers provide better services, might have a direct connotation with
environmental implications, since the final disposition of these wastes might have an impact on
surrounding natural resources and if they are not handled properly they can have negative effects.
In this regard, the objective of this section is to identify the possible environmental implications of the
project and its components, and from there include the necessary considerations for its prevention and
mitigation in each component to guarantee the environmental quality and sustainability of the decisions of
the technical assistance and investment activities intended. Section incorporates conclusions from field
assessment that included visits to SESAB, CRA, Municipality of Salvador, Municipality of Camacari, mid
to large range hospitals and health posts.
4.1 Field assessment report.
As per Terms of Reference of August 15th 2002, Martin Ochoa visited the State of Bahia in order to: (i)
carry out an environmental review of the project ant its institutional arrangements; (ii) assess local
environmental guidelines for environmental assessment and medical waste management; (iii) compile
existing documentation pertaining local norms and legislation regulating medical waste management; and
(iv) draft an environmental Action Plan for the project.
Results from the visit indicate that local sanitary and environmental practices for proper handling and
disposal of medical wastes are applied. Field visits to primary health centers to medium and large
capacity hospitals in the Salvador and Camacari urban areas indicate application of satisfactory practices
for separation, classification and handling of medical wastes. Visits to the municipal sanitary landfill and
to the operator of the waste collection services in Camacari indicate proper collection and final disposal of
medical wastes.
The typical type of medical waste generated in primary health centers include disposed syringes,
contaminated bands and bandages, flasks, vials, blood from emergency procedures, and alike. Even
though these types of centers do not provide over night services (although some might have emergency
rooms), it is estimated that the waste generated by 10 patients is equivalent to one bed, and that each bed
generates between 0.5 and 3.0 pounds of medical waste per day. Significant environmental and health
risks will be posed in areas where the medical waste of more than 200 patients per day will be collected
and where no proper final disposition is provided, as the collection arid final disposition of these wastes is
a municipal responsibility at this moment.
Discussions with SESAB, CRA, DIVISA, Salvador's Municipal Health Secretariat, and contractors for the
waste management facilities in Salvador and Camacari indicate that although proper legislation, norms
and standards for medical waste collection and final disposal exist in Bahia, implementation of these
norms and standards in poor rural municipalities may be weak. Neither visits to rural municipalities were
made, nor a classification of municipalities with a distribution of health centers and population served was
obtained, but some concern remains as these municipalities do not have the technical capacity to design
and carry out proper waste management plans, including the proper management and final disposal of
medical wastes. As described below, municipalities participating in the Program will be responsible for
preparing Waste Management Action Plans, as part of the conditions to access funds.
With respect to environmental licensing, even though municipal sanitary landfills might have an
environmental operations license, neither hospital nor health posts visited have one. Meetings with the
Environmental Resources Center of Bahia (CRA), the State's environmental Directorate Office, indicated
that priority is given to projects from the private sector. However, CRA officials indicated a positive
attitude toward simplifying the provision of environmental operation licenses to micro and small health
15



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                               Environmental Assessment
posts, as required by law. CRA is also interested in providing technical assistance to SESAB in the
environmental assessment of mid to large hospital centers, with particular attention to technology
conversion (utilizing methane powered steamers instead of bunker operated in hospitals such as Hector
Santos in Salvador).
Conclusions from field assessment indicated that there are no major environmental issues associated with
the project. Environmental issues pertaining the proper management of medical waste and its final
disposition, classification of health services according to local environmental legislation and proper
monitoring of sub projects are clearly defined in State environmental and sanitary prevention legislation.
For a complementary assessment of the field visit report, please see annex 4.
4.2 Potential environmental impacts associated with the Project.
As shown in table 3, most of the potential environmental impacts associated with the project are
considered positive. As described in section 2, project components are aimed at increasing efficiency of
hospital care, reducing wasteful health care practices and better use of resources.
Potential negative environmental impacts are related to the construction, operation and maintenance of
health centers, especially in municipalities with limited resources to implement proper management and
final disposal of medical wastes. An environmental action plan for the Project will need to address these
impacts and to consider the design and implementation of primary health centers and municipal medical
waste management plans.
4.3 Project environmental classification.
Considering the scope of the project and the environmental impacts associated with each component, the
Bahia State Health System Reform Project should be considered as Environmental Category B. Negative
environmental impacts can be significantly attenuated with the incorporation of environmental criteria for
health centers construction, operation and monitoring within the Projects's Operations Manual.
16



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                                  Environmental Assessment
Table 3. Environmental impacts associated with the Bahia State Health System Reform Project.
Project component/activity              Possible environmental impacts.
Component 1. Support for micro regions
in the State of Bahia
A. Strengthening the administrative and  Positive. Better efficiency of hospital care will reduce wasteful
management capacity of micro-regional   healthcare practices; performance based contracting, accreditation and
Regulation Centers.                     periodic audits will ensure that proper sanitary and environmental
surveillance according to DIVISA standards are also observed.
Negative. Even though component does not have a direct impact on the
environment, the implementation of health services and the generation of
medical wastes as these health centers provide better services, might
have a direct connotation with environmental implications, since the final
disposition of medical wastes might have a negative impact on
surrounding natural resources, specially in poor municipalities.
B. Purchasing basic medium complexity   Not rated.
equipment for micro regions
C. Strengthening of public health functions  Positive. Public health strengthening activities at the micro regions will
at the micro-regional level             help assure that micro regions assume their epidemiological and
environmental surveillance functions.
D. Assistance with investment in        Positive. Promoting the rationale use of pharmaceuticals will help
equipment to support Ml level of medium  reduce the final disposal of unnecessary expired pharmaceuticals.
complexity health care services.
Component 2. Strengthening SESAB
core functions.
A. Information System, Monitoring and   Not rated.
Evaluation.
B. Policy development.                  Positive. Component will finance studies and guidelines aimed at
improving environmental management of medical wastes.
C. Strengthening the management capacity  Not rated.
in the Municipality of Salvador.
D. Implementation of a High Complexity  Positive. Improving efficiency of hospital care will reduce wasteful
State Center.                          health care practices and will help reduce the final disposal of
unnecessary expired pharmaceuticals.
Negative. Even though component does not have a direct impact on the
environment, the implementation of health services and the generation of
medical wastes as these health centers provide better services, might
have a direct connotation with environmental implications, since the final
disposition of medical wastes might have a negative impact on
surrounding natural resources, specially in poor municipalities.
Component 3. Support for Basic Health
A. Strengthening the Pactos de Atenci6n  Not rated.
Bisica.
B. Sub-projects for the expansion of the  Negative. Even though component does not have a direct impact on the
Family Health Program.                  environment, the implementation of health services and the generation of
medical wastes as these health centers provide better services, might
have a direct connotation with environmental implications, since the final
disposition of medical wastes might have a negative impact on
surrounding natural resources, specially in poor municipalities.
17



Bahia State Health System Refonn Project                            Environmental Assessment
5. Environmental Management Plan for the Project.
5.1 Environmental Management Plan scope.
In consultation with SESAB and CRA, environmental assessment mission agreed that even though the
objective of the Project is to assist in the implementation of the health sector reform, an environmental
action plan for the Project will address the need to design primary health centers and municipal medical
waste management plans. Actions agreed between the mission and SESAB Project counterpart team
include:
Implementation of existing local environmental assessment and licensing of health centers.
Resources from the project will assist SESAB and CRA define simplified procedures for
environmental licensing of micro and small centers, and the environmental assessment of medium
to large health centers. participating in the program. Procedures will be reflected in the Project's
Operation Manual.
Mandatory preparation of Medical Waste Plans in each health center of participating
municipalities, as required by Division de Vigilancia Sanitaria del Estado de Bahia.
Municipal technical assistance for the preparation of Solid Waste management plans, including
medical wastes, with emphasis in poor participating municipalities covering over 200 beds
equivalent.
Incentives to those municipios polo with proper solid management plans, where extra points will
be given when competing for the financing of subprojects.
Implementation of environmental criteria in the audit of health services, according to existing
guidelines in the Division de Vigilancia Sanitaria.
Implementation of local basic sanitation information, through the financing of information
material, according to local existing guidelines.
Implementation of environmental criteria during construction and supervision of infrastructure,
were needed/ where applicable.
The Environment Management Plan is perceived as a cross cutting element to the different components of
the Project, thus it is an integral part of each one of them. The environmental variable is incorporated
through two fundamental guidelines: (i) Technical Assistance Requirements and (ii) Investment for
Institutional Strengthening. The objective of the Project's EMP is to strengthen the efforts initiated by the
SESAB to improve the health status, including sanitary and environmental aspects, of the population in
the State of Bahia, in particular the poor and vulnerable groups. In addition, the Project's EMP will
strengthen the environmental management capacity of SESAB as well as the environmental management
capacities of participating center municipalities, providing adequate resources to reach adequate
environmental management in the implementation of solid waste management plans.
During the pre-appraisal mission, the Bank and SESAB teams discussed the main findings of the EAR and
agreed with the proposed EMP. In addition, during discussions between the environmental consultant and
the SESAB counterpart team it was agreed that the Project's Operations Manual and Project
Implementation Plan would include the Environmental Action Plan. No additional staff is required for the
monitoring of the plan. All actions will be the responsibility of SESAB.
Except the provision of municipal technical assistance for the preparation of solid waste management
plans, remaining actions are considered within the scope of the project's components. For the provision of
municipal assistance, it was agreed the project would reserve up to 10% of the cost for component 2 of the
Project. No additional studies are needed for the preparation of the project.
Detailed considerations for Implementation of environmental assessment and licensing of health centers
(Simplified Environmental License) are presented in annex 5. Detailed considerations for Implementation
18



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                                   Environmental Assessment
of environmental criteria in the audit of health services, according to existing guidelines in the Division de
Vigilancia Sanitaria are presented in annex 6.
Table 4. Environmental Management Plan.
Project component' activity     Proposed action/implementation schedule..              Cost (US$)
Component 1. Support for
micro regions in the State of
Bahia
Strengthening the administrative  Implementation of existing local environmental assessment  No additional
and management capacity of     and licensing of health centers (Simplified Environmental  costs. Cost will
micro-regional Regulation      License), see annex 5.                                  be included in
Centers.                       Mandatory preparation of Medical Waste Plans in each health  consulting
Strengthening of public health  center of participating municipalities, as required by Division  peroject
functions at the micro-regional  de Vigilancia Sanitaria del Estado de Bahia.           ponent.
level................. component.
level.                         Implementation of environmental criteria in the audit of health
Assistance with investment in  services, according to existing guidelines in the Division de
equipment to support Ml level of  Vigilancia Sanitaria. See annex 6.
medium complexity health care  Monitoring and evaluation of Waste Management Plans.
services
Component 2. Strengthening
SESAB core functions.
Policy development.            Municipal technical assistance for the preparation of Solid  No additional
Implementation of a High       Waste management plans, including medical wastes, with  costs associated
Complexity State Center.       emphasis in poor participating municipalities covering over  with the project.
200 beds equivalent.                                   Up to 10% of
project
component will
be reserved for
municipal
assistance for the
preparation of
solid waste
management
plans.
Component 3. Support for
Basic Health
Sub-projects for the expansion of  Implementation of environmental criteria during construction  No additional
the Family Health Program.      and supervision of infrastructure, were needed/ where  costs. Cost will
applicable. See annex 7.                               be included in
Incentives to municipios polo with proper solid management  consulting
plans, extra points will be given when competing for the  sproject
financing of subprojects.                              component.
Implementation of local basic sanitation information, through
the financing of information material, according to local
existing guidelines
5.2. EMP monitoring.
Environmental Management Plan implementation and monitoring will require close supervision,
particularly during the first two years of the Project. SESAB will include in the Project's Operation
19



Bahia State Health System Reforn Proiect                              Environmental Assessment
Manual detailed procedures and criteria according to the activities and scope of the EMP. Project
implementation unit will be responsible for reporting implementation of the EMP. Progress reports will
include:
* Progress in the execution of each one of the activities of technical assistance and investment
proposed in the plan.
* The impact indicators by component will be defined in function of the number of activities of each
component performed within the framework of this environment management plan. Number of
health centers with simplified environmental licenses at end of year 1, year to and year 3 plus
number of municipalities with solid waste management plans at end of the project should be
reported. These indicators will be applied on the evaluation phase, time at which real impact will
be identified, positive as well as negative, accomplished and ones not foreseen, to finally make the
necessary recommendations.
In addition, the proposed Implementation of environmental criteria in the audit of health services,
according to existing guidelines in the Division de Vigilancia Sanitaria ,on years 2 and 3 of the
Project, will reflect results from including the environmental criteria in the implementation of
health care services..
20



Bahia State Health System Reform Proiect                            Environmental Assessment
6. Bibliography
Bahia, Nova Legislacao Ambiental, CRA, 2001.
Coletanea de Legislacao Basica em Vigilancia Sanitaria, vol, 1, DIVISA, 1998.
Coletanea De Legislacao em saude do trabalhador e meio ambiente, SESAB, 2001.
Como Cuidar dele Lixo, Manual para Prefeituras de Cuydades de Pequeno e Medio Porte,
Secretaria de Infra Estrutura, SEINFRA, 2001.
Environmental Impact Assessment, L. Canter, 1977.
Estudo Ambiental do Projeto de Reorganizacao do Sistema de Saude Do Estado Da Bahia,
Secretaria de Saude Do Estado Da Bahia, Santana et al, 2000.
Estudos Ambientais, Projeto de Apoio a Consolidacao do Programa de Saude Da Familia No
Brasil, Ministerio da Sause, 2001.
Informacoes Gerais, Vigilancia Sanitaria e Ambiental, DIVISA, 2001
Libro de Consulta para Evaluacion Ambiental, Volumen I, Banco Mundial, 1992.
Libro de Consulta para Evaluacion Ambiental, Volumen II, Banco Mundial, 1992.
Licenciamiento Ambiental Passo a Passo no Estado da Bahia, Normas e Procedimientos, CRA,
2002.
Manual de Procedimientos Tecnicos em acoes basicas de vigilancia sanitaria, DIVISA, 1998.
Manual de Saneamiento, Ministerio de Saude, Fundacao Nacional de Saude, 1999.
Norma de Armazenamiento Externo de Conteineres de Residuos Solidos, LIMPURD, 2001.
Norma de Segregacao dos residuos de services de Saude da Cidade do Salvador, LIMPURB,
2000.
PAD, World Bank, version of march 16, 2001.
Recursos Hidricos: Legislacao basica do Estado da Bahia, Superintendencia de Recursos
Hidricos, 2001
Residuos Solidos Municipales, Guia para el Diseno, Construccion, Operacion de rellenos
sanitarios manuals, PAHO, 1991.
21



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                                                     Environmental Assessment
Annexes



Bahia State Health System Reform Project              Environmental Assessment
Annex 1.
(full document available on files)
A,  -
OCILCO OE EST U"O  AVANCD  DO ME '', AM81T
CIMA  CENTRO DE INFORMACOES DO MElO AMUIENTE
'.'''Tf'"/..""   A   H    IA
; -~-7Noova Legis1aiao
--Ambiental
Lei Estadual NO 7.799, de 07/02/2001
\Decreto Estadual NO 7.967,-de 05/06/2001
CENTROLDE RECURSOS A
CENTRO D E CURSOS AMIIENTAIS



Bahia State Health System Reform Proiect                      Environmental Assessment
Annex 2.
Normas e Diretrizes em Vigilancia Sanitaria
Aspectos Normativos e Diretrizes Legais
Tendo em vista que para o desenvolvimento das ag6es de vigilancia
sanitaria faz-se necessario o conhecimento amplo das normas e diretrizes
legais que, aliadas ao conhecimento tecnico-cientifico, instrumentalizam
as ag6es na busca da garantia da qualidade de servi9os e produtos,
listamnos a seguir as legislasoes especfficas ao traba,ho do tecnico de
Vigilancia Sanitaria, para execuao de suas atividades basicas:
Legislafaio Federal
  ConstituicJ o Federal de 1988
Titulo VIII - Da Ordem Social, Capitulo ii - Da Seguridade Social,
Seao 1I - Da Saude, Art. 196 a 200.
 Lei Federal N 8.080 de 19 de setembro de 1990
Disp6e sobre as condi,coes para a promog5o, protes3o e recupera3ao
da sa6de, a organizag5o e o funcionamento dos serviaos
correspondentes e d6 outras providencias.
* Lei Federal N 5.991 de 17 de dezembro de 1973
Dispoe sobre o controle sanitario do comercio de drogas
medicamentos insumos farmaceuticos e correlatos, e da outras
providencias.
* Lei Federal NO 6.360 de 23 de setembro de 1976
Dispoe sobre a vigilancia sanitaria a que ficam sujeitos as
medicamentos, as drogas, os insumos farmaceuticos e correlatos,
cosmeticos, saneantes e outros produtos, e dc outras providencias.
*  Lei Federal N 6.437 de 20 de agosto de 1977
Configura infrag6es a legislasao sanitaria federal, estabelece as
sangoes respectivas, e da outras providencias.
  Lei Federal NO 9.782 de 26 de janeiro de 1999
Define o Sistema Nacional de Vigilancia Sanitaria, cria a Agencia
Nacional de Vigilancia Sanitaria, e da outras providencias.
08
3



Bahia State Health System Reform Pro-ect                      Environmental Assessment
* Lei Federal N 7.802 de 11 de julho de 1989
Disp6e sobre a pesquisa,a experimentarao, a produg5o, a embalagem
e rotulagem, o transporte, o armazenamento, a comercializag5o, a
propaganda comercial, a utiliza,co, a importag5o, a exportag5o, o
destino final dos residuos e embalagens, o registro, a classificag5o, o
controle, a inspeg5o e a fiscalizag5o de agrot6xicos, seus componentes
e afins. e da outras providencias .
* Decreto-Lei NO 986 de 21 de outubro de 1969
lnstitui normas basicas sobre alimentos.
* Decreto Federal NO 74.170 de 10 de junho de 1974
Regulamenta a Lei n 5.991 de 17 de dezembro de 1973 que dispoe
sobre o controle sanitario do comercio de drogas medicamentos
insumos farmaceutico e correlatos.
* Decreto Federal NO 77.052 de 19 de janeiro de 1976
Disp6e sobre a fiscalizaiao -sanitaria das condicoes de exercicio
de profiss6es e ocupag6es t6cnicas e auxiliares relacionadas
diretamente com a saude.
* Decreto Federal NO 79.094 de 5 de janeiro de 1977
Regulamenta a Lei n 6.360 de 23 de setembro de 1976 que
submete ao sistema de vigilancia sanitaria os medicamentos insumos
farmaceuticos drogas correlatos cosmeticos produtos de higiene
saneantes e outros.
* Decreto Federal NO 98.816 de 11 de janeiro de 1989
Regulamenta a Lei n 7.802 de 11 de junho de 1989
PORTARIAS:
* Portaria Federal MS NO 1.565 de 26 de agosto de 1994
Define o Sistema Nacional de Vigilancia Sanitaria e sua abrangencia,
esclarece a competencia das tres esferas de governo e estabelece as
bases para a descentralizag5o da execugao de servi9os e asoes de
vigilancia em saude no ambito do Sistema Uruico de Saude.
* Portaria Federal MS N0 1469 de 29 de dezembro de 2000
Estabelece os procedimentos e responsabilidades relativos ao controle
e vigilincia da qualidade da agua para consumo humano e seu padrao
de potabilidade, e da outras providencias.
* Portaria Federal MS/SNAS N 224 de 29 de janeiro de 1992
Estabelece diretrizes e normas de atendimento do SUS.
09
4



Bahia State Health System Reform Proiect                     Environmental Assessment
 Portaria Federal MS No 1.428 de 26 de novembro de 1993
Aprova o Regulamento T6cnico para Inspeao Sanitaria de Alimentos.
* Portaria Federal N 1.884/GM de 11 de novembro de 1994
Estabelece normas destinadas ao exame e aprovaq5o dos Projetos
Fisicos de Estabelecimentos Assistenciais de Saude
(em processo de revisao).
* Portaria Federal MA N 304 de 26 de abril de 1996
Estabelece normas para a distribui9ao e comercializacao de
carnes.
* Portaria Federal MS/SVS N 326 de 30 de julho de 1997
Aprova o Regulamento T6cnico:Condiq5es
Higienico-Santarias de Boas Praticas de Fabricaao para
Estabelecimentos Produtores I Industrializadores de Alimentos.
* Portaria Federal MS/SVS N0 344 de 12 de maio de 1998
Aprova o Regulamento tecnico sobre substancias e
medicamentos sujeitos a controle especiais
* Portaria Federal NO 2.616 de 12 de maio de 1998
Estabelece normas para prevenco e o contwole das
infec,c6es hospitalares
* Resolu9ao CNNPA N 33/76
Fixa normas gerais de higiene para assegurar as condib6es
de pureza necessarias aos alimentos destinados ao
consumo humano.
 Resolur,co CONAMA N0 20 de 18 de junho de 1986
Estabelece classificaao das aguas doces, salobras e
salinas para todo o Territorio Nacional.
* Resolurao CONAMA NO 05 de 05 de agosto de 1993
Define normas minimas para tratamento de residuos
s6lidos oriundos de serviros de saude, portos.e aeroportos,
bem como a necessidade de estender tais exigencias aos
terminais ferroviarios e rodoviarios.
* Norma Operacional Basica do Sistema Unico de Saude -
NOB/SUS-01/96
Norma Operacional de Assistencia a Saude NOAS/SUS-01/2001
Outras Resoluroes especificas.
10
5



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                      Environmental Assessment
LegislaVao Estadual
* Lei Estadual 3.982 de 29 de dezembro de 1981
Disp6e sobre o Subsistema de Saude do Estado da Bahia,
anremln  I leisilaio hAQirn cznhre nmmon.o nrnt*r.An P
recuperasao da saude e da outras providencias.
* Lei Estadual N 4.892 de 13 de abril de 1989
Torna obrigatoria a esteriliza95o de utensilios utilizados em
saloes de cabeleireiros e estabelecimentos cong6neres e da
outras providencias.
* Lei Estadual NO 5.782 de 11 de abril de 1990
Prcibe o funcionamento de Academias de Ginastica no Estado
serm autorizaqao da Secretaria da Educac5o do Estado da Bahia
e da autras providencias.
* Let Estadual N 7.797 de 07 de fevereiro de 2001
Institui a Politica Estadual de Administrarao dos Recursos Ambientais
e d6 outras providencias.
* Lei Estadual N 6.455 de 25 de janeiro de 1993
Disp6e sobre o controle da produeo, da comercializa,cao, do uso. do
consumo, do transporte e armazenamento de agrot6xicos, seus
componentes e afins no territorio do Estado da Bahia e da outras
providencias.
* Decreto Estadual NO 29.414 de 05 de janeiro de 1983
Regulamenta a Lei n. 3.982, de 29 de dezembro de 1981 que
dispoe sobre o Subsistema de Saude do Estado da Bahia, aprova
a legisla5o basica sobre promooo, protec,ao e recuperaao da
saude e da outras providencias.
 Portaria Estadual NO 4.420/90 de 12 de julho de 1990
Estabelece as condig6es necessarias para o funcionamento
de Academias de Ginastica ou similares.
* Portaria Estadual 2.101/90
Estabelece Normas de Vigilancia Sanitaria (disp6e sobre os
estabelecimentos de sa6de).
* Portaria Estadual NO 3.894 de 03 de dezembro de 1992
Regulamenta a locaiizaao, a utiiza,ao e o funcionamento dos
cemiterios.
11
6



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                      Environmental Assessment
* Resolug5o N 028/2001 da Comissao Intergestores Bipartite -
CIB/Ba. Aprova equipe minima municipal de Vigilancia Sanit6ria
e elenco minimo de ag6es da Vigilancia Sanitaria, para habilitagao
dos Municipios na Gestao Plena da Ateng5o Basica Ampliada
GPABA e Gestao Plena do Sistema Municipal - GPSM
DeCreto NO 7.7;7 de 14An9/2nnn
Aprova o Regulamento Sanitario de Estabelecimentos Promotores de
Festas e Eventos Similares, realizados inclusive em estruturas
provis6rias, e por Entidades Carnavalescas.
* Decreto Estadual NO 7.967 de 05 de junho de 2001
Aprova o regulamento da Lei N7.799 de 07 de fevereiro de 2001
que instituiu a Politica Estadual de Administrag5o de Recursos
Ambientais e da outras providencias.
* Decreto Estadual NO 6,033 de 06 dezembro de 1996
Aprova o regulamento da Lei Eatdual N06.455 de 25 de janeiro de 1993.
* Instrug5o Normativa n 01/2000 Referente ao Decreto 7.757 de
14/02/2000.
* Outras legislag5es especificas.
LegislaViio Municipal
* Codigo de Postura dos Municipios.
12



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                                                      Environmental Assessment
Annex 3.
(please see anexo3.pdf file)
8



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                                    Environmental Assessment
Annex 4
Nueva Alianza, Camacari, Primary Health Center.
Small Urban Primary Health Center. 400 patients per day (170 regular, 230 emergency care), equivalent to 40
beds per day. Services include medical attention, minor surgeries, nebulizaciones, and emergency care. Proper
separation, classification and handling of medical wastes at the health post. Limited sanitary prevention
information to patients, continuous su ervision from Division de Vigilancia Sanitaria Municipal
~~ .  -r  _  t  .   .   .                           .' 
IL~~~~~~~~~~~.
Camacari Hospital,
Medium range, urban. Capacity for 176 beds, actual capacity 124. Proper separation, classification, and handling
of medical wastes at the hospital. Limited sanitary prevention information to patients, continuous supervision
from Division de Vigilancia Sanitaria Municipal,
^ ~~~~~~~~~~id
9



Bahia State Health System Reform Proiect                                              Environmental Assessment
Camacari Sanitary Landfill facilities, operated by Limpeca.
*       20 Hectares facility.
*       95% Municipal; 5% private.
*       Operated by private sector.
*       Collects medical wastes from                   _         _
health posts and from the
Camacari Hospital.
*       Medical wastes incinerated in
a three-chamber bunker operated         m                                                       -
incinerator.                                                          r      1  X 
*      Capacity to manage expected
wastes for the next 20 years.
L~~~1
..-
Hector Santos Hospital, Salvador regional micro region hospital.
426 beds capacity, 30,000 m2 facility, 11 surgery rooms, 500-600 thousand population coverage, excellent medical waste
separation, classification, and handling., excellent community participation preventing the improper collection of syringes and
contact with medical wastes from favelas surrounding the hospital facilities.
F,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
p-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
10



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                                                  Environmental Assessment
I~~~~~~~~
11



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                                                      Environmental Assessment
Annex 5.
(please see anexo5.pdf file)
4
12



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                                                      Environmental Assessment
Annex 6.
Please see anexo6.pdf file)
13



Bahia State Health System Reforn Proiect                               Environmental Assessment
Annex 7.
Lineamientos ambi6ntales de construcci6n y Supervisi6n de Obras civiles para minimizaci6n de
Impactos Ambientales durante la construcci6n y Rehabifitaci6n de Hospitales
1. INTRODUCCION
Las especificaciones de construcci6n a continuaci6n descritas pretenden complementar las actividades de
mitigaci6n 0 prevenci6n de impactos ambientales producto de la construcci6n de los centros hospitalarios
a ser financiados con recursos provenientes del Prestamo del Banco Mundial. Estas especificaciones
forman parte integrante de log contratos de construcci6n de obras civiles que celebre la SESAB y los
contratistas para la ejecuci6n de obras, y por lo tanto deberan ser debidamente incluidos en las bases de
licitaci6n respectivas.
2. ASPECTOS GENERALES DE PROTECCION AMBIENTAL
2.1 Generales
El objetivo de la aplicaci6n de las especificaciones ambientales durante la construcci6n de log centros
hospitalarios financiados es el de prevenir cambios ambientales significativos negativos a
consecuencia de la construcci6n de cada sub proyecto.
El Contratista y su personal deberan evitar introducir modificaciones innecesarias en habitat, parques,
areas de recreo, 0 areas urbanas aledanias al sitio donde se ubicara el sub proyecto. El Supervisor de la
obra debera dar fe de la aplicaci6n satisfactoria de estas especificaciones.
2.2 Monitoreo Ambiental de las obras civiles
La construcci6n de las obras civiles definidas en las bases de licitaci6n debera ser ejecutada acorde
con las especificaciones de calidad de obra y especificaciones ambientales a satisfacci6n de la SESAB
y del RA quienes tendran acceso libre para inspecci6n durante la ejecucion de las obras.
2.3 Responsabilidad del Contratista
1. El Contratista esta obligado a construir las obras civiles acordes con los planos de disen-o y
especificaciones tecnicas y ambientales elaboradas par el MSP AS y de acuerdo con las instrucciones
que el Supervisor le indiquen durante la construcci6n de las obras. En caso que el Contratista ejecute,
sin el consentimiento de la supervisi6n 0 de la Unidad de Seguimiento durante la Implementaci6n de
las modificaciones al disefno original a las obras adicionales que surjan durante la construcci6n, el
Contratista debera retirar del sitio de la obra 10 que haya sido construido y no aprobado, sin lugar a
reclamo 0 compensaci6n par costa 0 tiempo en relaci6n con el contrato de servicios.
2. Cuando log trabajos sean realizados en zonas de peligro potencial para los operarios 0 los vecinos
afectados por la construcci6n de las obras, como es el caso de zonas de deslizamiento, derrumbe,
remoci6n de escombros, 0 areas sensibles, el Contratista debera adoptar las medidas necesarias para la
seguridad de sus operarios y de log afectados, incluyendo la comunicaci6n y rotulaci6n necesaria.
3. Durante la epoca de inviemo, el Contratista debera evitar que la erosi6n de suelo producto de la
escorrentia de aguas Iluvias afecte el area de influencia de sus Fuentes de trabajo, asi mismo, debera
dejar bien compactados, a satisfacci6n del Supervisor, los rellenos de material ejecutados, asi como la
colocaci6n de obras que reduzcan al maximo la erosi6n de log suelos, taludes de corte 0 relleno.
4. Mientras la SESAB no reciba de forma definitiva las obras realizadas por el Contratista, este sera
responsable de proveer y disponer de las medidas de seguridad necesarias para prevenir 0 contrarrestar
los dafios que las Iluvias, viento, 0 polvo puedan ocasionar a la obra 0 a los equipos instalados,
proveyendo inclusive de la vigilancia necesaria mientras dure el proceso de recepci6n.
5. En relaci6n con la protecci6n de la propiedad privada y del Estado, el Contratista sera responsable
de adoptar las medidas necesarias para prevenir y evitar cualquier dafio a la propiedad privada,
publica, incluyendo servicios, edificaciones, cercados, senderos, arboledas ubicados dentro 0 cerca del
14



Bahia State Health System Reform Project                               Environmental Assessment
sitio de construcci6n de las obras. El Contratista sera responsable de mantener informado a log vecinos
afectados sobre log posibles danios que se podrian ocasionar e informal sobre las medidas que adopte
para la prevenci6n de estos.
6. Sera responsabilidad el Contratista la reparaci6n del cualquier dafno atribuible a la realizaci6n de las
obras 0 consecuencia de estas.
2.4 Seguridad Y Sefnalizaci6n
1. Durante la etapa de construcci6n, el Contratista debera !las medidas y precauciones necesarias par la
circulaci6n de equipos, maquinaria, vebiculos y peatones en la zona del proyecto, disponiendo de
sefializaci6n adecuada diurna y nocturna y cuando sea necesario cerrar temporalmente el trafico.
2.5 Transporte de Materiales
1. El transporte de materiales para la obra debera ser programado y realizado de tal manera que se
eviten danios a los caminos, calles y carreteras publicas y privadas, a los servicios publicos, a las
construcciones, cultivos 0 a cualquier otro tipo de bien publico 0 privado. Las costas de transporte par
este concepto deberan estar incluidas en log respectivos precios unitarios.
2. El transporte de materiales de construcci6n, escombros, restos de vegetaci6n y otros, se debera
realizar en vehiculos provistos de toldo8, irrigando el material de ser necesario y apropiado. El
Contratista sera responsab 1 e de 1 a remoci6n de restos de concreto, rocas, restos de vegetaci6n sin
derecho a pago adicional pues el precio de 1 a actividad debera estar incluido en el valor unitario de la
actividad.
3. ESPECIFICACIONES Ambi6ntales
3.1 Control de la contaminaci6n de cuerpos receptores de agua.
1. El Contratista debera proteger los escurrimientos superficiales, subterraneos 0 cualquier cuerpo
receptor de agua que se encuentre dentro del area de influencia de la obra contra derrames accidentales
de aceites, carburantes 0 del transporte de material de construcci6n dentro de las obras. En caso de
ocurrir accidental 0 premeditadamente, el Contratista debera informar a la Supervisi6n y debera tomar
las medidas necesarias para contrarrestar la contaminaci6n ocasionada.
2. El Contratista debera colocar sedimentadores de aguas de lavado de agregados y del fraguado del
concreto, trampas de aceite y grasas, 0 cualquier otro tipo de dispositivo apropiado aguas abajo de las
fuentes de producci6n de agua, recolectandolas antes de sean vertidas en los cuerpos receptores
finales.
3. El Contratista no podra descargar lodos 0 materiales de remoci6n de escombros en cuerpos
receptores de agua; inicialmente se podran descargar este tipo de materiales en areas secas, no
inundables.
4. El usa de equipo y maquinaria encauces naturales debera ser aprobada par la Supervisi6n y par la
Alcaldia respectiva.
5. E l Contratista debera mantener resguardados de forma segura cualquier elemento t6xico eliminando
la posibilidad de que estos puedan interceptar 0 ser conducidos a !as redes naturales de drenaje
superficial 0 sub terraneo.
6. EI Contratista no podra verter combustibles 0 lubricantes ni en el suelo ni en log cursos de agua
existentes.
7. EI precio unitario acordado incluira las medidas necesarias definidas, par lo tanto no seran medidos
0 pagado durante la construcci6n de lasas obras.
3.2 Control de la contaminaci6n por ruido
15



Bahia State Health System Reforn Project                              Environmental Assessment
1. El contratista sera responsable de mantener niveles permisibles no mayores a los 8 db (lo que un
oido
humano soporta y permite expresarse sin alzar la voz), incorporando en su maquinaria y equipo
silenciadores de escape, espacios cerrados para el mantenimiento de la maquinaria, 0 dispositivos de
alarma 0 bocinas de sus vehiculos acordes con el nivel especificado.
2. El precio unitario acordado incluira las medidas necesarias definidas, par 10 tanto no seran medidos
0 pagado durante la construcci6n de !as obras.
3.3 Control de la contaminaci6n del aire
I. El Contratista sera responsable de controlar la calidad de las emanaciones, olores y humos
relacionados con su maquinaria y equipo, asi como con el polvo, quema, y usa de productos quimicos
t6xicos y volatiles. Los operadores deberan mantener !as tapaderas de los contenedores de
combustibles, quimicos, pinturas, cerrados, asi mismo mantenerlos en zonas aisladas.
2. asi mismo, el Contratista sera responsable del mantenimiento adecuado de su maquinaria a base de
carburantes a fin de controlar la emanaci6n de gases, olores 0 humos.
3. El Contratista no podra quemar a cielo abierto ningun tipo de desperdicios, arboles 0 arbustos,
Ilantas, cauchos, plisticos 0 cualquier otro producto peligroso a la salud humana. Estos deberan ser
depositados en el relleno sanitaria identificado durante la etapa del disenio y autorizado debidamente
par el Supervisor y la Alcaldia correspondiente.
4. Para evitar la generaci6n de polvo, el Contratista debera rociar agua sobre los suelos superficiales
expuestos al trafico vehicular 0 peatonal, evitando la generaci6n de charcas 0 lodos. asi mismo, de ser
necesario, debera colocar lonas para mantener cubiertos los materiales de construcci6n.
5. El precio unitario acordado incluira las medidas n<<;necesarias definidas, por lo tanto no seran
medidos 0 pagado durante la construcci6n de !as obras.
3.4 Salud Ocupacional e higiene laboral
I. El Contratista debera adoptar las medidas de seguridad ocupacional necesarias en cada uno de sus
frentes de trabajo, dando a su personal accesorios necesarios como cascos protectores, mascarillas de
polvo, botas de goma con punta de acero, entre otros.
2. Cuando sean cinco 0 mas trabajadores, el Contratista debera proveer de instalaciones sanitarias
adecuadas para disposici6n de excretas las cuales podrAn ser transVortables. Si sera necesario construir
una rosa septica, el Contratista solicitara al Supervisor la aprobacion del sitio, responsabilizando el
contratista de rellenar la rosa una vez termine la obra y de restituir !as condiciones originales del sitio
seleccionado.
3.5 Remoci6n y reposici6n de pavimentos
1. El Contratista sera responsable de depositar el pavimento removido (asfalto, empedrado, concreto
hidraulico) en sitios alejados a las vias y en lugares seleccionados por el Supervisor. El pavimento
restituido debera contar con igual 0 superior calidad que el anterior.
3.6 Botaderos
2. El Contratista debera asegurarse que el area utilizada disponga de un drenaje adecuado que impida
la erosi6n de suelos. Antes de iniciar los trabajos de disposici6n de materiales, el contratista debera
retirar basuras depositadas en el sitio asi como construir los canales de drenaje en los sitios necesarios
que el Supervisor identifique.
16



