                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001529



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-71820)



                                       ON A

                                  LOAN/CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 30 MILLION

             TO THE STATE OF BAHIA WITH THE GUARANTEE OF

                    THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                      FOR A

                  BAHIA HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM PROJECT

                       IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE

             OF THE BAHIA HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM PROGRAM




                                   May 28, 2010




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective 05/28/2010)

                         Currency Unit = Real (R$)
                          R$ 1.00 = US$ 0.5512
                          US$ 1.00 = R$ 1.8143

                                  FISCAL YEAR


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL       Adaptable Program Loan

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy

CEFARBA   State basic pharmaceutical supplier (Central de Abastecimiento Farmaceutico
          do Estado)

CGMR      Micro Regional Management Council (Colegiados de Gestão Microrregional)

COLICI    Central Procurement Unit (Coordenação de Licitações da Secretaria da Saúde)

DALYs     Disability Adjusted Life Years

DIRES     Regional Offices of SESAB (Diretorias Regionais da Saúde)

DIVISA    Sanitary Surveillance Division (Divisão de Vigilância Sanitária)

EMP       Environmental Management Plan

FESBA     State Health Fund (Fundo Estadual de Saúde)

FESF      Family Health State Foundation (fundacao Estatal Saude da Familia)

FM        Financial Management

FMR       Financial Management Report

GDP       Gross Domestic Product

ICR       Implementation Completion and result Report

IDH       Human Development Index (Indice de Desenvolvimento Humano)

IMR       Infant Mortality Rate
IPDF     Indigenous People Development Framework

ISR      Implementation Status and Result Report

M1       First Level of Medium Complexity Healthcare

MDGs     Millennium Development Goals

MMR      Maternal Mortality Rate

MOH      Ministry of Health

MTR      Mid-Term Review

M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation

NGOs     Non-Governmental Organizations

NOAS     Operational Regulations for Health Care (Norma Operacional de Assistência
         de Saúde)

NOB      Basic Operational Regulations (Norma Operacional Básica)

OED      Operations Evaluation Department

PAB      Basic Package of Services (Piso Assistencial Básico)

PAB-A    Expanded PAB (PAB-ampliado/Piso Assistencial Básico Ampliado)

PAC      Community Agents Program (Programa de Atenção Comunitária)

PACTOS   Basic Health Agreements (Pactos de Atenção Básica)

PCU      Project Coordination Unit

PDI      Project Development Indicators

PDO      Project Development Objectives

PDR      Regional Director Plan (Plano Director de Regionalizacao)

PMR      Project Management Report

PPI      Intergovernmental Budget Programming Agreement (Programação Pactuada e
         Integrada)

PSF      Family Health Program (Programa de Saúde da Familia)

RMA      Resource Management

RESME    Relacao Estatual de Medicamentos
SEFAZ    Secretariat of Finance (Secretaria da Fazenda)

SESAB    Secretariat of Health (Secretaria de Saúde da Bahia)

SIGAF    System for procurement and management of pharmaceuticals (Sistema
         Integrado de Gerenciamento da Assistencia Farmaceutica)

SOT      Statement of Transfer

SUCAB    Superintendence of Administrative Civil Works (Superintendência de Controle
         de Obras de Administração da Bahia)

SURAPS   Superintendence in Charge of Basic Care (Superintendência de Promoção e
         Regulação da Saúde)

SUS      Unified Health System (Sistema Único de Saúde)

SWAPs    Sector-Wide Approaches

TA       Technical Assistance

TB       Tuberculosis

TCEBA    Accounting Tribunal for the State of Bahia (Tribunal de Contas do Estado da
         Bahia)

TORs     Term of References

UGP      Project Coordination Unit (Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projeto)




                         Vice President: Pamela Cox
                    Country Director: Makhtar Diop
                        Sector Manager: Keith Hansen
                   ICR Team Leader: Amparo Gordillo
                 Primary ICR Author: Suzana Abbott
                                                       BRAZIL

                      BAHIA HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM PROJECT
                          IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE
                  OF THE BAHIA HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM PROGRAM




                                                    CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................. 10
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 21
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 38
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 39
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 43
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 45
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 46
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 48
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 59
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 59
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 62
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 63
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 64
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 81
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 82
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Bahia Health System
Country:                Brazil                  Project Name:
                                                                          Reform Project
Project ID:             P054119                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-71820
ICR Date:               05/31/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:                 BAHIA STATE
Original Total
                        USD 30.0M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 30.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 30.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Secretaria da Saude
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/21/1999     Effectiveness:          11/10/2003           11/10/2003
Appraisal:            01/27/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/12/2003     Mid-term Review:        05/30/2006           05/30/2006
                                     Closing:                09/30/2007           08/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     35                  35
Health                                                                30                  30
Sub-national government administration                                35                  35


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Child health                                                          34                  34
Health system performance                                             33                  33
Rural services and infrastructure                                     33                  33

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Alexandre V. Abrantes                Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager:            Keith E. Hansen                      Evangeline Javier
Project Team Leader:       Fernando Lavadenz                    Daniel Cotlear
ICR Team Leader:           Amparo Elena Gordillo-Tobar
ICR Primary Author:        Suzana Nagele de Campos Abbott


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objectives of the Bahia Health System Reform Project are to implement
the national policy of health care decentralization seeking to: (i) improve access of the
poor to Basic Health Care, as measured by 10 Performance Indicators that measure the
coverage and quality of the health interventions with the greatest influence over child
mortality, maternal mortality, and the incidence of diseases prevalent among the poor; (ii)
reduce inequities in the allocation of publicly funded health care services, as measured by


                                               ii
differentials between per-capita regional budgets; and (iii) improve the efficiency and
quality in the use of public resources, as measured by the implementation of regulation
systems mandated by national policies.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from          Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target       Completion or
                                               documents)           Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Hospital admissions due to diarrheal infections (Children under 5 years of age)
Value
quantitative or   21%                       18%                                 25%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2001                09/30/2007                            12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Admissions due to respiratory infections for children<5 years
Value
quantitative or   6.8 per 1,000             5.8 per 1,000                       12.8 per 1,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2001                 09/30/2007                             12/30/2008
                  The large increase in the State's rate for this target in 2008 is the result of a
Comments
                  change in the Federal Ministry of Health's definition of respiratory illnesses,
(incl. %
                  which resulted in the addition of 9 more classifications being incorporated in the
achievement)
                  definition
Indicator 3 :     DPT/tetravalent immunization coverage -- children < 1 year
Value
quantitative or   83%                       90%                                 94%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2001                09/30/2007                            12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Complete prenatal care attendance/ number of births
Value
                                                                                94%
quantitative or   65%                       70%
                                                                                (SINAC 84%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2001                09/30/2007                            12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Confirmed cases of neonatal tetanus


                                                  iii
Value
quantitative or   5                         0                                  1
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2001                09/30/2007                         12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Percent of underweight children
Value
quantitative or   7.3%                      6.5%                               8.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2001                  09/30/2007                        12/30/2008
Comments          This indicator was excluded from the final evaluation due to the problems at the
(incl. %          design of the indicator and the impossibility to measure a real change
achievement)      attributable to the project
Indicator 7 :     Percent of new TB cases cured
Value
quantitative or   68%                       85%                                51%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2001                  09/30/2007                     12/30/2008
Comments          O Sistema de Informação de Agravos de Notificação (SINAN) reported cured
(incl. %          rates of up to 72% in 2005 and 2006. The lower rate happens with the
achievement)      installation of the new version of SINAN in 2007
Indicator 8 :     Detection rate of leprosy cases
Value
quantitative or   1.3 per 10,000            1 per 10,000                       1.8 per 10,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2001                09/30/2007                         12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Hospitalization rate of Ketoacidosis and diabetic coma
Value
quantitative or   0.7 per 10,000            0.3 per 10,000                     0.6 per 10,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2001                09/30/2007                         12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    Population covered by the family health program
Value
quantitative or   11%                       35%                                51%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2001                09/30/2007                         12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                  iv
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                approval                         Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
                The concentration of the state's public health expenditures in Salvador is reduced
Indicator 1 :
                from 40% to 35%
Value
(quantitative   40%                        35%                             41%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                    09/30/2007                     12/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        The State implemented referral systems where costs were assumed by Salvador
achievement)
                Salvador municipality has received support from Bahia's Government, to become
Indicator 2 :
                accredited for Gestao plena.
Value
(quantitative   0                          1 (100%)                        1 (100%)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                    09/30/2007                     12/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        This indicator was reached in 2007
achievement)
                Regulation systems has been implemented in 5 Micro-regions (management,
Indicator 3 :
                audits, and quality accreditation)
Value
(quantitative   0                          5 (100%)                        5(100%)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                    09/30/2007                     12/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : A Regulation Center for high complexity interventions has been established.
Value
(quantitative   0                          1 (100%)                        >1 (100%)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                    09/30/2007                     12/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Number of hospitals under 50 beds managed by SESAB is reduced
Value
(quantitative   23                         10                              >10 100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/29/2001                    09/30/2007                     12/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %



                                                v
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
        Date ISR
No.                          DO                              IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1    11/10/2003        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    06/09/2004        Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    1.33
  3    09/23/2004        Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    1.33
                                                        Moderately
  4    04/26/2005        Satisfactory                                                  2.75
                                                      Unsatisfactory
  5    06/24/2005       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory             3.52
  6    12/29/2005   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             7.08
  7    02/08/2006   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             7.48
  8    12/27/2006   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            13.27
  9    06/13/2007   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            15.44
 10    12/14/2007   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            17.45
 11    06/26/2008       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   18.78
 12    12/29/2008       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   21.96
 13    06/23/2009       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   24.06
 14    12/29/2009       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   29.43


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal


While Bahia (and more generally, Brazil) had obtained significant improvements in the
health status of the population in the decade preceding appraisal, key indicators such as
infant mortality, maternal mortality and the incidence of diseases typical of the poor
remained high. Brazil had a complex and sophisticated health sector, involving the
federal, state and municipal government, designed to respond to the basic health care
demands of its population, and to higher level demands typical of a middle income
country.


Federal Government's Health Strategy. In order to respond to the health care needs of its
population, the Federal Government had introduced progressively several reforms to
improve the country's public health care. In an effort to improve access and equity, the
1988 Constitution had proclaimed a universal right to health care, unified the health
services of the Social Security System with those of the Ministry of Health (creating the
Sistema Único de Saúde or SUS), and emphasized a role for municipalities in the
management of health care. These principles were implemented through legislation and
regulations--Normas Operacionais Basicas, or NOBs---issued in the 1990s.


The NOBs municipalized Basic Care with the introduction of PAB (Piso Assistencial
Básico), a basic package of services that municipalities were required to provide their
populations, financed by the federal government through a fixed "capitation" payment.
To qualify for these transfers, municipalities were required to qualify by meeting criteria
that included signing a Pacto de Atenção Básica (Basic Health Care Agreement), with
annual targets for the coverage of Basic Care programs in the municipality. The Pacto is
the main instrument of accountability to assess how municipalities are performing their
duty of providing Basic Care to their populations. The NOBs also provided for granting
qualifying municipalities with Gestão Plena do Sistema Municipal ("full management
authority"), a status that would entitle the municipality to receive block transfers directly
from the federal government to finance all levels of care for their population (i.e., they
would no longer receive their transfers through the state government). However, there
were growing concerns, at the time, that decentralizing Complex Care to the municipal
level was creating inefficiencies due to: (i) a loss of the economies of scale that
characterize the production of most complex medical services; (ii) a reduction in the size
of the risk-pool used to finance Complex Care; and (iii) a large increase in transaction
costs associated with the need to replicate administrative functions in all municipalities.




                                             1
Building on the strengths of an earlier program, the Federal Government introduced the
Programa de Saúde da Família (PSF, or Family Health Program) in 1994 to develop
high quality primary care services that served vulnerable populations in a proactive
manner. PSF organized community agents into teams (general practice or family health
physician, nurses, and dentist) that were assigned the responsibility of providing care to a
pre-defined set of families. Nationally, the PSF covered nearly one-fourth of the
population.


The Federal Government in 2001 issued its Norma Operacional de Assistência de Saúde-
--NOAS, to promote greater equity and access to all levels of health care. The NOAS
builds upon the NOBs by expanding the use of "capitation" payments to cover a wider
package of services and by completing the transfer of management of federal funds to
micro-regions. The municipalities for Basic Care and multi-municipal health micro-
regions for Medium Complexity Care were to be "fund-holders" for their populations.
The main features of the NOAS were that it: (i) mandated an expansion in the basic
package (the PAB-ampliado, or PAB-A) covering control of tuberculosis (TB),
hypertension, diabetes, child health services, maternal and dental care, plus a list of
specific diagnostic and treatment services); (ii) created micro-regions and mandated the
use of transparent systems for the distribution of federal resources for Complex Care---it
required states to divide their territories into multi-municipal health micro-regions and
allocate federal funds for Complex Care to these micro-regions using a participatory
process (Programação Pactuada e Integrada, PPI or Intergovernmental Budget
Programming); (iii) established more transparent systems to manage care at the local
level based on the use of networks, and required micro-regions to implement
standardized management tools (Centrais de Regulação) to improve the regulation of
Medium Complexity Care; and (iv) made the states responsible for monitoring and
evaluating the performance of municipalities in the implementation of key health
programs, inter alia, for ensuring municipalities' compliance with the Basic Care targets
set by the Pactos de Atenção Básica.


Health Care in Bahia. The State of Bahia had achieved very significant improvements
in health outcomes during the 1990s, with the infant mortality rate improving by 20%
from 1992 to 1998. Still, this progress was slower in Bahia than for the country as a
whole, were infant mortality had improved by 26% during the same period. Most of
Bahia's basic indicators were poor; the state needed to continue strengthening primary
care for its population.


The Pactos de Atenção Básica and new health care delivery models like the PSF and, at
the state level, the Assistência Farmaceutica Basica (Basic Pharmaceuticals Program)
were improving, albeit slowly, Basic Care in Bahia. By 2000, 412 municipalities (out of
417) had signed Pactos. An evaluation had revealed that there was a high degree of
success for the surveillance indicators, but there were low degrees of success for the


                                             2
indicators measuring outcomes and those measuring coverage of priority health programs
(fewer than 40% of municipalities reached their targets in these categories). Half of
Bahia's municipalities could not reach even 50% of their targets. Faced with similar
problems in other states, the federal government was looking for ways to improve the
way the Pactos worked, by improving the process of negotiating and planning targets,
and by more effectively linking targets with the use of available resources. The PSF
program in Bahia covered only about 11% of the population, and implementation
progress varied by municipal size and region in the state.
Most PSF teams were in small municipalities, but because there were so many small
municipalities, only 20% of them had jointed the PSF program. Most PSF teams were
located in the better developed and more accessible regions, with significantly fewer
teams in municipalities located in the poorer and less accessible interior. The lack of
basic pharmaceuticals at the local level, internationally a major weakness of Basic Care,
was being addressed by the Basic Pharmaceuticals Program (co-financed by the federal
government and the state) which transferred a per capita amount to municipalities
designed to provide a basic set of drugs for their population. While this program had
improved the availability of pharmaceuticals, there existed duplication between several
sources of drugs, inefficiency in the purchasing process and other constraints in the
distribution system. Bahia had passed legislation in 2002 that allowed the use of E-
procurement for pharmaceuticals to overcome the trade-off between higher prices due to
decentralized, municipal procurement and lack of opportune response resulting from state
procurement.


Bahia also faced significant institutional capacity challenges to implementing the NOAS.
At the state level, NOAS required a redefinition of the state government's role from one
of manager of federal funds and provider of services through state hospitals to one of
policy maker and overseer of quality. For this, the state needed to improve the quality of
data at its disposal, and its capacity to analyze this data and develop policy. The NOAS
attempted to correct inefficiencies and inequities by decentralizing management
responsibilities held by SESAB to municipalities and micro-regions, and introducing
Regulation Centers (that assign patients a specific date and time with a provider,
following a referral by a primary health provider), selective contracting, and systems of
audit and review. But few of Bahia's municipalities and micro-regions had the capacity
for complying with these new requirements. Furthermore, the governance system for
micro-regions was undefined, with different states using varying approaches. Bahia had
some experience with a system whereby a designated municipality in Gestão Plena status
(a "municipio pólo) managed part of the budget of neighboring smaller municipalities
("satellites") with varying participation of the satellites and of the state in daily
management of resources or in oversight, but needed more experience to test and adapt
an optimal model.


In 2000, Bahia spent the equivalent of 6.7% of the state GDP on health care. The public
sector financed 45% of this expenditure. The Federal Government was the largest


                                            3
contributor, with 57% of the total; its transfers were earmarked to Basic Care (27%),
medium complexity care (63%) and high complexity care (10%). Only 19 of the state's
417 municipalities had qualified for Gestão Plena, and the state government continued to
handle two thirds of the federal transfers. The state government financed about one
quarter of public expenditures in health; nearly 80% of this amount finances medium
complexity procedures provided by the state's directly-owned network of hospitals, with
few of its resources going to Basic Care. Municipalities financed about 20% of public
health spending from their own resources, of which roughly 40% went to Basic Care.
But there were substantial variations in health spending among municipalities.


There were major inequalities in the geographic distribution of public health resources in
Bahia. Inequity in the geographical distribution of state government spending was
greater than the inequity in the distribution of federal transfers. Most of the state's
spending went to the payrolls of its own hospitals, with those localities obtaining the
largest benefits. The largest single problem was the concentration of health resources in
Salvador, the state's capital, which was receiving approximately 30% of the federal
transfers for complex care and 57% of the state governments funding for health care.
With only 18% of the state's population, Salvador was consuming about 40% of
combined federal and state-government funds.


Not only was Salvador receiving the lion's share of public spending on health in Bahia,
the city was also consuming a lot of SESAB's efforts on the direct provision of services,
delaying the agency's capacity development for policy-making and regulation.
Salvador's health care services were provided mostly through public hospitals run
directly by SESAB and by private hospitals selling services to SESAB since the
municipality had not developed its capacity to manage health care and had not achieved
the status of Gestão Plena.


Rationale for Bank Assistance. The Project was in line with the goals of the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the CAS update report of May 2002, which were to
promote sustainable long-term growth, alleviate poverty and reduce income inequality in
Brazil. The CAS's specific health sector goals of reducing child mortality, improving
maternal health and combating HIV/AIDS and other diseases were fully supported by the
Project. The CAS update emphasized the role of the NOAS on health decentralization,
which was supported by the Project. The APL Program, and the Project, also followed
the CAS goals in its geographic focus on Bahia---a relatively poor state in the Northeast,
one of Brazil's least developed regions. The Project followed the integrated development
approach proposed by the Bank and coordinated by the state government, whereby all
Bank assistance to states were integrated, regardless of sector, under a single coordinated
vision aimed at: (i) fighting poverty; (ii) improving governance; (iii) increasing
competitiveness; and (iv) preserving the environment. Bank assistance was expected to
bring worldwide experience to enrich policy dialogue with state authorities and improve


                                            4
project design and implementation. Because of its extensive involvement in support of
the country's health sector, the Bank would also encourage communication and
collaboration among key government agencies and ministries, and facilitate collaboration
with other Brazilian states implementing similar reforms.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators


The development objectives of the Bahia Health System Reform Project are to implement
the national policy of health care decentralization seeking to:


       (i) improve access of the poor to Basic Health Care, as measured by 10
           Performance Indicators that measure the coverage and quality of the health
           interventions with the greatest influence over child mortality, maternal
           mortality, and the incidence of diseases prevalent among the poor;
      (ii) reduce inequities in the allocation of publicly funded health care services, as
           measured by differentials between per-capita regional budgets; and

     (iii) improve the efficiency and quality in the use of public resources, as measured
           by the implementation of regulation systems mandated by national policies.

As the Project was the first phase of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD) for the Bahia Health System Reform Project presented
Performance Indicators expected to be achieved by completion of the first phase of the
APL (APL1, the project currently being reviewed) expected by 2007, and by the
completion of the APL program, that was expected by 2010. The ten Performance
Indicators included: (i) hospital admissions due to diarrheal infections; (ii) admissions
due to respiratory infections for children under five years of age; (iii) DPT/tetravalent
immunization coverage for children under one year of age; (iv) complete prenatal care
attendance as a proportion of the number of births; (v) confirmed cases of neonatal
tetanus; (vi) percent of underweight children; (vii) percent of new TB cases cured; (viii)
detection rate of leprosy cases; (ix) hospitalization rate of ketoacidosis and diabetic coma;
and (x) population covered by the Family Health Program.

The PAD also presented intermediate outcome indicators for both phases of the APL.
For the first phase, the intermediate outcomes expected were: (i) the concentration of the
state's public health expenditures in Salvador is reduced from 40% to 35%; (ii) the
capacity of the municipality of Salvador is developed to the level required by national
policies for Gestão Plena; (iii) at least five health micro-regions purchase services worth
10% or more of the budget of participating municipalities and will audit the provision of
care; (iv) at least five high complexity interventions are regulated with transparency in
the assignment of resources to interventions and to patients; and (v) the role of the State
Health Secretariat in direct provision of services is reduced by limiting the number of
small hospitals under its direct control to no more than 10. By completion of the second
phase of the APL Program, the following intermediate outcomes were expected: (i)


                                             5
information on health outcomes is produced regularly and with an internationally
recognized methodology; (ii) the proportion of state spending directed to Salvador's
population is reduced from 40% to 30% of the total; (iii) all health micro-regions operate
as purchasers of services, audit the provision of care and effectively guarantee access to
health care to their populations in an equitable fashion; (iv) high complexity care is
regulated with transparent rules for the allocation of resources to interventions and to
patients and providers are subject to audits; and (v) the role of the State Health Secretariat
is reduced in direct provision of services, by eliminating its direct provision of services,
by eliminating its direct control of small hospitals and by transferring the responsibility
for management of health services in Salvador to the municipality.




1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The Project's PDO were not formally revised, although, as described in the section on
Monitoring and Evaluation, the supervision team agreed to modifications in the indicators
and targets that were utilized, without formal restructuring.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The program was designed to improve health outcomes of the population of the State of
Bahia by expanding access and quality of care and to improve efficiency in the use of
public resources. Most of the improvements in basic health outcomes were expected
from the expansion of Basic Care that was to result from a combination of improved
policies for Basic Care and investments financed by municipal subprojects. The Project
was expected to increase the impact of existing resources and result in re-directing
additional municipal and state government resources to Basic Care that would benefit the
entire population of the state. Municipal subprojects were expected to benefit the
population of around 40 municipalities in the state, covering around two million people.

1.5 Original Components

The Project included four components, as described below.

Component 1. Implementation of health micro-regions in Bahia (US$18.3 million,
including contingencies)

Strengthening management and governance of micro-regions. The Project aimed to
strengthen the role of the micro-region as a purchaser of health services through
provision of: (i) technical assistance for the deployment of performance based contracts
between the micro-regions and their local providers; (ii) technical assistance, works and
equipment for the implementation of Regulation Centers; and (iii) technical assistance


                                              6
and training for the adaptation of SUS card technology to the local conditions and the
implementation of applications that addressed the needs of micro-regional management.
To strengthen the capacity of micro-regions to conduct clinical, environmental and
financial audits of providers and to initiate a process of accreditation, the Project aimed to
support: (i) turn-key contracts to develop auditing and accreditation systems; (ii)
technical assistance for the preparation of Medical Waste Plans in health care facilities
and implementation of existing local environmental assessment and licensing of health
centers; and (iii) training to teach audits and accreditation techniques.

Micro-regions were expected to develop governance systems--to be defined during
implementation--that balanced the priorities, needs and capacities of large municipalities,
their small surrounding municipalities and the state. The Project aimed to support this
process by financing: (i) the initial costs of implementing local governing bodies; (ii) the
implementation of micro-regional planning and budgeting tools; (iii) meetings and
seminars for municipal health secretaries, and field trips for members of the governing
body to visit other states that had successfully implemented micro-regions; and (iv)
monitoring and evaluation of activities.

Equipment for the first Level of Medium Complexity Health Care (M1). SESAB
had already established 31 micro-regions in Bahia. The Project would finance equipment
for micro-regions in which a "municipio pólo" had met two conditions: (i) it had signed
agreements with its partner municipalities to engage in management and regulation of the
micro-regional healthcare network through its Micro-Regional Regulation Center, and (ii)
it had developed a work plan to achieve full management capacity (Gestão Plena
Municipal) within three years. Financing would be provided for purchase of equipment
from a restricted list.

Support for Management Improvements in the Municipality of Salvador. An Action
Plan had been agreed between the Municipality of Salvador and SESAB to strengthen the
management capacity of the Municipality with the aim of acquiring Gestão Plena by
2004. The Project would provide the technical assistance required to implement this
Action Plan, including: (i) developing a system of reference and counter reference in
Salvador---including the use of gatekeepers in the tertiary hospitals; (ii) implementing
Regulation Centers with the capacity to purchase basic and medium complexity services
from public and private providers and with the capacity to exercise audits; (iii) preparing
a study of environmental health in the Municipality; (iv) creating a planning and
budgeting office in the Municipal Health Secretariat, charged with managing a Fondo
Municipal de Saúde; and (v) support for the development and maintenance of
epidemiological and administrative data bases.

Component 2. Strengthening capacity for policy implementation and regulation in
SESAB (US$7.1 million, including contingencies)

Information Systems, Monitoring and Evaluation. The Project would provide support
for implementing and analyzing two large health, demographic and social household
surveys, the first at the beginning of the Project's implementation to provide a baseline



                                              7
for the Project and the second at the completion of the first phase of the APL. It would
also support the Project's other monitoring and evaluation requirements.

Policy Studies. The Project would finance the carrying out of policy studies to support
the development of contracts, reforms of the payment systems (related to the Tabela
SUS), and improvements of environmental management of medical waste. It would also
finance studies and workshops to disseminate lessons learned from the Project's
implementation.

Control and Management of High Complexity Care. The Project aimed to strengthen
the capacity of SESAB as a purchaser and auditor of high complexity care and would
initiate accreditation activities for high complexity procedures. It would do this by
financing technical assistance and training required for the introduction of performance
contracting, the deployment of a Regulation Center for High Complexity Care at the state
level, strengthening of audit functions in high complexity care and initiating a process of
accrediting health care providers of high complexity care.

Component 3. Expansion of Basic Care (US$21.5 million, including contingencies)

Strengthening the Pacto de Atenção Básica. The Project aimed to strengthen the
state's role in planning, negotiating, monitoring and evaluating the Pactos by providing
technical assistance, training and equipment for the implementation of a state-level
system of planning municipal targets, development of a system of consistency checks
between the various databases pertaining to Basic Care, and quarterly reporting to the
State Council of progress towards Pacto targets for each micro-region. It was also to
ensure that quality norms for Basic Care were being followed by the: (i) implementation
of protocols for the delivery of the priority health programs, for the improved reception
and warmth in the manner of dealing with patients, and for the recording and
maintenance of clinical histories; (ii) implementation of a system to certify that Family
Health Teams were effectively utilizing the norms of the Family Health Program; and
(iii) supervision of a pre-defined sample of municipalities to certify compliance with
existing norms and protocols of Basic Care.

Strengthening the Basic Pharmacy Program. The Project would finance: (i)
implementation of an internet-based price-bank (including data of prices paid for basic
drugs) and a system of e-purchases for municipalities; (ii) training of state and municipal
staff in the use of price-bank and e-purchases; (iii) improvement in local-level storage
capacity in active micro-regions; and (iv) implementation of a communications campaign
to improve the rational use of drugs.

Basic Care Expansion Subprojects. The Project would support the expansion of Basic
Care services in 30-40 municipalities during the first phase of the APL. This was to be
achieved through the implementation of Basic Care Expansion Subprojects designed to
obtain measurable progress in ten performance indicators from the Pacto de Atenção
Básica to monitor progress in priority interventions designed to reduce: (i) infant
mortality; (ii) maternal mortality; (iii) malnutrition; and (iv) incidence of "diseases of the



                                              8
poor"; and to strengthen the Family Health Program. While the Subprojects were to be
demand-driven, SESAB expected an emphasis on Subprojects addressing the following
areas: (i) strengthening the supply of basic services by remodeling of health centers
(including the conversion of small municipal general hospitals into outpatient facilities
with limited 24 hour emergency services), procurement of basic medical, transport and
communications equipment, and the hiring of incremental health care workers (not as
civil servants); (ii) institutional modernization and strengthening of information systems
through the provision of technical assistance and training directed to addressing the
mandatory municipal health management programs; and (iii) training and supervision.
Subprojects were to be based on a Basic Care Expansion Plan which was to include
targets for each of the 10 indicators of the Pacto de Atenção Básica, an assessment of the
status of implementation of municipal health management programs mandated by the
federal and state governments, a local environmental health plan, estimated costs of the
Subproject, a sustainability proposal including the use of municipal and state funds that
would be phased-in as project funds phased out, a procurement plan for Subproject
implementation and a disbursement plan. To overcome capacity constraints, the Project
was to finance technical assistance to interested municipalities, and the regional outposts
of SESAB would receive special training to support municipalities in the preparation of
their Plans. The participating municipalities were to be clustered together in a few micro-
regions during the initial years of implementation favoring cross-learning and facilitating
the provision of technical assistance.

The Basic Care Expansion Plans were to form the basis for Subproject Implementation
Agreements between the municipalities and the state, which would set forth the
respective obligations regarding Subproject implementation.     If in any year a
municipality failed to achieve at least 6 of the 10 targets, SESAB, could suspend
disbursements. The Project designed a set of minimum criteria for eligibility and a
system of points for the final selection of municipalities.

Component 4. Project Management (US$2.8 million)
The Project was designed to finance a small Project Coordination Unit (PCU), including
PCU staff, refurbishment of existing space within SESAB, office equipment, vehicles,
technical assistance to ensure adequate implementation of the Project, administrative
expenses for the PCU and for micro-regional offices, communication services, as well as
operation and maintenance of computing, medical and laboratory equipment.

1.6 Revised Components

The Project's components were not revised formally but there were several modifications
to the Project's municipal focus and activities, as described in Section 3, and a slightly
different focus to several of the activities that were financed.

1.7 Other significant changes

The Loan Agreement had two extension of the Closing Date to June 30, 2009 and to
Augsust 31, 2009 to allow additional time to complete the Project in view of initial delays
in implementation. In addition, there were reallocations of funds that followed the


                                            9
country needs reflected on a changing environment and the practicality of using sources
of information already in place instead of preparing its own surveys.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Sufficiency of background analysis. The design of the APL Program, and of the Project
were fully consistent with the Bank's CAS for Brazil and incorporated findings and
recommendations of the Bank's sector work and lessons learned from other projects. The
Program's (and Project's) design was based on the national policies for the
decentralization of health care and on the state policies for poverty alleviation, that had
been reviewed by the Bank in its study, Decentralization of Health Care in Brazil--A
Case Study of Bahia.1 This study's main recommendations had been discussed with the
incoming Governor of Bahia, and had been incorporated in the Program, as described and
reflected in a Letter of Development Policy that was included in the PAD. The Program
complemented numerous Government actions in the health sector and in other sectors
with the potential to improve the health of the population. Project preparation was also
guided by an extensive effort to extract lessons learned from other projects to improve its
design and implementation strategies. Lessons were extracted from: (i) ICRs of closed
projects in support of Brazil's health sector; (ii) the Mid-Term Review of a then ongoing
project; and (iii) OED reports on the health sector in general and on Brazil's health sector
in particular.2 The lessons included: (i) ensure political commitment to the program and
build local constituency for the project; (ii) establish a competent and stable project
management team; (iii) ensure adequate institutional capacity for project implementation;
(iv) create partnerships with other agencies and developmental institutions to maximize
project effectiveness; (v) address determinants of health that lie outside the medical care
system, including behavioral change and cross-sector interventions; and (vi) avoid
complexity and allow flexibility in project design. The PAD enumerated these lessons,
and proposed how the Project's design addressed each of them.

Assessment of the Project's Design. While ambitious in terms of its objectives and
geographic scope, covering, potentially, all municipalities in the state, the Project's
design was realistic in terms of its design. The management and delivery of health care
services in Brazil involves a complex institutional arrangement with varying
responsibilities pre-defined and shared among three levels of government. In an effort to
seek greater efficiency in the provision of medium complexity health care, an additional
level---that of the micro-region---was introduced. This was the institutional environment

1
 Decentralization of Health Care in Brazil---A Case Study of Bahia, Report No. 224416, dated
2003/05/16
2
 Investing in Health: Development Effectiveness in Health, Nutrition and Population, Report
No. 21392, dated 1999/07/31 and The Brazil Health System: Impact Evaluation Report, Report
No. 18142, dated1998/06/30. and The Brazil Health System: Impact Evaluation Report, Report
No. dated



                                              10
in which the Project was to be implemented, and the Project was designed specifically to
improve quality, efficiency and equity within this framework, with few, well-focused
components defined to meet its objectives. The state's Health Secretariat, Secretaria de
Saúde da Bahia (SESAB) was the principal executing agency, with project
implementation through its line agencies and participating municipalities. During
preparation, an institutional assessment, including an analysis of regulatory, procurement,
financial and organizational aspects, had been carried out to determine if SESAB had the
required capacity to carry out the Project. The assessment concluded that: (i) there was
strong coherence and consistency between the Project and SESAB's new institutional
objectives and priorities aimed at policy making, regulation, technical assistance to
municipalities, monitoring and evaluation and permanent education and communication
on health related matters; (ii) the regulatory instruments required for project
implementation were already in place; and (iii) SESAB had the potential to lead the
Project to a successful conclusion provided it addressed some identified technical and
administrative weaknesses. The Project was designed to provide specialized technical
assistance and training to strengthen SESAB in selected areas.

Coordination was to be provided through a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) established
to provide: (i) financial oversight; (ii) coordination with line agencies and department,
regional offices and external agencies; (iii) coordination with municipal governments;
and (iv) monitoring and evaluation. The Project provided for strengthening the PCU's
capacity in the areas of procurement and financial management. The implementation of
Basic Care Expansion Subprojects under Component III was to be demand driven, with
Subproject proposals presented by interested municipalities.           The eligibility of
Subprojects, of implementing municipalities and of expenditures to be financed under the
Subprojects as well as their implementation arrangements (procurement, disbursement,
selection, approval, environmental requirements, monitoring and supervision) were to be
detailed in the Project's Operational Manual. Subprojects estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$500,000 or more would be subject the Bank's prior review.

The Project was assigned an Environmental Category "B", mostly because of the issue of
handling of medical waste, which has become rather standard now for projects in the
health sector, and an Environmental Assessment was prepared. Project design was also
guided by a Social Assessment which was carried out as an iterative process of
systematic stakeholder consultations and participation that was to be continued through
implementation, and addressed data and recommendations related to women's and child's
health that surfaced from a Brazil Gender Review (January 2000). Although the
Indigenous Peoples Policy (OD 4.20) was deemed to not apply to the Project, its design
incorporated an Indigenous Peoples Development Framework (IPDF) that set out the
process and actions that would need to be followed in the remote eventuality that a
Subproject in an area with an Indigenous population were to be submitted for financing,
including the need to prepare a Subproject level Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
(IPDP). Bank approval of the Subproject level IPDP and related institutional agreements
was to be a condition of disbursement against Subprojects benefiting Indigenous Groups.
The IPDF was presented as an Annex to the PAD, and was to be included in the
Operations Manual.



                                            11
While the Project's design was considered appropriate, and benefited from extensive
analysis and the incorporation of extensive lessons, the state of preparation of tools
needed for a ready implementation, while perhaps appropriate at the time, was much less
that would be in place today. The Project's Operations Manual was not ready when
implementation began, did not contain a full implementation plan for the Project, M&E
arrangements were not in place, and, more importantly, the key staff needed to get the
Project's implementation underway were either not familiar with the Project or not on
board. In retrospect, the Project, when the Bank's loan was approved, was not ready to
begin implementation with the result that the first years after approval were dedicated to
finalizing arrangements that were needed to begin execution.

Adequacy of Government's Commitment and Participatory Process. The
Government's commitment to and ownership of the Project were considered high. The
Project had been prepared in consultation with a wide range of key sector players
including those from the federal and state governments, the municipality of Salvador and
the association of municipal health secretaries. The final months of preparation
coincided with the final preparation of and discussion with the government of economic
and sector work on Decentralization of Health Care in Brazil---A Case Study of Bahia.
SESAB had allocated counterpart funds for the Project in its budget, and approved a
special decree to establish the PCU. As mentioned above, systematic stakeholder
consultations were carried out during preparation of the Social Assessment. Field visits
and further consultations with Municipal Health Secretaries, Municipal Health Council
members, members of the Community Health Agents Program (a predecessor to PSF),
medical doctors, nurses and PSF were carried out during field visits at the time of
preparation.

Assessment of Risks. The PAD assessed the Project's overall risk as "Substantial", on
the basis of several risks from Outputs to Objectives, and from Components to Outputs.
In retrospect, this overall risk rating was perhaps higher than ratings for projects that are
institutionally or by design much more complex. In reviewing the Critical Risks with the
benefit of hindsight, it is clear that the main risk the Project faced during
implementation--i.e., the risk of delays or refocusing of approach due to changes in state
government administration--was not identified as a risk per se. However, this risk could
be interpreted through other risks that were made explicit, such as the risk of "Loss of
commitment to greater equity by state authorities". Still, this risk of changes in
commitment or focus, and of changes in staffing due to a change in administration in the
end turned out to have a rather significant impact on implementation, leading to
continuous delays at least through 2007, especially since the State and municipalities
faced elections less than one year after loan effectiveness. Similarly, another risk that
affected implementation throughout was that of delays in procurement. Although the
PAD had identified the very issues that affected the Project in this area, i.e., the
procurement staff was not satisfactorily staffed or trained, no technical staff for preparing
accurate technical specifications, lack of substantial knowledge on the Bank's
procurement procedures, it rated the procurement risk as only average on the basis of an
action plan that was agreed during negotiations to address identified issues. It is obvious



                                             12
also that while the preparation process identified relevant risks, the risk analysis was
much less detailed than that followed for the preparation of Bank-financed projects today.

2.2 Implementation

After Board approval on June 12, 2002, loan signing on August 26, 2003 and
effectiveness on November 10, 2003, the Project's implementation got off to a slow and
difficult start. The state government had faced elections in the final stages of preparation,
and the new administration which had been in office only five months when loan
negotiations took place "had not been able to focus sufficiently on the project at the time
and was now finding it did not meet their needs".3 The initial supervision mission
focused on activities to bring the Project to a state where it was ready to be implemented.
But more importantly, it became clear that the government had a different concept of
"reform processes" than that which was defined in the PAD and supported by the Project.
Early ISRs report that there was a tendency by the government to view the Project as a
vehicle for financing infrastructure, equipment and human resources. They noted that
"SESAB's approach to subproject preparation is top-down and proposals are supply-
driven, lacking an analysis of demand, existing services and bottlenecks, and of current
management practices, as the PAD requires......the firm contracted to assist in the
preparation of subprojects is preparing them itself, with limited participation of municipal
authorities."4 Bank missions raised concerns that the approach the Government was
taking failed to strengthen local capacity, and went against the spirit of decentralization.
The government was prioritizing subproject investments in the poorest 15 municipalities,
as defined by a human development index, and presented subproject proposals heavily
focused on recurrent human resource costs, without an sustainability plans. Despite
reservations, the Bank agreed to begin supporting these municipalities in view of their
priority on the needs of the poorest. SESAB was also facing considerable pressure to
show results, and pressed for up-front purchase of equipment for Medium Complexity
Care, even before municipalities in micro-regions had defined their governance systems.
The team in SESAB had been working well together, but the PCU lacked technical
capacity, and due in part to their different physical locations, coordination between
SESAB and the PCU was very weak. Less than one year after signing, the Project was
already rated Unsatisfactory for Implementation Performance.

The Government and the Bank began discussing the possibility of a project restructuring
that would adjust the Project to the state's preferred implementation priorities: they
preferred a single governance model for the micro-regions to be applied across the state,
they proposed to establish regional regulation centers at the macro-regional level (in
seven macro-regions) rather than at the micro-regional level, and they were, at the time,
requesting finance for intensive care units in three cities, including Salvador. The Bank's
supervision mission had made it clear that any such proposal would have required
approval by the Bank's Board. In the end, after intensive supervision on the part of the
3
    Implementation Status and Results Report No. 2, dated June 9, 2004.

4
    Implementation Status and Results Report No. 2, dated June 9, 2004.



                                                13
Bank and the growing experience gained by the government, it became clear that a major
project restructuring would not be warranted as the government would implement the
Project within the framework under which it was designed.

By end-2004: (i) the loan had disbursed only 3.6% of its original amount after 15 months
of implementation; (ii) the Project was not focused on results as defined in the PAD; (iii)
there was a need to de-bureaucratize the processes in SESAB and in the Bank; (iv) the
implementation of M&E was seen as critical; (v) the PCU needed strengthening to
manage the Project, and improve the dialogue between SESAB and other agencies such
as the Municipality of Salvador. Between November 2004 and March 2005, the Bank
mounted six different missions to supervise different aspects (Financial Management,
Procurement) and components of the Project. Implementation began to turn around.
Loan disbursements tripled in five months, there was more integration between SESAB
and the PCU (facilitated in part by the inauguration of new offices for SESAB which also
housed the PCU), a greater focus on results was being introduced and important progress
was being made in Basic Care. In sum, the Project's implementation was on what was
seen to be taking "a positive cycle" of implementation, and Implementation Progress was
upgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory.

By mid-2005, after a first change in State Government administration, there was renewed
ownership of the Project by SESAB, more integration among the various units involved
in implementation, and an increasing focus on M&E. The Government had already
complied with one of the Project's Performance Indicators, two years ahead of schedule:
SESAB had reduced the number of hospitals under its control to less than ten (Indicator
6). SESAB now assumed technical ownership of the Project, and it now planned and
supervised most of its technical aspects.

The Project's Mid-Term Review (MTR) was carried out from May 22-30, 2006. The
general conclusions of that Review, as reflected in the ISR dated December 27, 2006
were that: "the development of a clear focus on results by SESAB during the past two
years, as well as the new environment of incentives developed with basis on the new
M&E system have contributed to create a new virtuous cycle for project
implementation". The MTR found that there was continued progress towards compliance
with Performance Indicators. Other key findings were that there had been: (i) preventive
actions and better control of diseases in municipalities as a result of education and
training programs introduced by the Project; (ii) better supervision and training of the
PSF teams; (iii) improvements in the pharmaceuticals system due to better planning and
control of stocks; (iv) the transfer of resources that guaranteed the implementation of
activities at the municipal level, the implementation of Subprojects, in which the "results-
based approach" was agreed up-front; (v) the intensive supervision by SESAB and
discussions about targets and triggers regularly permitted and early identification of
problems and solutions; and (vi) an award system that created an additional motivation
for the engagement of mayors in leading improvements in public health service delivery
had created a sense of accountability that reinforced the results management approach.
The rating for Project Implementation was maintained at Moderately Satisfactory,
however, since a new administration was expected to take office early in 2007, and there



                                            14
was concern that they might be challenged to maintain the rhythm of project
implementation.

The Bank's concerns did not materialize. To the contrary, the transition was smooth,
with the following results: (i) SESAB's strategic vision was maintained and reinforced;
(ii) the originally envisioned organizational and institutional arrangements for SESAB
were considered effective and efficient for implementation; (iii) only three persons who
had been working with the Project were removed from office, despite massive
replacements in other areas; and (iv) SESAB decided to strengthen the procurement
function to provide stronger governance. Furthermore, the State showed strong
indications of the priority that it assigned to the Project. In order to ensure strong
implementation in its remaining implementation period, the location of the PIU was
changed from reporting to the Planning Department in SESAB to reporting directly to the
Office of the State Secretary of Health. The Project continued to make good progress
toward compliance with Performance Indicators, and towards the restructuring and
strengthening of the model of health care delivery in Bahia, and consequently towards the
Project's Development Objectives.          Following continued progress, the Bank's
supervision team recommended upgrading Implementation Performance to Satisfactory
in ISR No. 11, dated June 26, 2008. Project implementation continued on a positive
trend throughout the two loan closing date extension periods that became necessary to
provide additional time to complete planned activities in view of initial implementation
delays. While this turn-around and renewed priority ensured that the Project financed--
either directly with loan resources or through counterpart within the overall framework of
the Project's objectives--most of the activities that had been programmed, and set in
motion the push to adequate Bahia's health care service delivery to the umbrella of
Brazil's SUS, many of the Project's direct impacts on health outcomes and increased
efficiency and equity will likely only become evident in the next few years.

Although the Project was structured as a SIL with identified activities to be financed,
during implementation, especially in its later years, it operated with many characteristics
of what are now known as Sector-Wide Approaches, or SWAPs. While the Bank
required the use of separate project financial management, and procurement procedures
particular to project-financed goods and services, the Project financed activities under
what was in effect the State Government's health care program (and within the
continuously changing framework of the Federal Government's SUS), adjusting those
activities along the way to adapt to lessons of experience during implementation. As an
example, when it became clear that the system of incentives to retain medical doctors in
Family Health Teams in rural areas was not achieving the desired objectives, the Project
financed preparatory studies and start-up of a foundation that hires medical professionals
for associated municipalities to contract to assign in their jurisdictions. In this sense, the
Project maintained its relevance throughout its implementation, especially during its later
years when implementation took off in earnest. The final allocation of project costs, by
component and by source of financing, is provided in Annex 1.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization




                                             15
M&E Design The APL Program's design established a succinct and well-defined but
rather complex Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) framework that would be used to
monitor progress against Key Performance Indicators that measured a mix of outcomes
and outputs, both at completion of the Project, and upon completion of the APL Program
(PAD, Annex 1). These Key Performance Indicators included targets to be achieved by
2007 and 2010 (originally expected completion of Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the APL,
respectively). The Key Performance Indicators for the APL Program and for the Project
are presented in Annex I.

A baseline for the Project was not in place at the time of approval, but financing was
provided under Component II for implementing and analyzing two large health
demographic and social household surveys. The first of these was to provide a baseline
for the Project, and the second would be carried out at completion. Technical assistance
and other support for strengthening and carrying out other M&E activities, to be
implemented by SESAB, micro-regions, the Municipality of Salvador and other
participating municipalities was also to be provided by the Project.

The Project's expected outcome/impact indicators and targets were also to be used as
performance triggers, upon achievement of which, preparation of Phase 2 of the APL
would commence. These included:

    · Trigger 1. The success rate of the Basic Care Performance Agreements (Pactos)
    increased from 0% in 2001 to 50% in 2007 (Success rate was defined as the percent
    of the state municipalities that had reached at least 8 of their targets for the 10
    indicators agreed for the Project;



    · Trigger 2. The use of federal and state funds for health care by the population of
    Salvador has been reduced from 40% to 35% of the total for the state of Bahia;



    · Trigger 3. Regulation systems implemented in at least five micro-regions (this will
    include: (i) Management of at least 10% of the budget of the participating
    municipalities by a unit accountable to all municipalities participating in the micro-
    region; (ii) a system of audits for services performed implemented; and (iii) a system
    of quality accreditation implemented);



    · Trigger 4. A Regulation Center for High Complexity Interventions is in operation
    (with public information about waiting lists and the use of public funds);



    · Trigger 5. The Municipality of Salvador has received support from the
    Government of Bahia to become accredited for Gestão Plena;


                                           16
    · Trigger 6. Small Hospitals (under 50 beds) directly managed by SESAB reduced
    to no more than 10.


The Project's monitoring framework also established output targets by components, as
presented in Table 1.




                                        17
Table 1. Expected Outputs by Component



                Component                                    Output Indicators
I. Implementation of Health Micro-                Five micro-regions implemented
regions                                           New contracting system for health services
                                                  tested
                                                  Municipal skills required for Gestao Plena
                                                  developed in Salvador and five municipios
                                                  polo
II. Strengthened Capacity for Policy              Two health and demographic household
Implementation                                    surveys completed
                                                  Four policy studies completed
                                                  A Regulation Center for High Complexity
                                                  services deployed
III. Expanded Basic Care                          Inconsistencies eliminated from data bases
                                                  for Basic Care
                                                  Quarterly analysis and reporting of
                                                  PACTOS in place
                                                  Protocols for quality surveillance of Basic
                                                  Care issued
                                                  About 30 Basic Care Expansion Plans
                                                  approved and under implementation

There were several issues with the design of the Project's outcome indicators, especially
those to be used in monitoring results at the municipal level under the first composite
indicator (see Section 3.2). There was also confusion with respect to the Project's second
indicator relating to reducing the concentration of the state's public health expenditures in
Salvador. From the start, it was not clear whether this related to a reduction of all public
health expenditures in Salvador (federal, state and municipal) or some other definition.
This was complicated since during the Project's execution, Salvador achieved Gestao
Plena, through which the municipality became authorized to receive and manage federal
resources directly.

M&E Implementation

The Project did not have a baseline when it was approved, and early missions worked
closely with the government to prepare the Terms-of-Reference (TORs) for the baseline
survey, establish a monitoring system to track progress toward objectives based on the
Project's Results Framework, and hire a capable M&E professional who could manage
this aspect of the Project. Almost one and a half years after approval, the Bank's
Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) still highlighted the need to focus the
Project on results, as defined in the PAD and implement the M&E system. By April
2005, after an intensive supervision effort to keep the Project on track despite initial
setbacks, the supervision team reported that implementation had improved and that the



                                             18
Project was focusing on results, a consistent M&E proposal had been prepared, and
assistance for developing the Project's baseline had been contracted. By mid-2005,
SESAB had developed a results-based management process, which in effect it needed to
monitor progress under the Pactos with municipalities, that included a good M&E system
that would allow it to: (i) monitor the implementation of project-financed activities,
products and results; (ii) evaluate changes at the institutional level and in the state health
care model; and (iii) track changes in the health situation of the state's population. The
M&E system was divided into three sub-systems, through which SESAB was to monitor
at least six trigger indicators as defined in the PAD, and 39 expected results.

M&E Utilization

By late 2005, the Bank's ISRs noted that "the Project adopted well the results-based
management approach (RMA), and M&E data is now being used to periodically analyze
progress in indicators, inequalities, and a more timely response to observed dilemmas.
Importantly, SESAB has started to utilize RMA with some of their [own-financed]
projects as well." There had been steady progress towards achievement of targets for key
performance indicators, and the Project had already complied with two trigger indicators
two years ahead of schedule (Triggers 2 and 6). At the same time, as an added incentive,
the Government decided to publicly acknowledge municipalities that had achieved their
desired levels of results towards agreed indicators. It was apparent that intensive
supervision by SESAB, including routine review and discussion about progress towards
project targets and triggers was permitting an early identification of problems and the
adoption of measures to address them. The new municipal accreditation system whereby
municipalities that achieved desired results were acknowledged was having an important
impact. SESAB's supervision of municipalities both for the Project and for its own
program, and Bank supervision of the Project were results-driven, based on the M&E
system that had been established. In the end, SESAB was applying results-based
management to all of its programs, and had presented a first-ever health sector results
performance evaluation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard


The environmental assessment carried out during project preparation concluded that the
state's environmental regulations and norms contained clear procedures and guidelines
for environmental assessment of health services, proper handling of medical wastes,
proper final disposition of such wastes and proper monitoring guidelines for reducing
health risks. An Environmental Management Plan was prepared for the Project, and
included in its Operations Manual and Implementation Plan. The Project's design was
expected to have a positive environmental impact through its strengthening of capacity
for environmental assessment of municipalities and health centers, the preparation of
Medical Waste Plans and implementation of environmental criteria in the audit of health
services. The Project was also require the preparation of a Subproject-level IPDP in the


                                             19
event that it were to finance activities in a municipality in which indigenous people
resided. The Bank's supervision teams rated Safeguards compliance as either
Satisfactory or Moderately Satisfactory throughout implementation.


Fiduciary


The Project suffered initial delays in contracting staff to handle fiduciary matters in the
PCU, and the lack of familiarity with the Bank's requirements. The Bank's supervision
teams rated Financial Management and Procurement performance as either Satisfactory
or Moderately Satisfactory throughout implementation, mostly to reflect issues
concerning delays in contracting.        In reality, procurement suffered very significant
delays, not only in the Project's early implementation where the delays were almost
across the board, but also in its later stages when most of the contracting got underway.
In part because of the lack of qualified staffing and in part due to the lack of preparing
terms-of-reference and implementation plans during preparation, even the process of
hiring consultants needed to carry out needed technical assistance was affected.
Consultants were contracted to prepare terms-of-reference to contract consultants to
provide technical assistance. The state ran into difficulties with the process for
contracting of consultant firms, in part due to the delays in obtaining their own internal
approval for the contracting of especially consultant firms, and in the end, most of the
services contracted under the Project were provided by individual consultants.
Approximately 76 percent of the value of all goods and services contracted under the
Project (excluding Subprojects) were procured from October 2008 to September 2009,
reflecting its lack of readiness and the large delays that the Project suffered in early
implementation.

In addition, there were two important fiduciary issues under the Project, as described
below. A Special Audit was carried out to develop and implement plans for the
management of medical waste in the Micro-Regions' and health centers; auditing and
accreditation systems for health providers; training personnel on audit and accreditation
techniques; and implementation of existing local environmental assessment and licensing
of health centers.

The auditors considered that the overall internal control systems were adequate for the
financial management and monitoring of the Project. However, there were some
exceptions related to the structure of existing internal controls. The Bank requested that
SESAB implement measure to avoid those certain situations recur, including: (i) small
ineligible amounts previously disbursed and (ii) delivery of imperfect services, and
expenses for materials over and above original specifications. SESAB immediately put
into effect a plan to address the issues identified in the audit.

In end-2007, there were media allegations of irregularities related to a firm that included
in its list of consulting services two persons who were later nominated to government
positions. The Bank's supervision team prepared a detailed memo for SESAB's


                                            20
consideration describing the allegations. The team's memo included input from other
Bank procurement specialists and country and sector management. The memo concluded
that the government had followed the Bank's procurement policies and advice in the
process, and made it explicit in the record. In addition, the Bank concluded that no
conflict of interest influenced the selection process for this contract, and that the
government had complied with Bank requirements in all respects.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Although it had substantially complied with the triggers for Phase 2 of the Bahia Health
System Reform Program, the state government decided not to proceed with the follow-on
operation. Instead, it requested a new operation, in the form of a Sector-Wide Approach
(SWAp) that would combine interventions in both health and water sectors. This is
because a combined sector strategy is seen as the most cost-effective way to reduce
diarrheal diseases and the ultimate reduction of the IMR regarding its post-neonatal
component. The SWAp approach was preferred as it is seen as supportive of a multi-
sector focus, while continuing to contribute to the improvement of the government's own
ongoing programs through a pooling of government and Bank funds. Bahia has
demonstrated, under the Project, that it has strong financial management systems that can
be relied upon for the Bank's fiduciary requirements, hence allowing Bank assistance to
be concentrated on a few selected programs to accelerate their implementation and the
achievement of expected results.

The proposed approach is fully consistent with the state's Strategic Plan for 2008-2011,
and incorporates, yet expands, the objectives, activities and institutional reforms that have
been supported by the Phase 1 of the APL under the Project.

The proposed Bahia Integrated Health and Water Management Project, now in its final
stages of preparation, aims to: (i) reduce morbidity due to diarrhea in children under one
year of age; (ii) reduce mortality due to diarrhea in children under one year of age; (iii)
reduce early neonatal mortality in 30 selected reference hospitals; (iv) strengthen the
state's water resource management system; (v) facilitate the access of water supply and
sanitation services in 30 selected municipalities affected by diarrhea; and (v) support the
annual management performance agreements for improving the efficiency, effectiveness
and quality of 147 water systems. The proposed project would continue to provide
technical assistance and institutional-strengthening support to SESAB, micro-regions and
municipalities, with a special emphasis on the functioning of reference services,
information management and monitoring and evaluation of results.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The Project's objectives remain highly relevant towards achieving the State of Bahia and
Brazil's development objectives and those of the Bank's current Country Partnership




                                             21
Strategy.5 Key areas in the "Equitable Brazil Plan" for the FY2008-2011 period include:
(i) extending health and education coverage and systems and improving the quality of
these services; (ii) strengthening the accountability and the M&E performance of relevant
institutions; (iii) increasing involvement in the areas of health and education at the State
and Municipal levels; and (iv) prioritizing investment in the Northeast Region.

The Project is also consistent with the Government of Bahia's current Strategic Plan for
2008-2011 which prioritized improving the equity, quality and efficiency of its social
development, in particular healthcare and water/sanitation services (which are seen as a
necessary complement to improving health outcomes), including guaranteed access to
quality health and the expansion of related social infrastructure. For health, in particular,
the state's objectives are to reduce maternal and neonatal mortality as well as morbidity
and mortality due to diarrhea in all of Bahia's municipalities. The state government is
also committed to managing public policies effectively, and to increase focus on
monitoring and evaluation through multi-sector-based indicators to track the results and
impact of government actions.

Both Brazil and Bahia have witnessed improvements in health status over the past ten
years. Yet, improvements in Bahia have been less than those for the country as a whole.
Both federal programs such as the PSF and state-level health sector reforms have
contributed to expanding basic healthcare to Bahia's rural and poor population.
However, Bahia continues to face several important health challenges such as: (i) its
infant mortality rate (IMR), despite a significant reduction from 44.82 per 1,000 live
births in 1997 to around 20 in 2008, is the seventh highest in the country; (ii) the maternal
mortality ratio (MMR), at 106.7 deaths per 100,000 live births (2006), has worsened in
recent years, from the original 91.1 (2000), particularly affecting young women (25
percent of pregnancies form 1996 to 2007 were to mothers between the ages of 10 and
19); (iii) the leading cause of infant post-neonatal mortality is diarrhea (40 percent); and
(iv) health indicators vary greatly across the state, with especially poor results in rural
municipalities of the semi-arid region.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The Project made important progress towards the achievement of its development
objectives as defined in the PAD, and as reflected by progress towards achievement of its
defined indicators, as follows:

PDO1: To improve access of the poor to Basic Health Care, as measured by 10
performance indicators that measure the coverage and quality of the health
intervention with the greatest influence over child mortality, maternal mortality,
and the incidence of diseases prevalent among the poor.

The success rate of the Basic Care Performance Agreements (Pactos) increased from 0%
in 2001 to 50% in 2007 (Success rate is defined as the percent of the state municipalities
5
    Country Partnership Strategy for 2008-2011, Report No. 53356, dated 2010/03/11.




                                                    22
that have reached at least 8 of their targets for the following 10 indicators agreed for the
Project):

In complying with the NOAS, municipalities were to provide a wider array of services to
their populations, against which they would receive increased capitations through the
signing of Pactos de Atencao Básica with annual targets for the coverage of Basic Care
programs in the municipality. The Project supported the expansion and strengthening of
clinical basic services that were provided by the municipalities by expanding the number
of Family Health Teams, in part through the implementation of Sub-Projects under
Component 3 (Annex 2). SESAB was responsible for ensuring the compliance of
municipalities with the Basic Care targets set out in their Pactos. Although the Project
financed Sub-Projects in 78 municipalities, the indicator chosen to measure "success"
was against progress in all of the State's 417 municipalities.


Table 2. Performance indicators, 2001-2008
                                                                                                         % of
                                            Baseline             Target           Actual
    Performance Indicator
                                                                                                    Municipalities
                                             2001                 2007             2008
                                                                                                    that met target
    Hospital admissions due to
    diarrheal infections
                                               21%                18%               25%                     29

    Admissions due to respiratory            6.8 per             5.8 per         12.8 per
                                                                                                            87
    infections for children<5 years           1,000               1,000           1,0006
    DPT/tetravalent immunization
    coverage for children<1 year
                                               83%                90%               94%                    77.2

    Complete prenatal care                                                       94%
    attendance/number of births
                                               65%                70%                                      94%
                                                                             (SINAC 84%)
    Confirmed cases of neonatal
    tetanus
                                                 5                 0                  1                    99%

    Percent of underweight
    children
                                               7.3%              6.5%              8.5%                 Excluded

    Percent of new TB cases cured              68%                85%               51%                     26
                                             1.3 per              1 per           1.8 per
    Detection rate of leprosy cases                                                                         70
                                             10,000              10,000           10,000
    Hospitalization rate of
                                             0.7 per             0.3 per          0.6 per
    cetoacidose and diabetic                                                                                71
    comma                                    10,000              10,000           10,000

    Population covered by the                  11%                35%               51%                     86
    Family Health Program (PSF)


6
   The rate of admissions due to respiratory infections for children aged five years or less was 3.1 per thousand in 2007.
The large increase in the State's rate for this target in 2008 is the result of a change in the Federal Ministry of Health's
definition of respiratory illnesses, which resulted in the addition of nine more classifications being incorporated in the
definition.




                                                            23
24
Table 3. Achievement of indicators among the total number of municipalities and
among the subprojects
                                                      Selected
                                        Total
                                                   Municipalities
                                    Municipalities
                                                         or
                                      in Bahia
                                                    subprojects
              Number of
                                         417             86
              municipalities
              Number of Targets           %              %
              Nine targets               5.28           11.63
              Eight targets             18.23           18.60
              Seven targets             28.06           34.88
              Six targets               26.86           22.09
              Five or less targets      21.58           12.79
                                       100.00          100.00

Progress towards achievement of targets for this first indicator was generally good,
although this composite indicator that included a variety of intermediate outcomes,
outputs and coverage targets proved to be difficult to measure and not necessarily a full
indicator of the Project's impact. The target established for this composite indicator was
that 50 percent of the State's municipalities were to reach at least eight of the above ten
targets for the indicators. Almost from the start, it became apparent that one of the
targets in this composite was flawed in design: the underweight birth target. This target
was designed with the assumption that better pre-natal care would reduce underweight
births, but with experience it turned out that better pre-natal care, actually reduced
abortion rates and perinatal mortality, which then translated into increases in underweight
births and early neonatal mortality. The Bank's supervision team agreed to drop the
underweight birth target and require compliance with only seven of nine of the targets in
this composite indicator (but without restructuring of the Project). Using this revised
definition, 61 percent of the State's municipalities had met seven out of nine targets
under this composite indicator in 2009. A brief description of progress towards each of
these targets is provided below, followed by an analysis of the findings.

Hospital admissions due to diarrheal infections. With admissions rates fluctuating at
around 20 percent and sharp, as of yet unexplained, increases in 2006 and 2008, only 29
percent of the State's municipalities complied with the target of reducing hospital
admissions due to diarrheal infections to 18 percent. There was, however, a significant
drop in admissions of children aged one year or less, an age group that accounts for the
largest number of admissions due to diarrheal infections, from around 55 percent in 2000
to around 25 percent in 2008. Also, there was an important reduction in the mortality rate
due to intestinal infectious diseases in children under five, from 4.96 per 10,000
inhabitants in 2001 to 2.69 per 10,000 inhabitants in 2007. To further reduce risk of
infections due to human rotavirus, which represented some of the most serious cases of
diarrhea in children (between 20 and 38 percent of hospitalizations have been linked to
the virus), the State increased rates of vaccination against rotavirus from 38 percent in
2006 to 77 percent in 2008 for children aged one year and under.


                                            25
Admissions due to respiratory infections for children five years or less. Since 2002 there
has been a continued increase in the number of municipalities that complied with the
target of less than 5.8 admissions due to respiratory infections for children aged five or
less. By 2008, 87 percent of the State's municipalities had complied with this target
according to the definition of respiratory illnesses adopted for the Project (which unlike
the definition used by the Ministry of Health (MOH), excludes pneumonia). On a
statewide level, using the MOH's definition, the rate of admissions dropped from 8.0 per
thousand in 2002 to 3.1 per thousand in 2007 (but then increased dramatically as per the
MOH's new definition of respiratory infections as described in Footnote 6).

DPT/Tetravalent immunization coverage for children one year or less. Over 90 percent
of the State's municipalities reported immunization coverage above 90 percent for
children aged one year or less. Statewide, overall coverage rates are above 90 percent as
well.

Percent of underweight children. As described above, this indicator was not monitored
since improvements in prenatal coverage resulted in an inverse trend in the performance
towards the original target---the percent of underweight children actually increased.

Complete prenatal care attendance/number of births. Ninety four percent of the State's
municipalities met the target of providing 70% coverage of their applicable population
that received four or more prenatal visits. Overall for the State, 83 percent of the
applicable population received four or more prenatal visits, and 37 percent received seven
or more prenatal visits.

Confirmed cases of neonatal tetanus. There was only one case of neonatal tetanus
recorded in the State in 2008, up from none reported in 2007. Still, by far most of the
State's municipalities complied with this target, which is undoubtedly related to the
increase in prenatal care.

Percent of new TB cases cured. Providing a cure for 85 percent of new TB cases proved
to be one of the most challenging targets for the State especially since 2007, as only 26
percent of its municipalities were able to meet the target by 2008. Statewide, despite
steady progress from 2001, the percentage of new TB cases cured dropped steadily from
73 percent in 2005 to only 51 percent in 2008. Despite some incompatibility between
national data from the MOH and municipal data that the Project assisted in correcting,
TB continues to be clearly an issue in Bahia (and Brazil where nationwide there are an
estimated 129,000 new cases per year of which only 90,000, or 70 percent, are notified),
yet it is not clear whether the difficulties in complying with this target relate to large
increases in the incidence of TB or lack of follow-up with patients under treatment.

Detection Rate of Leprosy Cases.       After increasing sharply to 2.4 cases per 10,000
people in 2004, the State's detection rate of leprosy cases has declined continuously to
1.8 cases per 10,000 people in 2008. The percent of the State's municipalities that met
the target of one per 10,000 declined steadily to 60 percent in 2006 but then increased



                                           26
thereafter to 70 percent in 2008. Still, this figure masks wide variations among especially
smaller municipalities.

Hospitalization rate of ketoacidosis and diabetic coma. The hospitalization rate of
ketoacidosis and diabetic coma has declined consistently from 11 per 10,000 people in
2004 to 0.6 per 10,000 people in 2008 throughout the state. In parallel, the percent of
municipalities that met the target hospitalization rate of 0.3 per thousand increased from
56 percent in 2004 to 71 percent in 2008. Still, there is marked age distribution of
hospitalizations, with a high concentration among the population aged 50 and over, as
well as questions regarding the classification of causes of hospitalization. As mentioned
below, the Project financed a study to shed further light on this target.

Population covered by the Family Health Program. The percent of Bahia's population
covered by health teams under the Family Health Program increased steadily from 11
percent in 2001 to 54.2 percent in 2009. Eighty-six percent of the State's municipalities
met the target of providing coverage to over 35 percent of their populations. Family
Health Teams are responsible for providing basic health care within predefined areas of
at most 4000 inhabitants, and include at a minimum a medical doctor, a nurse, a nursing
assistant and a community health agent. Some include also a dentist and a dental
assistant. Still, the State faces challenges in providing coverage under the Family Health
Program both in urban areas, in part due to the existence of other already established
health care models, and in remote rural areas due to the difficulties of attracting and
retaining qualified medical staff. The Family Health Program in the Municipality of
Salvador, for example, covered only 13 percent of its population in 2008. In rural areas,
the Project had provided for the payment of two-year "incentives" to retain medical
doctors in remote areas. With experience, however, SESAB found that this system was
not addressing the issue satisfactorily as the staff would remain in those areas for two
years and a day, and then move. With assistance under the Project, SESAB promoted the
establishment of a foundation, Fundacao Estatal Saude da Familia-FESF, which
contracts medical staff to serve in interested, associated municipalities. FESF is
established, staffed and is contracting professional staff to assign to the Family Health
Teams in 2010. Already 69 municipalities have joined FESF, and another 273 have
signed protocols signaling their intention to join, representing in total over 65 percent of
Bahia's municipalities.

Analysis of the Findings. Over 65 percent of Bahia's municipalities complied with at
least seven of the nine targets in this composite index in 2009 (30%) of the state's
municipalities complied with at least eight of the original ten targets in this composite
index during the same period). As mentioned previously, this was a rather complicated
overall indicator, that started with ten individual indicators/targets, which themselves
depended on several factors (e.g., percent of new TB cases cured which is influenced not
only by cure rates but also the rate of new TB cases). The results of several of these
indicators themselves were likely directly attributable to the availability of the new
Family Health Teams.




                                            27
In general, the smaller municipalities, which showed the greatest progress in terms of
expanding coverage of the Family Health Program, performed significantly better than
their larger counterparts in terms of the percentage of them that met seven out of nine
targets (Table 4).    In fact, unlike their larger counterparts, it was easier for small
municipalities to meet coverage targets with only one or two Family Health Teams. Two
other targets, Complete Prenatal Care Attendance/Number of Births and Confirmed
Cases of Neonatal Tetanus, are also likely to be directly related to the expansion of
Family Health Teams in smaller municipalities, especially since these three targets are
those for which State achieved the best results over the Projects' implementation period.

       Table4. Indicator 1- Municipal Success Rates under Basic Performance
                                   Agreements

     Municipal             Number of        % of municipalities      % of municipalities
     Population           municipalitie       that achieved at       that achieved 7 or
                               s            least 6 of the targets   more of the targets
<25,000                      292                     82.9                   59.2
>25,000 and <50,000           85                     69.4                   37.6
>50,000 and                   25                     68.0                   24.0
<100,000
>100,000                        15                  60.0                     26.7
State                          417                                           51.6

The Project was least successful in making progress towards the following three targets:
Percent of New TB Cases Cured, Hospital Admissions due to Diarrheal Infections, and
Hospitalization Rate of Ketoacidosis and Diabetic Coma. These were all composite
indicators (i.e., with numerator and denominator), so the causes are not straightforward.
To address this in part, the Project financed two studies: a Study Validating Admissions
due to Diarrheal Infections, Acute Respiratory Infections and Ketoacidosis and Diabetic
Coma and a Study of Admissions for Conditions Responding to Primary Care.

The Study Validating Admissions due to Diarrheal Infections, Acute Respiratory
Infections and Ketoacidosis and Diabetic Coma was carried out in conjunction with the
audit team of the Federal SUS, and aimed to analyze the hospital admissions in the SUS
system with the referred diagnoses in selected municipalities in the State from 2005 to
2008. From a set of 20 municipalities sampled, the study found that 74 percent of
admissions due to respiratory infections were valid according to pre-defined
characteristics; yet only 25 percent of admissions for diarrheal infections were justified.
The findings with respect to ketoacidosis and diabetic coma were even more worrisome
in that only 17 percent of admissions were validated, possibly because of the greater
complexity in the diagnosis, or the profile of the hospital sampled, and were less
conclusive, in part because of problems with the sample size. The study concluded that
further work was needed to better define admission criteria and recording.

The Study of Admissions for Conditions Responding to Primary Care aimed to compare
the evolution of admissions in the State's macro regions from 2000 to 2008 and identify


                                            28
the most frequent causes of admissions that could be handled at the level of primary care
in those macro regions.

The study analyzed the data by diagnosis, age, region in the State, year of admission,
coverage of Family Health Program and population. The study found that:

   ·   There was a reduction of admissions for conditions responding to primary care
       from 211.1/10,000 inhabitants in 2000 to 163.7/10,000 inhabitants in 2008, but it
       is still higher than the national average of 149.6/10,000 inhabitants;

   ·   Although all of the macro regions in the State witnessed reductions in these
       admissions over the period, there were important disparities in the reductions
       among the macro regions: the Center-North macro region had an admission rate
       of 403/10,000 inhabitants in 2008 while the Eastern macro region had a rate of
       only 84/10,000 inhabitants during the same period (and showed the greatest
       decline from 2000 to 2008);

   ·   The admissions for conditions responding to primary care were also greatest
       among the elderly and especially among infants and young children, but the
       admission rates for these ages groups all showed significant declines during the
       2000 to 2008 period, while for other age groups they remained rather constant:
       Table 5. Admissions Rate for Conditions Responding to Primary Care

                                              Admissions Rate per 10,000
                                                      population
                  Age Group                      2000            2008
                  < 1 year old                  850.0           579.5
                  1 ­ 4 years old               373.6           332.6
                  5 ­ 9 years old                99.3           116.7
                  10 ­ 19 years old              51.3            53.2
                  20 ­ 49 years old              92.2            55.1
                  50 ­ 69 years old             280.3           166.3
                  70 + years old                709.1           493.1

   ·   Gastroenteritis, asthma and cardiac issues were the diagnoses that most resulted in
       admissions for conditions responding to primary care;
PDO 2: To reduce inequities in the allocation of publicly funded health care
services, as measured by differentials between per-capita region budgets

Although the Project's second objective was worded to measure its achievement in terms
of "differentials between per-capita regional budgets", the monitoring indicators selected
to measure the achievement of this objective were others, as described below, and
focused mainly on the de-concentration of resources away from Salvador towards the
state's other municipalities, as opposed to a more equitable distribution throughout all of
the State. The concentration of the state's public health expenditures in Salvador is


                                            29
reduced from 40% to 35%. From the start of the Project's implementation, there was
general agreement on the need to reduce the concentration of health spending in
Salvador, but confusion regarding how to interpret this specific indicator. Within a
federal system, where health care is financed by the three levels of government, it was
not clear whether this indicator referred to total health expenditures or those of the state
government, or whether this referred to health spending at all levels or at a specific level
of care. After several attempts to apply different interpretations, one of which in 2006
came to the conclusion that the target had been met, SESAB and the Bank agreed to
interpret the indicator to mean that it referred to the concentration of resources for
medium- and high-complexity care in Salvador in relation to the state as a whole.
However, SESAB later preferred to stop monitoring this indicator as it became clear that
it would be difficult to reach this target in full within the Project's implementation period
since it was the very activities supported by the Project that would contribute to the
achievement of the desired result.

In fact, all of the activities supported by the Project, and others directly by the state with
its own resources have been focused on decentralizing to the municipalities, and micro-
regions the responsibility for providing and managing health care services. However, this
required a lengthy up-front process that involved strengthening municipalities so that
they could achieve Gestão Plena, prepare approved investment and operational programs
under Termos de Compromisso de Gestão7 and also help the micro-regions (and macro-
regions) to establish the governance systems that they required to perform their function
as purchasers of health care services. Based on the progress in this process of
regionalization and devolution, SESAB is finalizing its Plano Diretor de Investimento,
which will in effect result in the deconcentration of resources for medium- and high-
complexity care from Salvador to the macro- and micro-regions. Under this plan,
Salvador would be limited to receiving 35 percent of the state's ceiling for these
resources, with the remainder to be distributed to municipalities that have established
health networks and signed Termos.

Most of the activities prioritized by SESAB, both with and without project financing, are
aimed at accelerating the deconcentration of resources for medium and high complexity
care away from Salvador, including: establishing new or expanding existing hospitals in
eight municipalities to offer a wider range of services, expanding capability for providing
emergency assistance in over 20 municipalities, improving and/or rehabilitating 42
regional hospitals, constructing five new regional hospitals, equipping the hospitals,
establishing and expanding regional reference centers in nine municipalities, establishing
52 specialized dental health care centers in 49 municipalities, constructing 25 municipal
reference laboratories, and training, among others. The capacity of the municipality of
Salvador is developed to the level required by national policies for Gestão Plena.



7
  The Termo de Compromisso de Gestão defines the objectives and targets, powers and
responsibilities of the municipality and the indicators that will be used to monitor and
evaluate performance under the agreement.



                                             30
When the Project was prepared, a large proportion of state's health care services were
being provided in Metropolitan Salvador, in public hospitals run directly by SESAB and
by private hospitals selling services to SESAB. Salvador had not developed the capacity
to manage health care, which resulted in SESAB having had to concentrate much of its
efforts on the direct provision of health care services in the capital. The Municipality of
Salvador and SESAB had agreed in early 2003 upon an Action Plan aimed at
strengthening the municipality's capacity to achieve Gestão Plena and manage its health
care services, and the municipality was to receive assistance under the Project to
implement the Action Plan. Under the Project, the municipality only received assistance
for structuring its Fundo Municipal de Saúde (Municipal Health Fund), one of the main
prerequisites for managing its health care services. The other activities included in the
Action Plan with SESAB were to be financed under a large contract which took over two
years awaiting approval by the Procuradoria Geral do Estado in Bahia, and which was
eventually excluded from the Project. In the end, the Municipality of Salvador carried
out the activities included in the Action Plan with its own resources and with assistance
from the Ministry of Health, and achieved Gestão Plena in February, 2006. To achieve
this, the Secretaria de Saude of the Municipality established internal working groups to
address: (i) regulation; (ii) structuring the Municipal Health Fund; (iii) licensing; (iv)
preparation/revision of the PPI for medium and high complexity; (v) monitoring and
evaluation; and (vi) restructuring of its unit responsible for environmental health. It
subsequently received assistance from the Federal University of Bahia to: (i) prepare it
multiyear investment plan (Plano Diretor Plurianual); (ii) reorganize its system of
surveillance; (iii) improve its management information system; and (iv) develop
assistance protocols. The Municipality has since established a reference system, although
it is still in its initial stages and used only to program diagnostic tests and elective
surgery.

PDO 3: to improve the efficiency and quality in the use of public resources, as
measured by the implementation of regulation systems mandated by national
policies

At least five health micro-regions purchase services worth 10% or more of the budget of
participating municipalities and will audit the provision of care.

The Project had an important positive impact on the decentralization and regionalization
of health care services in Bahia, while ensuring the delivery of quality services
efficiently. At the time it was prepared, there was a growing concern that the
decentralization of responsibility of health care delivery, including high complexity care,
to the municipalities would result in increasing inefficiencies due to the loss of
economies of scale, increasing costs due to the need to duplicate administrative functions
in all municipalities, and problems in delivering high quality services across the State
given the varying technical and administrative capacity of Bahia's 417 municipalities. At
first, the Project had contemplated the establishment of five multi-municipal health
micro-regions to which federal funds for Complex Care could be allocated following a
participatory process through the Programacão Pactuada e Integrada-PPI,
Intergovernmental Budget Programming). The Project was to support this process



                                            31
through financing for the initial operating costs of the local governments, design and
establishment of planning and budget processes at the micro-regional level, seminars and
training for staff of the municipal secretariats of health, and visits to other states that had
already established health micro-regions.

For a micro-region to be considered established, several criteria had to be met, including:
a) the head office of the micro-region, the Município Pólo, had to have achieved Gestao
Plena; b) all of the municipalities in the micro-region had to count on federal funding for
medium complexity care; c) ten percent or more of those federal funds had to be
transferred directly to the municipality(ies) in Gestão Plena; and d) a system of audits
had to be established in all of the municipalities in the micro-region, following agreed
requirements.

Bahia's Plano Diretor de Regionalizacão-PDR, the instrument that establishes the
subdivision of health services along territorial lines had been prepared in 2001, and
subsequently updated in 2003, 2004 and 2007 taking into consideration factors such as
availability of health care services, implementation capacity, and distance among the
state's 417 municipalities. The latest PDR, approved in 2008, divides the state in nine
macro-regions, each with a head office in a municipality with Gestão Plena, and 28
micro-regions (Annex 3). The State attempted to establish a correspondence between the
service delivery regions (the micro-regions) and the administrative regions of SESAB's
Regional Offices, the DIRES, but this was not possible in all cases. The new PDR
identified gaps in service delivery throughout the state, and prioritized support under the
Project toward the municipios polo through financing of both technical assistance and
equipment for medium complexity care to strengthen their ability to provide this level of
service delivery in their jurisdictions. To date, nine micro-regions have been formally
established, and are administering at least 10 percent of the budget for medium and high
complexity care for the municipalities in the region.

The agreements for delivery of medium complexity care envisaged the establishment of a
ranked, regional, integrated, accessible and efficient network of service providers, based
on the PDR and identified gaps, with agreements on the allocation of resources for
medium and high complexity health care defined in the PPI, and investment priorities
defined in the Plano Diretor de Investimentos-PDI. The State, under the Project,
provided resources for the establishment of Colegiados de Gestão Microrregional-
CGMR, units comprising representatives of municipal health secretariats in the respective
region and representatives of SESAB, with the objective of strengthening the
administration of micro-regions through a regional planning process that defines the
responsibility of each entity, the proposal for the PPI, the design of a regulatory process,
and the investment priorities, and supports individual municipalities in their own
programming.

The PPI is the main instrument that guides the reorganization of Bahia's health service
delivery model, within the overall context of Brazil's federal SUS. It defines the network
of services, flow and level of funding to each municipality; as such, it reflects the
aggregate of the Pactos de Gestão for all of the state's municipalities. For medium and



                                              32
high complexity care, the PPI reflects the agreements among the various municipalities
with respect to access to services and compensation, and covers ambulatory and hospital
services, surveillance and epidemiology and disease control, thereby ensuring access to
health care services either in one's own municipality or through referral to others. Since
Bahia's last PPI was developed in 2003, and important changes have taken place in the
structure of the health networks, the State is currently in the process of updating this
framework document, through a participatory process, decentralized to its municipalities
and subject to agreement at the micro-regional level through the respective CGMR. In
this way, the State views the PPI not simply as a static document that would tend to
become obsolete shortly after being finalized, but as a real-time process that is constantly
adjusted and updated, and that serves not only to establish health care priorities, but to
promote the institutional strengthening of the various levels and establish effective and
efficient working relationships among them.

The establishment of micro-regions, charged with new responsibilities, resulted in the
need for a strong system of audits to ensure that this new regionalization was contributing
to an improvement in the delivery of health care and a more efficient and transparent use
of resources, in accordance with the PPI. Since 2008, different types of audits, including
operational audits, audits of service provision for medium and high complexity care in
micro-regions, audits of compliance with agreed results, and financial audits. In all,
3,630 audits of different types were carried out in different micro-regions.

At least five high complexity interventions are regulated with transparency in the
assignment of resources to interventions and patients. The Project had originally
contemplated the establishment of one Regulation Center for high complexity care that
would regulate at least five high complexity interventions at the state level. As
implementation progressed, SESAB opted to equate the process of regulation to its
regionalization plan and delivery networks, thereby establishing not only a Regulation
Center in Salvador, which is currently operated by SESAB, but also seven Regional
Regulation Centers in the head offices of the macro-regions. The Central Regulation
Center in Salvador is currently regulating and channeling emergency and high-
complexity cases within Salvador for oncology, nephrology, cardiology, maternal-child
health, ophthalmology and neurology. It currently receives about 600 requests per day
from across the state, of which about 110 patients are assigned to available and qualified
providers. The unit has a staff of about 400 employees, including medical doctors,
telephone operators, and administrative staff who cover the Center's operation around the
clock. Waiting lists for patients awaiting care in the above specialties have been
compiled, but have not been published pending the resolution of patient privacy and
moral issues. Seven Regional Regulation Centers have been constructed and equipped,
and a centralized information system that prioritizes referrals based on need and medical
urgency, and allows for entering follow-up information and compensation among the
referee and the service provider has been developed and will be accessible across all of
the centers. The Municipal Regulation Center in Salvador is also functioning for
diagnostic exams and elective surgery, assigning the patient a specific date, time and
service provider, establishing a process to pre-approve the desired service, and reducing
patient waiting times.



                                            33
SESAB's future plans are to make the remaining Regional Centers fully operational as a
conduit for channeling high and medium complexity cases to the Central Regulation
Center, and as a regulator for medium complexity cases, fully integrated into a statewide
regulation network.

The role of the State Health Secretary in direct provision of services is reduced by
limiting the number of small hospitals under its direct control to no more than 10.

Within the context of its new PDR and its new health care networks, SESAB was to
reduce its role as a provider of health care services in order to consolidate its role as a
regulator of health care. As part of this strategy, the state has sought to strengthen
hierarchical regional hospital networks with differing levels of attention and
specialization. To implement this strategy, it was to transfer the responsibility for
providing services at a basic level to municipalities, either for their direct administration,
or through contracting out to private or social organizations, and consolidate the larger
hospital units as reference hospitals that were capable of providing specialized and high
complexity care, either regional in the macroregions or at the state level. The strategy of
reducing SESAB's role as a provider of health services under the Project was
complemented by a decree issued by the Ministry of Health in 2004 that established a
National Policy for Small Hospitals8, which aimed to make the use of these hospitals
more efficient as the backstop for the Family Health Teams and adjust their financial and
administrative model accordingly. By 2007, 50 percent of Bahia's small hospitals were
already complying with the National Policy. Although this process was carried out in
parallel to other project-financed activities---the Project financed only minor technical
assistance to strengthen the process of contracting out management of the small hospitals-
--SESAB was able to identify the small hospitals that it would transfer to municipalities,
or contract out. By completion, SESAB had under its control only eight hospitals with
under 50 beds.9

3.3 Efficiency

During preparation, the Project's cost-benefit analysis (Benefit/Cost Index of 3.84)
estimated that it would result in substantial savings for the sector, primarily through
reductions in hospitalization costs. The Project was expected to result in reduced
hospitalizations due to: (a) greater capacity to resolve medical needs at the local level,
thus reducing referrals to hospitals; (b) reduced risk factors in the target population that
increases the demand for hospitalization; (c) reduced administrative costs; (d) reduced

8
    The Federal Government defined small hospitals in its Ministerial Decree as those with less than 30 beds.

9
 SESAB is still managing health care in three small hospitals (Hospital Especializado Mário Leal, Hospital
Especializado Dom Rodrigo de Menezes and Hospital Geral de Jermoabo) and has contracted out the
management of five additional small hospitals that are still under its responsibility (Hospital Santa Rita de
Cássia, Hospital Regional de Castro Alves, Hospital Deputado Luis Eduardo Magalhães, Hospital Regional
de Ibotirama, and Hospital São Jorge)



                                                      34
hospitalization costs due to increased efficiency of health networks as a result of
improved management practices, and (e) more efficient and higher quality primary care
centers. Indirect benefits, in terms of Disability-Adjusted Life Years were also calculated.
The sensitivity analysis showed that the effect of delays would affect expected returns
significantly less than a reduction in expected benefits.

A final Cost/Benefit Analysis was not prepared for the ICR, but an analysis of the
assumptions in the earlier Analysis against some of the Project's results is described
below. The Project suffered a one and one half year delay in completion. Still, although
the full impact of the Project's activities is yet to materialize, its impact on reducing
hospitalizations was impressive: hospitalizations due to all causes that could be treated at
primary health care facilities were reduced by 22 percent, and the total rate of
hospitalizations was reduced by 16 percent over the Project's implementation period.

In addition, several activities supported by the Project increased the efficiency with
which the state and municipalities deliver health services, and the quality with which they
are delivered. SESAB reduced its involvement in the operation of small hospitals,
presumably increasing its operational efficiency. A strengthening of the Basic Pharmacy
Program under Component III resulted in the preparation of a list of essential medicines
and its dissemination and training for medical professionals in its use, the establishment
of a program of periodic home delivery of essential medicines to persons with diabetes
and hypertension prescribed through the Family Health Teams, the establishment of a
computerized, web-based system to manage the procurement and storage of
pharmaceuticals and their distribution to municipalities under agreements with SESAB
and prescription to the population which are included in a cadastre, the selective
deconcentration of some pharmaceuticals to the DIRES based on demand and
centralization of the others in a central warehouse near Salvador's airport10. SESAB has
established a web-based computer system for procurement and management of
pharmaceuticals, building on and feeding into a system created by the Federal
Government--Sistema Integrado de Gerenciamento da Assistencia Farmaceutica,
SIGAF, and is currently training municipalities in the use of the system. The
procurement system for pharmaceuticals, which operates similar to a pregao eletronico---
where the system provides a ceiling based on registered contracts of previous purchases
by states/municipalities throughout the country, and calls for bids below this ceiling---
resulted in savings of approximately R$18 million (approximately US$10 million) in
2009 alone.




10
   Under the Project, SESAB was to decentralize the stock and management of pharmaceutical to micro-
regions. However, SESAB carried out a feasibility study that determined that the indiscriminate
decentralization of all pharmaceuticals would result in increased costs due to the need for locations,
security and staffing. SESAB instead opted for the approach described in this section for the time being,
and will carefully evaluate a process of gradual decentralization to municipalities where justified.



                                                    35
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Project's Overall Outcome is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. Its continued
relevance is unquestionable since it supported the State in establishing and strengthening
its health care delivery system to the federal mandate, taking into account local state
priorities and conditions. The fact that some flexibility was built into the Project's
implementation, only served to strengthen its continued relevance (e.g., selection of
municipalities that would receive subprojects based on the Indice de Desenvolvimento
Humano as opposed to the IGDS, introducing the FESF, etc.).

By and large, the Project achieved, or because of important delays in its early
implementation, is expected to achieve most if not all of its development objectives.
There were some shortfalls, problems with the definition of indicators towards which
progress in the achievement of objectives was to be measured, and delays that resulted in
slower implementation of the new service delivery and regulation model. However,
some activities are still underway, at this stage with local funding, and are expected to
become operational in the near future (e.g., the full operation of all regulation centers for
which construction of some is nearing completion). The Project, therefore, has either
already achieved or is expected soon to achieve its objectives with only moderate
shortcomings.

Despite delays, the Project was able to achieve its results with efficiency, as judged by
the assumptions made during its preparation, and on increased efficiency in the
procurement and distribution of pharmaceuticals alone. Other accomplishments, such as
the reduction of SESAB's role in the operation of hospitals also contributed to efficiency.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Although it is difficult to establish that the Project's benefits actually reached previously-
excluded populations, there was, and is, a strong presumption that any progress in the
agreed indicators are concentrated among the excluded, especially since the rest of the
population already had access to basic services. The Government's focus initially on 78
municipalities with the lowest Human Development Index, although a slight deviation
from the Subproject selection methodology that had been part of the Project's design,
reinforces the Project's poverty focus.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

By design and through the activities that it supported, the Project had a major impact on
the institutional structure for delivery of Basic Health Care services in Bahia.
Specifically, it supported the State in establishing the institutional structure capable of
delivering those services within the framework of the federally-mandated Norma


                                              36
Operacional de Assistencia de Saude, NOAS which required: (i) an expansion in the
basic package and in capitation payments; (ii) the creation of micro-regions and the use
of transparent systems for the distribution of federal resources for Complex Care; (iii) the
establishment of more transparent systems to manage care at the local level based on the
use of networks; and (iv) the state to become responsible for monitoring and evaluating
the performance of municipalities in the implementation of key health programs.

The Project supported the State of Bahia in establishing the institutional structure it
required to implement the NOAS, which was virtually non-existent at the time of
preparation. Bahia had one of the country's worst coverage rates of Family Health
Teams: only 11 percent of its population was covered. Today, the Family Health Teams
in the state cover almost 55 percent of Bahia's population. With a full 2,470 Family
Health Teams operating in the State, Bahia has the largest number of these teams in the
Northeast Region, and the third largest in Brazil. At the time, only 19 of Bahia's
municipalities had achieved Gestão Plena, making them responsible for managing
federal transfers for medium complexity care. Today, most of Bahia's municipalities
have achieved Gestão Plena. The state was only starting to establish micro-regions, but
little had been done in terms of implementation. Today, the State is divided into 9
macro-regions and 28 micro-regions, with already-established networks that are being
consolidated and strengthened through the carrying out of a new PPI that will cement the
relationships for financing and service delivery, including regulation systems for medium
complexity care and referral systems that prioritize access to complex care, among the
municipalities in those regions. SESAB's role has been redefined from one of managing
federal funds and providing services through state hospitals to one of policy maker and
overseer of quality. It oversees the consolidation of the participatory PPI, and the
corresponding investment plan, and has in place an established system whereby it can
monitor progress against targets in Pactos, and provide support to those municipalities
that require it. SESAB has divested itself of several small hospitals, which had
previously created and administrative burden that precluded it from focusing its efforts on
its new responsibilities. Through technical assistance provided in the context of
implementation of Subprojects, and directly through training and seminars, municipalities
have been strengthened to assume their responsibilities for Basic Care and for working
together within the new regionalized structure. Finally, the establishment of FESF
presents an important effort to address issues identified under the Project's
implementation that affected adversely the delivery of Basic Care in some of the State's
most remote and poorer municipalities (and others).

While many of the activities supported by the Project are a "work in progress"--and
should continue to be so indefinitely as the State adapts to and adjusts this new model of
service delivery--there is one area that remains to be addressed in relation to the role of
the DIRES, SESAB's Regional Offices. Within the framework of the State's new
regionalization for health, the responsibilities of these Regional Offices need to be
modified; SESAB is in the process working on this redefinition




                                            37
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Faced with an outbreak of dengue fever in 2009 that affected mostly children in the state,
SESAB requested the Bank agreement to use project funding to finance its Emergency
Dengue Response. As this was directly related to Basic Health Care, the Project's
primary focus, the Bank agreed to finance information technology and medical
equipment, materials, pharmaceuticals and ambulances to assist the state's municipalities
in treating those affected by dengue.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to Low

The Risk to Development Outcome is considered negligible to low. As mentioned
earlier, the Project supported the State of Bahia to establish and strengthen its
institutional structure to that required by a federally mandated regulation (NOAS), in
what was unquestionably the Governments' (federal, state and municipal) program.
While undoubtedly there may be adjustments at the margin to reflect experience as
implementation of the NOAS progresses, the State has formally adopted its regional
structure through the recent PDR, and through the processes that formalize the
functioning of health care service delivery through the PPI, the PDI, and Pactos with
municipalities. The Family Health Program is a federally-funded program, and it is very
difficult to imagine that the progress the State has achieved in expanding coverage could
be reversed, although, again, it may well be likely, that adjustments could be made in the
future to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of this program (such as the
establishment of the FESF). This overall framework is not considered something that
SESAB or the State could or would modify on its own initiative, even if the State's
administration were to change. Further deepening and continued implementation of
activities begun under the Project are very high on SESAB's priorities, and will, in part,
be supported by the proposed Health and Water SWAp, now in final stages of
preparation.

The financial viability of the Project is virtually guaranteed as funding is provided from
federal, state and municipal sources. From 2003 to 2009, the State increased its financing
for Basic Health Care. Popular support for improving access to quality health care is
generally a given, so it is difficult to see that social impacts would be anything but
positive. Finally, in its operations, SESAB has focused increasingly on environmental
aspects of health care, not just with regard to medical wastes, but also in establishing
protocols and initiatives with other Secretariats, such as Infrastructure and Environment,
on issues of environmental health and water, respectively.




                                           38
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Bank performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The
Project's approach was strategic, timely in terms of response, grounded in extensive
research, sector work and consultations, and in terms of the Bank's CAS and strategic
priority to provide assistance to Bahia within the framework of a State CAS and
incorporated lessons learned from previous operations. The Project was well contained,
and documented, with detailed analysis on institutional aspects, implementation
arrangements, safeguard and fiduciary aspects. The Bank mobilized a US$200,000
Japanese Grant and a US$23,000 grant from the Spanish Trust Fund to assist the
Borrower with preparation.

The main shortcomings of the Project's Quality at Entry would probably not have been
seen as shortcomings at the time it was prepared, namely, the Monitoring and Evaluation
Arrangements, the Risk Assessment, and the state of preparation. The Project's expected
outcome (or intermediate) outcome indicators by which progress towards its
Development Objectives were to be monitored were complex, detailed and contained
some indicators turned out to be flawed. This created substantial discussion between PIU
and the Bank throughout supervision. Second, the Project's Risk Assessment, despite
rating the Project's risk as substantial---even being significantly less comprehensive than
a Risk Assessment which would be required today--failed to identify several critical risks
that came to affect the Project practically throughout most of its implementation: change
in administration and the consequent impact that staffing changes (among others) would
have on the Project, and the risk of delays in procurement due to various reasons.
Finally, by today's standards, project preparation was not complete at the time it was
considered by the Bank's Board: the Operational Manual was not ready, the Project's
Implementation Plan had not been finalized; staff of the PIU were not on Board, terms-
of-reference for key consultancies had not been prepared, etc.

The fact that the Project had been prepared by one administration and the Bank's loan
was considered by the Board shortly after a change of that state administration, coupled
with the issues described above, doomed the Project to implementation issues until 2007.
Perhaps it was overly ambitious to have prepared a Project that was so well defined, and
rather ambitious at that, so soon before a change in Government and consequent changes
in project staffing.

Overall, the Project's design, and the Bank's support in preparation were very thorough.
A lot of effort went into analysis, responding to the State's strategic priorities, perhaps
even too much to the detriment of other aspects of preparation needed for a ready
implementation and a bit more flexibility which could perhaps have set the Project off to
a better start.


                                            39
Recognizing that the Bank's standard for "readiness for implementation" have become
much more stringent, and the sheer amount of analysis that went into the Project's design
as a responsive instrument to the Borrower's priorities, the Project is rated Moderately
Satisfactory rating for Quality at Entry.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank's Performance in Quality of Supervision is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.
This rating is based on separating the Bank's supervision into two distinct periods: the
first from consideration of the Project by the Bank's Board until about 2006 and the
second from 2006 until Project Completion. During the first period, the Bank's Quality
of Supervision is considered Moderately Unsatisfactory, and during the second period,
Satisfactory. Perhaps because of the issues with the lack of readiness for implementation
and a new administration taking over from the one that had prepared the Project and
change in or absence of project staffing described above, the Project got off to a rough
start. Bank supervision, which had resulted in changes in the Task Manager, lacked a
pragmatic results focus, was by the book, and was not able to identify actions and
strategies to get the Project off the ground or how to adjust the Project in a way that
would ensure its implementation. This, of course, was not made easier by what had been
the change in administration, and the fact that incoming officials apparently had a
different vision of the Project from that which had been prepared. Delays in procurement
mounted, with the exception of Subprojects under Component III, implementation never
really got off the ground, and little proactive action was taken by the Bank's supervision
other than providing specialized training on fiduciary procedures. And despite growing
signs of imminent and growing problems with implementation, Bank supervision
followed a twice yearly, business as usual pattern, and Bank's Implementation Status
Reports, despite detailed explanations regarding progress, were slow to downgrade
ratings to reflect issues with implementation.

Starting in about 2006, with another change in Task Manager, a renewed vigor was
brought into the Bank's supervision. Despite initial delays resulting from yet another
electoral process in the State that led to another change in administration in 2007, the
Bank's supervision immediately took on a results focus, with emphasis on getting
monitoring and evaluation up and running and the basis of focusing discussions regarding
the Project's progress. Discussions of project restructuring began almost immediately, in
an effort to adjust the Project to the Borrower's priorities. Although a formal
restructuring of the Project, including adjustments to the monitoring indicators that had
been established would have been preferable, there was agreement with the Borrower that
given the priority of moving ahead and the limited time remaining for the Project, any
adjustments would have to be made within the framework of the Project that had been
considered by the Bank's Board and approved by the Federal Government, the Guarantor
of the Bank's Loan, to avoid further delays. The Bank took a rather pragmatic approach
to the Project, facilitating minor adjustments to activities the Project financed so long as
they were within the framework of the development objectives of the Project that had
been prepared. As mentioned earlier, the Bank's assistance took on somewhat of a


                                            40
SWAp-type character in support of SESAB's program. Bank supervision intensified
dramatically during this period, which, together with the renewed priority that SESAB
had assigned to get the Project---and their Program---underway, resulted in the
achievement, or expected achievement of its Development Objectives.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory, based on the Moderately
Satisfactory ratings for both Quality at Entry and Quality of Supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Government Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. For purposes of this rating,
Government is taken to mean the State Government (the Borrower, including SESAB)
and to a lesser extent the Federal Government (the Guarantor) since responsibility for
financing and regulating health care in Brazil is shared among three levels of
government. Throughout preparation, the Borrower was extremely committed to the
Project and its Development Objectives. It was unquestionably the Government's
project, or better, a project that supported the Government's Health System Reform in the
State that would structure it to the federal mandate. The Government's commitment was
formalized in a Policy Letter that was submitted to the Bank in the context of preparation
(and included in the PAD), and with an internal agreement between the State Government
and the Municipality of Salvador. Throughout changes in administrations in the State
Government, there was never a questioning of the Project's Development Objectives, but
rather considerations as to how best to achieve them (e.g., selecting municipalities on the
basis of one index or another).

The main issues that surfaced with respect to the Government's performance, and that
had a major adverse impact on implementation through 2007, related to the State
Government's ability to address issues in a timely fashion (e.g., hire needed staff, prepare
Terms-of-Reference, manage the procurement process, etc.). The State's Procuradoria
had to approve most contracting, which compounded the delays caused by a slow process
in SESAB. Several contracts were dropped and studies in the end not financed by the
Project (but with own resources) such as the support that was to have been provided to
strengthen the Municipality of Salvador. With so many procedural implementation issues
to address, it was difficult for the State to focus on monitoring by results.

The change in administration in 2007, coupled with the realization that the Project had
little time remaining, brought renewed vigor to the State's implementation and focus.
Building on what had been started earlier, project supervision, both by the State and the
Bank took on a true results-focus. An approach of evaluation, of understanding what was


                                            41
working and what was not, was adopted, with the result that the Project was able to
gradually adjust its activities and priorities to achieve desired results. The change in the
reporting relationship of the PIU to one linked directly to the Secretary of Health's
Office, strengthened the PIU and its ability to tackle implementation issues. An
agreement was made that only selected contracts would need the approval of
Procuradoria. The PIU was adequately staffed, with professionals experienced in the
design and implementation of development projects.

Throughout, both the Federal and State Government's provided the financial resources
needed for project execution, as mandated in the Government's laws and regulations for
health care financing.

Perhaps one issue that made financial cost estimation and implementation programming
difficult was the strong appreciation of the Brazilian Real vis-à-vis the US$. During
preparation, the exchange rate was R$3.20/US$1. At project completion, this rate was
around R$1.8/US$1. This can be hardly seen as negative in terms of the enabling
environment since it reflects the strengthening of the macroeconomic environment during
the Project's implementation period, and since the Project was financing the
Government's ongoing program, the State absorbed the additional financing required.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Implementing Agency(ies) Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. For purposes
of this rating, Implementing Agency(ies) is taken to mean municipalities that
implemented subprojects, and in general assumed new responsibilities and the
Municipality of Salvador (although it was not defined as an implementing agency, per
se). Bahia's 417 municipalities vary greatly in size (both area, rural vs. urban, and
population), capacity, and health care needs. Throughout implementation, several issues
arose with respect to their implementation capacity especially in the Project's final phase
of implementation: (a) a lack of qualified technical and administrative staff; (b) delays,
by the Municipalities, in formalizing Subproject Agreements; (c) delays in releasing
funds to Municipalities due to their lack of compliance with or delay in submission of
required accounting, monitoring and other documentation; (d) delays in implementation
due to municipal elections in 2004 and d2008; (e) excessive staff rotation, including
medical doctors and other medical professionals; and (f) difficulties in access to some
municipalities (road conditions, etc.) which made difficult the work of contractors and of
providing training to professional and other municipal staff. Until about 2006, SESAB
had difficulties in structuring its assistance to municipalities to address these issues.
From 2007 onwards, SESAB focused on structuring a process of providing technical
support, intensified technical supervision, adjusted its process for disbursing funds to
municipalities, utilized the DIRES to provide more hands-on support, and took other
initiatives that aimed to focus its support on results, including the use of its catalytic role
to promote the establishment of the FESF.




                                              42
The Municipality of Salvador can also be considered an implementing agency, especially
since the Project's objectives, and two intermediate outcome indicators, required a
redefinition of its role within the framework of health care delivery in Bahia. Although
the State and the Municipality of Salvador had signed an Action Plan in early 2003 that
reflected the priority actions that the Municipality needed to address to achieve Gestao
Plena, the activities that supported these actions under the Project were apparently to be
implemented by SESAB as there was no formal agreement under the Project (other than
the Action Plan) for transfer of funds and implementation requirements to the
Municipality. In the end, Salvador counted on financial assistance under the Project for
only the structuring of its Municipal Health Fund, one of the preconditions for achieving
Gestao Plena. All of the other activities it needed to comply with the Action Plan were
supported by the Federal Government, the Universidade Federal da Bahia, or with its
own resources

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory, based on the Moderately
Satisfactory ratings for both Government Performance and Implementing Agency(ies)
Performance. Both these individual ratings and the overall Borrower Performance rating
reflect more of a time dimension to implementation experience, as opposed to shortfalls
in certain key areas throughout implementation11.

6. Lessons Learned

The Project's implementation offers several lessons:


     · Timing of Bank Assistance: While many factors go into the decision as to when
     the Bank submits a project for consideration by its Board, the timing of that
     approval vis-à-vis the timing of a Borrower's electoral process can have a major
     impact on implementation, even when the change in administration does not result
     in a different vision of a project, its objectives or activities to achieve them. The
     staffing changes that often result are enough to set a project off to a difficult start,
     and the difficulties are only exacerbated when a project is not fully prepared and
     ready for implementation and when a project's description is very "rigid". This
     becomes even more complex when a project is implemented by more than one level
     of government--in this case state and municipal--with different electoral periods.



      If ratings were to be assigned to different periods of preparation and implementation, the rating for
    preparation would be satisfactory, for early implementation either unsatisfactory or moderately
    unsatisfactory, and for implementation from 2007 onwards, satisfactory.




                                                   43
· Monitoring Indicators: Close attention needs to be given to developing a
project's results framework to define targets in terms of what can be reasonably
attributable to the project's actions. Similarly, it is important to be careful with
indicators that due to other actions under the project will show results that are
opposite to what would be expected (e.g., the results for the indicator on
underweight births increased instead of decreasing as the result of better prenatal
care). It is probably best to avoid composite indicators (e.g., percent of new TB
cases cured), since it can become difficult to establish realistic targets when the
denominator increases dramatically for reasons that cannot be controlled by the
project. Finally, it is important to define monitoring indicators clearly to eliminate
the need for interpretation of what is being measured (e.g., the indicator on
concentration of resources in the Municipality of Salvador).



· Project Restructuring: The Bank's policy for Project Restructuring offers a
vehicle for adjusting project activities and indicators when implementation
experience shows that either there was a problem with the original definition, or
there is a need to adjust them to realistically achieve the project's Development
Objectives. Despite the flexibility that has been introduced into the process
recently, formal restructuring is not always seen as feasible because of the time and
approval processes involved, both on the side of governments and of the Bank. This
was the case for this project, when, at the time, restructuring was being considered a
possibility. There needs to be either a more flexible vehicle for adjusting project
indicators and activities, both in the Bank and in Governments, or an attempt to
define project objectives and indicators in more general, flexible manner so that
activities and indicators can be adapted and adjusted without the need for formal
restructuring, all within the framework of governments' and the Bank's
requirements.



· Providing Assistance within a Federal Framework: Providing assistance
within a federal framework, such as that under the Project, whereby public health
care is a shared responsibility among federal, state and municipal governments
presents interesting challenges. The Federal Government in its normative and
financing roles has an important influence on establishing the responsibilities,
policies and financing of the lower levels of government. When the Bank finances
projects directly at the state level, in Brazil and elsewhere, it is important to
consider that the Federal Government can, and often does, exercise its right to
introduce programs, policies, requirements and adjustments to the existing
framework. The Bank has extensive experience with providing finance for federal
health programs that channel funds to states and municipalities through the Federal
Government. The financing of projects at the state level, with lending directly to
the State Government, implies that there is an exogenous factor that can affect the
enabling environment in which the project is implemented, e.g., the federal


                                      44
      government. This did not affect implementation of this project adversely, but it is
      conceivable that in other cases it could have. In several instances the State had to
      comply with requirements under the Project that were different than those that were
      mandated by the Federal Government (e.g., the Federal Government defines "small
      hospital" as those with less than 30 beds whereas the Project's definition was less
      than 50 beds, different monitoring indicators, etc.), and in others had to adapt
      project activities or monitoring to comply with new requirements. Again, this was
      not detrimental to the Project, per se, but does confirm the advantages of defining
      Bank assistance around and in terms of Government programs (such as under a
      SWAp), especially those at the state and municipal levels, to both minimize the
      burden on an executing agency by not requiring compliance of differing
      requirements, and more importantly, to maintain the relevance of a project
      throughout its implementation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The borrower provided comments on the ICR on letter sent on May 17, 2010. The
comments are included in Annex 7.

SESAB in its document elaborates around indicators that were not achieved. This
discussion already takes place in the ICR. For example, the explanation for dropping
indicator 6 in Trigger 1 ­ percent of underweight children has been fully justified.

SESAB also calls attention that changes in data collection affected the final
measurements. Still, some indicators (like new cured cases of TB), independently of data
collection remain a challance for the state.

SESAB also calls attention to a more flexible Bank's policy on the review of indicators.
The experience in the project demonstrates that some flexible procedure (whith out re-
structuring) could be beneficial.

SESAB clarifies that the auditors to the projects were SESAB auditors and not Federal
auditors.

Finally, the rating established by the Bank, moderately satisfactory, is the same than the
rating presented by SESAB in the INVESTIGAÇÃO A: CARACTERÍSTICAS DA
GESTÃO DO PROJETO SAÚDE BAHIA which conclusions are in page 71.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                           45
Annex 1. Project Costs by Component and Category and Project Financing



(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                     Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate
            Components
                                       (USD millions)           (USD millions)
 IMPLEMENTATION OF HEALTH
                                                                        18.3
MICRO-REGIONS                              17.6
 STRENGTHENING CAPACITY IN
                                                                         7.1
SESAB                                       6.4
 EXPANSION OF BASIC CARE                   20.8                         21.5
 PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                     2.1                          2.8

Total Baseline Cost                        46.9                         49.7
Physical Contingencies
                                            1.3                          0.0
Price Contingencies
                                            1.5                          0.0
Total Project Costs                        49.7                         49.7
Front-end fee PPF                           0.0                          0.0
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.3                          0.3
Total Financing Required                   50.0                         50.0


(b) By Category of expenses
  Category                     Category Description                        USD
      1      Works (other than for Subprojects)                            852,925
      2      Goods (other than for Subprojects)                          5,595,501
      3      Consultants' services (other than for Subprojects)          3,628,341
      4      Training (other than for Subprojects)                       1,043,144
      5      Subprojects                                                15,874,072
     6(a)    Incremental operating costs: Technical Services               954,807
             Incremental operating costs: Other Incremental Operating
    6(b)                                                                 1,751,207
             Costs
      7      Unallocated                                                         0
      8      Front End Fee                                                 300,000
      9      Premia for Interest Rate Caps and Interest Rate Collars             0
             Total Disbursed and Original Loan Amount                   30,000,000




                                          46
(c) Project Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                       millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                               20.00         0.00       0.00
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                        30.00        0.00        0.00
and Development




                                               47
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Project Activities

Outputs that led to the Achievement of the Project's Results



The above results were achieved through the implementation of the Project's four
components during its six year implementation. The activities carried out are described
below, in relation to the original expectations.



Component 1: Implementation of Health Micro-Regions

Output Indicators:

       ·   Five micro-regions implemented

       ·   New contracting system for health services tested

       ·   Municipal skills required for Gestao Plena developed in Salvador and five
           município polo



Strengthening management and governance of micro-regions. The Project supported
activities aimed at decentralizing medium-complexity health care to a larger number of
municipalities while promoting service efficiency, equity in access, quality and
developing reference centers among the different levels of service to reduce the
fragmentation of health services while rationalizing the use of resources. An initial
activity was the consolidation of a Regional Development Plan (the Plano Diretor de
Regionalizacao, PDR) that addressed implementation of the plan for medium complexity
care (Programacao Pacutado Integrada de Media Complexidade, PPI). Under the PDR,
municipalities are responsible for basic health care for its residents, and for referring
medium complexity health care needs to micro regional polos. The Pacto de Gestao that
redefined the State's role along these lines, and its responsibility for providing technical
and operational support to its municipalities was issued in early 2006. In 2007, SESAB
expanded upon previous efforts with and aim to: redesign the PDR along the lines of
nine macro regions, each with a municipio polo that would be strengthened to achieve
Gestao Plena, prepare plans for reference centers for medium complexity health care,
develop a new PPI and related investment plan, develop plans for regulating the macro




                                            48
and micro regions and establish a continuous training program for municipalities and
polos.


While some progress was made towards the activities originally included to strengthen
the management and governance of the micro regions that during implementation were
substituted by nine macro regions, it is not clear that the Project had any significant
impact on the their establishment and strengthening. The Project had originally
contemplated the establishment, furnishing and equipping of 31 Regulation Centers, but
as the PDR that had been developed centered around nine macro regions, a decision was
made to structure the Regulation Centers around each of these macro regions, of which
two already counted with established Regulation Centers, and one faced difficulties with
acquisition of land for building the new Center. In 2004, SESAB requested financing for
the development of information systems for these Regulation Centers, but in the end this
was not implemented under the Project. Originally, the Project had contemplated turn-
key contracts to develop auditing and accreditation systems, but this support was
provided by an individual consultant that provided only support to reorganize SESAB's
audit function, and it is not clear that any progress was made under the Project towards
strengthening the regions' capacity to conduct clinical, financial or environmental audits
of providers, or of developing a system for their accreditation.


In addition to the activities that had been contemplated originally, SESAB contracted a
study to review the models of 43 of the hospitals it managed, present alternative
management models for those hospitals, including proposals on how to implement a more
modern and efficient management of the same. In response to an outbreak of Dengue
Fever, the Project also financed the State's Emergency Plan for Dengue through the
financing of computer and hospital equipment, medicines, hospital furniture and
ambulances and other materials. Other activities included: (a) a consultant to assist
SESAB in contracting health services; (b) printing agendas with the 2004 annual
operating plan; (c) providing logistic support for implementing Projeto Mais Saude Bahia
in coordination with municipalities in 2004 to promote basic health care; and (d)
consultants to support the planning and definition of medium complexity procedures by
SESAB.


Equipment for the first level of medium complexity healthcare. This subcomponent
had aimed to finance equipment for micro regions in which the municipio polo had
signed agreements with its partner municipalities to establish micro regional health care
networks and developed a plan to achieve Gestao Plena. Equipment was expected to
include surgical equipment for small operating rooms and emergency facilities,
ultrasound and radiology equipment, kits for laboratory exams and vehicles to transport
patients and laboratory materials. Initially, several factors led SESAB to scale back the
number of municipalities that would be assisted: (a) the appreciation of the R$ against
the $ which limited funding under the loan; (b) the costs and technical specifications of


                                           49
equipment to be procured; (c) the lack of professionals capable of using the equipment to
be procured. It was first agreed that only the municipios polo would benefit from this
subcomponent, but later SESAB opted for providing fewer types of equipment to 16
municipalities. In all, equipment for small operating rooms and emergency facilities, kits
for laboratory exams and vehicles were excluded from the package provided to the
municipalities, and only laboratory, computer and electro-domestic equipment was
financed. Unfortunately, the large reduction in the number of municipalities that
benefited from this assistance was detrimental to the objective of supporting the
development of effective regional healthcare networks. Since most of these activities
were only completed in 2009, their impact on the Project to date is not yet considered
significant.


Support for management improvements in the Municipality of Salvador. The only
activity financed by the Project under this subcomponent was the contracting of a
consultant to support the Municipality of Salvador in proposing improvements to its
administrative and organizational structure, including the management of the Fundo
Municipal de Saude. Despite this lack of progress under this subcomponent, the
Municipality of Salvador achieved Gestao Plena in 2006.


Component 2: Strengthening capacity for policy implementation and regulation
Output Indicators:

           ·   Two health and demographic household surveys completed

           ·   Four policy studies completed

           ·   A Regulation Center for High Complexity services deployed


Information Systems, Monitoring and Evaluation. In part as a result of delays in
agreeing upon the Terms of Reference for the large health, demographic and social
household surveys, these were in the end not carried out. This subcomponent financed:
(a) a consultant to finalize a study that had been started by students from the Federal
University of Bahia on the evaluability of the Project; (b) creating a data base for
monitoring the Project; and (c) a consultant to carry out an evaluation of the Project.


Policy Studies. Of the three studies originally contemplated, one was carried out
(development of contracts), one was modified (environmental management) and one was
dropped (reforms of the payments systems). The study on development of contracts was
considered of high importance given the ongoing process of decentralization and the need
to establish working relationships with charity hospitals and municipal public entities.
Several studies that had not originally been contemplated were also carried out. Ten


                                           50
consultants were contracted to work with SESAB on strengthening its capacity to
evaluate and monitor basic health care. This work was carried out in coordination with
municipalities, their health care personnel, the Municipal Health Councils and staff of the
DIRES, SESAB's regional offices, and fed into the development of policies on basic
health care through coordination with the existing structure of the Family Health Care
Program. Consultants were also financed to develop a distance-learning plan for
providing training to municipalities and to carry out an environmental diagnostic of four
maternal and neonatal units.


Control and management of high complexity care. The Project had originally
contemplated activities to strengthen SESAB's capacity as purchaser and auditor of high
complexity care, and begin processes for accrediting high complexity providers. This
component was to finance the establishment of a Regulation Center for High Complexity
Care at the State level. In view of the State's modified structure for regulation with
Centers established in the municipios polo of the macro regions, financing for
information technology equipment, software and construction for these Regional
Regulation Centers were incorporated under Component I.


Component 3. Expansion of Basic Care
Output Indicators:

           ·   Inconsistencies eliminated from data bases for Basic Care

           ·   Quarterly analysis and reporting of PACTOS in place

           ·   Protocols for quality surveillance of Basic Care issued

           ·   About 30 Basic Care Expansion Plans approved and under implementation


This was perhaps one of the most successful of the Project's components, as in 2003
coverage rates of the Family Health Program among the State's municipalities was very
low: only 20 percent of the municipalities participated, and only ten of the twelve large
municipalities; nine of these only had one or two Family Health Teams which resulted in
insignificant coverage for their populations. The expansion and qualification of
municipalities to participate in the Family Health Program required support for
infrastructure development, work organization, contracting, financing and training
professionals for the teams.


Strengthening the Pacto de Atencao Basica. Activities under this subcomponent aimed
to strengthen the State's capacity to ensure quality norms for basic health care. After a
somewhat difficult start, SESAB prioritized the development of a training program in the


                                            51
micro regions beginning with a specialized training on the Family Health Program that
emphasized management and coordination of the work processes that focused on the
roles of municipalities and technical staff of the DIRES. Participation in this course
prepared the municipal administrators and technical staff to deliver basic care while at the
same time ensuring appropriate administration and the delivery of quality basic care. In
order to ensure compliance with quality norms, the Project also financed the development
and establishment of a formal process to certify the many Family Health Teams
according to pre-defined clinical, service and administrative criteria. Municipal
certification of a Family Health Team guaranteed the transfer of state funding for basic
health care. During implementation however SESAB found that this system created a
perverse incentive in that weaker municipalities, that had weaker performance, neither
received funding nor support to improve their performance.            SESAB, through its
Diretoria de Atencao Basica, in coordination with the DIRES, and supported by
consultants financed under the Project put in place a system to monitor and evaluate the
performance of different municipalities, not only initially through certification, but
continuously by identifying problems they faced and their causes, putting in place action
plans to improve performance and providing technical support to do so.


There were several mechanisms that were tested and later discontinued, but all of these
had as a basic goal improving the quality of basic care, especially in the State's poorest
municipalities. Through 2007, in its efforts to improve basic care, the Project provided
supplemental funding to the 15 municipalities with the poorest indicators of economic
and social development to help in funding the Family Health Teams. Recognizing that
contracting and retaining medical and nursing staff in remote areas, where most of these
municipalities are located, the Project also financed a bonus payment to provide
incentives for staff to remain in their Family Health Teams for at least two years. Both of
these mechanisms for supplementing funding for the poorest municipalities were
discontinued after an evaluation carried out in 2008. That evaluation found not only that
these financial incentives not producing impacts on the basic health care indicators of the
beneficiary municipalities, but that they were also inflating salary expectations and
resulting in problems with coverage of teams in neighboring municipalities. The
financial incentives were also not sustainable and yet benefited only 15 out of the State's
417 municipalities, many of which were also encountering problems with retention of
staff in their Family Health Teams.


To address the staff retention issues of the Family Health Teams, the Project financed
five studies (not originally contemplated) aimed at analyzing and developing a proposal
for the creation of a fund, the Fundacao de Equipes do Saude Familia (FESF) aimed at
assisting interested municipalities in the hiring and retaining of staff for their Family
Health Teams. FESF is already established, equipped, staffed and in the process of
contracting medical and other staff for Family Health Teams to start working in 2010.
Sixty-nine municipalities have signed agreements to enlist the help of the FESF and
another 273 have signed protocols declaring their intention to contract FESF.



                                            52
Strengthening the Basic Pharmacy Program. The Project had aimed to make the
purchase and distribution of basic drugs more efficient and effective by involving
municipalities more directly in the process of storage and distribution and implementing
an internet-based price-bank and a system of e-purchases. Through 2007, the Project
financed the development of micro regional centers to distribute pharmaceuticals, the
acquisition of furniture and equipment for those center, the design of software and
manuals and the carrying out of studies relating to the logistics and distribution of drugs.
Starting in 2007, SESAB redefined the approach to the State's basic pharmacy program
within the State whereby the distribution of drugs to municipalities was to be handled by
the Central de Abastecimento Farmaceutico do Estado (CEFARBA). This represented a
major shift from the model that had originally been envisaged in the Project's design. As
a result, several of the originally contemplated activities were not implemented. The
Project focused on activities related to improving the rational use of pharmaceuticals
through the updating, expanding and publishing of a list of pharmaceuticals (Relacao
Estadual de Medicamentos, RESME), carrying out training for basic health care
prescribers and for pharmacists in the State's network of pharmacies, and financing the
purchase of information technology equipment and furniture for SESAB's Directorate of
Pharmaceutical Assistance (Diretoria de Assistencia Farmaceutica, DASF).


Basic Care Expansion Subprojects. This subcomponent aimed to support the expansion
of Basic Care services through the implementation of subprojects in 30-40 municipalities
(and be expanded to a total of 100 municipalities in the second phase of the APL)
designed to obtain progress towards the ten performance priorities in the first
composition indicator. The component was designed to be demand-driven, but priority
was to be given to municipalities on the basis of their IGDS. The subprojects were to
finance supply of basic services for implementation of the Family Health Program by
remodeling of health centers, acquisition of basic medical, transport and communications
equipment, hiring incremental health care workers, supporting institutional modernization
and strengthening of information systems and training and supervision. Throughout
implementation, the number of municipalities, and their selection process, suffered
variations. As early as 2003, SESAB decided to expand to 88 the number of
municipalities to be supported by the Project. Then, with the appreciation of the $R vis-
à-vis the $, this number was reduced to 63 municipalities. The new state administration
that took office in 2007 decided to prioritize assistance to the 40 municipalities in the
state with the lowest Human Development Index (Indice de Desenvolvimento Humano,
IDH). Of these, 17 had already been contemplated for assistance; therefore, in the end 86
municipalities were to receive assistance. Seven municipalities were excluded for failure
to comply with requisites and one failed to comply with reporting requirements and was
dropped. In the end, 78 municipalities received assistance under subprojects that
financed the construction of 260 new and rehabilitation of 48 existing basic care health
centers under the Project.
Over the Project's implementation, several lessons became apparent. First, building new
health centers for carrying out the Family Health Program did not produce expected


                                            53
results unless this construction was coordinated with a reorganization of the health care
delivery model and the adoption of policies to ensure the stability of health care workers
in their positions. Second, a review carried out by SESAB in 2008 found that the
construction and rehabilitation of health centers had a marked impact on the quality of
infrastructure in existing centers and on substituting newly built centers for those
previously occupying rental and/or inadequate facilities. It was not clear that
expectations in terms of expanded coverage of the Family Health Program materialized
under the Project as a result of construction and/or rehabilitation alone. Finally, despite
the UGP's strong effort to provide support to municipalities with procurement and
supervision of works, their municipalities' weak administrative capacity was repeatedly
the cause of delays throughout implementation. As a result, it is clear that to achieve the
goal of 100 percent quality coverage of the Family Health Program, the authorities need
to prioritize both measures to address weak implementation capacity at the municipal
level, together with addressing systemic issues such as the difficulties in retaining Family
Health staff, above new construction of rehabilitation.




                                            54
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                              Original
                                                               Target
                                                Baseline
                                                               Values
                 Indicator                       Value                     Achieved
                                                             2007(from
                                                 2001
                                                              approval
                                                             documents)
Hospital admissions due to diarrheal
                                                  21%           18%          25%
infections
Admissions due to respiratory infections           6.8           5.8         12.8
for children <5 years                           per 1,000     per 1,000    per 1,000
DPT/tetravalent immunization coverage ­
                                                  83%           90%          94%
children <1 year
Complete prenatal care attendance/number                                      94%
                                                  65%           70%
of births                                                                 (SINAC 84%)
Confirmed cases of neonatal tetanus                 5            0             1
                                                                              8.5%
Percent of underweight children                   7.3%          6.5%       (Indicator
                                                                           excluded)
Percent of new TB cases cured                     68%           85%          51%
                                                    1.3         1 per          1.8
Detection rate of leprosy cases
                                                per 10,000     10,000      per 10,000

Hospitalization rate of ketoacidosis and            0.7          0.3           0.6
diabetic coma                                   per 10,000   per 10,000    per 10,000
Population covered by the Family Health
                                                  11%           35%          51%
Program

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s) expected by completion of the Project (Phase
I of the APL)
                                                Formally Revised Target Values
                 Original Target Values (from
    Indicator                                      Actual Value Achieved at
                     approval documents)
                                                  Completion or Target Years
               The concentration of the state's
               public health expenditures in
Indicator 1:                                     The measurement reached 41%
               Salvador is reduced from 40% to
               35%




                                           55
                                                   Formally Revised Target Values
                Original Target Values (from
   Indicator                                          Actual Value Achieved at
                    approval documents)
                                                     Completion or Target Years
               The capacity of the municipality
               of Salvador is developed to the
Indicator 2:                                                      100%
               level required by national
               policies of Gestão Plena
                                                 Juazeiro (Macro Norte)
               At least five health micro-
                                                 Paulo Afonso (Macro Norte)
               regions purchase services worth
                                                 Senhor do Bonfim (Macro Norte)
Indicator 3:   10% or more of the budget of
                                                 Eunápolis (Macro Extremo-Sul)
               participating municipalities and
                                                 Teixeira de Freitas (Macro Extremo-
               will audit the provision of care
                                                 Sul)
                                                 1.Cirurgia cardíaca infantil : (i)
                                                  Fechamento de comunicação
                                                  interventricular, (ii) Fechamento de
                                                  comunicação interatrial, (iii) Correção
                                                  de tetralogia de Fallot e variantes
                                                 2.Cirurgia oncológica de mama e do
                                                 colo uterino: (i) Histerectomia total
                                                 ampliada, (ii) Mastectomia radical
                                                 com linfadenectomia
                                                 3. Neurocirurgia de tumores no adulto:
                                                 (i) Microcirurgia para tumor
                                                 intracraniano, (ii) Derivação
               At least five high complexity
                                                 ventricular para peritoneo
               interventions are regulated with
                                                 /átrio/pleura/raque
Indicator 4:   transparency in the assignment
                                                 4. Cirurgia para traumatismo raqui-
               of resources to interventions and
                                                 medular no adulto: (i) Artrodese
               to patients
                                                 intersomática via posterior / póstero-
                                                 lateral, três níveis, (ii) Artrodese
                                                 cervical / cérvico-torácica posterior
                                                 seis níveis
                                                 5. Cirurgia para fratura de colo de
                                                 fêmur nos maiores de 60 anos:
                                                 (i)Tratamento cirúrgico de Fratura /
                                                 Lesão fisaria proximal (colo) do fêmur
                                                 (síntese), (ii) Tratamento cirúrgico da
                                                 fratura transtrocanteriana
                                                 6.Tratamento cirúrgico da obesidade:
                                                 Gastroplastia com derivação intestinal




                                          56
                                                                   Formally Revised Target Values
                        Original Target Values (from
   Indicator                                                          Actual Value Achieved at
                            approval documents)
                                                                     Completion or Target Years
                       The role of the State Health
                       Secretariat in direct provision of
                       services is reduced by limiting
Indicator 5:                                                                            100%
                       the number of small hospitals
                       (under 50 beds) under its direct
                       control to no more than 10




(c) The Structure of Bahia's Regional Health Network, 2009


  Macro-Region                     Micro-Regions               Location of DIRE                 Gestion

    Center-East         1. Feira de Santana          Feira de Santana (2nd)                      Plena
                                                     Mundo Novo (17th)                         Não Plena
 (location: Feira de    2. Itaberaba                 Itaberaba (18th)                            Plena
      Santana)
                        3. Seabra                    Seabra (27th)                             Não Plena
                        4. Serrinha                  Serrinha (12th)                             Plena
   Center-North         5. Jacobina                  Jacobina (16th)                           Não Plena
                                                              st
                        6. Irecê                     Irecê (21 )                                 Plena
     (location:
     Jacobina)

   Extreme South        7. Teixeira de Freitas       Teixeira de Freitas (9th)                   Plena

 (location: Teixara     8. Porto Seguro                                                          Plena
     de Freitas)                                                        th
                                                     Eunápolis (8 )                              Plena
                                                                   st
        East            9. Salvador                  Salvador (1 )                               Plena
                        10. Camaçari                                                             Plena
     (location:
     Salvador)          11. Cruz das Almas           Cruz das Almas (31st)                       Plena
                        12. Santo Antônio de Jesus   Santo Antônio de Jesus (4th)                Plena
                                                     Amargosa (29th)                             Plena
     Northeast          13. Alagoinhas               Alagoinhas (3rd)                            Plena
     (location:         14. Ribeira do Pombal                                                  Não Plena
    Alagoinhas)
                                                     Cicero Dantas (11th)                      Não Plena

       North            15. Juazeiro                 Juazeiro (15th)                             Plena
                                                                              th
     (location:         16. Paulo Afonso             Paulo Afonso (10 )                          Plena
     Juazeiro)          17. Senhor do Bonfim         Senhor do Bonfim (28 )        th
                                                                                                 Plena

       West             18. Barreiras                Barreiras (25th)                            Plena
                                                                         nd
     (location:         19. Ibotirama                Ibotirama (22 )                           Não Plena




                                                     57
 Macro-Region                Micro-Regions                  Location of DIRE       Gestion

    Barreiras)       20. Santa Maria da Vitória   Santa Maria da Vitória        Não Plena

   Southwest         21. Vitória da Conquista     Vitória da Conquista (20th)       Plena
                                                                  th
(location: Vitória   22. Brumado                  Brumado (19 )                     Plena
                                                                rd
  da Conquista)                                   Boquira (23 )                   Não Plena
                                                                     th
                     23. Guanambi                 Guanambi (30 )                    Plena
                                                  Caetité (24th)                  Não Plena
                     24. Itapetinga               Itapetinga (14th)             Não Plena
      South          25. Itabuna                  Itabuna (7th)                  Não Plena
                     26. Ilhéus                   Ilhéus (6th)                     Plena
(location Itabuna)
                     27. Jequié                   Jequié (13th)                    Plena
                     28. Valença                                                 Não Plena
                                                  Gandu (5th)                   Não Plena




                                                  58
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

N/A




                                    59
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
           Names                              Title                Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Daniel Cotlear                Senior Economist (Health)           LCSHH TTL
Armin Fidler                  Senior Health Specialist            ECSHD Heatlh
Helen Saxenian                Not available                       HDNHE Sector Management
André Medici                  Senior Economist (Health)            IDB  Health economist
Varun Gauri                   Senior Economist                    DECHD Health
Ximena Traa-Valarezo          ET Consultant                       LCSHH Consultant
Daniela Marques               Operations Analyst                  LCSPT Procurement
Efraim Jimenez                Procurement specialist              LCSPT Procurement
Alexandre Borges              Senior Procurement Specialist       LCSPT Procurement
Marta Molares-Halberg         Lawyer                              LEGLA Lawyer
Omowunmi Ladipo               Disbursement officer                CTRFC Disbursement
Tulio Correa                  Financial Management Specialist     CTRFC Finance
Bernice Van Bronkhorst        Senior Urban Specialist             SASDU Water/Sanitation
Fabiana Imperatriz            Team assistant                      LCSHH Assistant
Gilles Le Beau                Consultant                          LCSHH Consultant
Lourdes Noel                  Program Assistant                   LCSHH Assistant
Supervision/ICR
Fernando Lavadenz              Senior Health Specialist           LCSHH   TTL
Amparo E. Gordillo-Tobar       Senior Economist (Health)          LCSHH   TTL
Keith E. Hansen                Sector Manager                     LCSHH   Health management
Bernard A. Becq                Chief Procurement Policy Officer   OPCPR   Procurement
Junxue Chu                     Senior Finance Officer             CTRFC   Finance
 Jose C. Janeiro               Senior Finance Officer             CTRFC   Finance
 Alexandre Borges de OliveiraSenior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT   Procurement
 Luis R. Prada Villalobos      Senior Procurement Specialist      MNAPR   Procurement
 Luis Orlando Perez            Senior Public Health Specialist    LCSHH   Health
 Daniela Pena De Lima          Operations Officer                 LCSHH   Operation
 Anemarie Guth Proite          Procurement Specialist             LCSPT   Procurement
 Meri Paula K. Helleranta      Consultant                         AFTH3   n/a
 Lerick S. Kebeck              Senior Program Assistant           LCSHS   Assistant
 Eugenio Vilaca Mendes         Consultant                         LCSHH   Consultant
 Cassia Castro De Miranda      Program Assistant                  HDNED   Assistant
 Jesus Maria Fernandez Diaz Consultant                            LCSHH   Consultant
Isabella Bablumian             E T Consultant                     LCSHH   Consultant
 Cristian J.A. Pereira Stambuk Consultant                         LCSHH   Consultant
 J. Fernando Felix de Oliveira Program Coordinator                LCC5C   n/a
 Trajano Quinhoes              E T Consultant                     LCSHH   n/a
Geraldine Beneitez             E T Temporary                      LCSHH   Assistant
Julie B. Nannucci              Program Assistant                  LCSHH   Assistant
Suzana Abbot                   Consultant                         LCSHD   Consultant



                                               60
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                                79.05
  FY99                                                                70.05
  FY00                                      29                       121.34
  FY01                                      20                        83.94
  FY02                                       8                        62.97
  FY03                                      39                       110.76
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                       2                         3.55
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:            98                       531.66
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                                 0.00
  FY99                                                                 0.00
  FY00                                                                 0.00
  FY01                                                                 0.00
  FY02                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                    23                         113.11
  FY05                                    24                         103.40
  FY06                                    32                         114.17
  FY07                                    22                          98.74
  FY08                                    17                          79.30
  FY09                                    24                           0.00
                          Total:         142                         508.72




                                       61
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                      62
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                   63
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
                   GOVERNO DO ESTADO DA BAHIA
(Secretaria da Saúde do Estado da Bahia-Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projeto Saúde Bahia)

        COMENTÁRIOS DA SESAB REFERENTES AO DOCUMENTO:
 "Conclusão da Implementação e Relatório de Resultados" / BIRD Salvador, Bahia, 17
                                      de maio de 2010

I. Apresentaçao

A primeira fase do Projeto de Reforma do Sistema de Saúde da Bahia (APL 1) foi
desenvolvida no período de 2003 a 2009. Este período abrangeu duas eleições
municipais e uma eleição estadual, mudanças na equipe dirigente e de técnicos da
SESAB, incluiu duas extensões de prazo e sofreu uma série de ajustes no seu Plano de
Implementação.

O relatório final (versão preliminar) do Projeto Saúde Bahia, elaborado pela SESAB e
apresentado ao BIRD em novembro de 2009, sistematizou os principais resultados
obtidos mediante a avaliação dos seis Gatilhos previstos no PAD (Project Appraisal
Document), além de apresentar os produtos referentes aos quatro componentes do
Plano de Implementação e o demonstrativo físico-financeiro. Apresentou ainda os
resultados do estudo de avaliação final do Projeto, cujo objetivo foi identificar fatores
contextuais que potencialmente influenciaram sua execução, discutindo as relações
entre as características da sua gestão, seu grau de implantação e o grau de obtenção de
resultados.

Como parte do processo de finalização do Projeto Saúde Bahia o BIRD também fez o
seu relatório (ICR No. 00001529 ­ Implementation Completion and Results Report,
ou "Conclusão da Implementação e Relatório de Resultados"), apoiado no relatório da
SESAB, em outros documentos e mediante entrevistas com algumas áreas técnicas da
SESAB, que foi enviado a esta instituição em maio de 2010. Este ICR está dividido
em sete partes, a saber: Contexto, Desenho e Objetivos do Projeto; Principais fatores
que afetaram a implementação e os resultados; Avaliação dos Resultados; Avaliação
de Risco para o Alcance dos Resultados; Avaliação do Desempenho do Banco e do
Mutuário, Lições Aprendidas e Comentários sobre as questões levantadas pelo
Mutuário.

O presente documento resume o posicionamento da SESAB em relação às principais
questões discutidas neste ICR. Ainda que seu objetivo não tenha sido o de traduzir o
ICR, foi necessário fazê-lo em alguns aspectos para que os comentários da SESAB
pudessem ficar mais claros.




                                            64
II. Principais questões abordadas no ICR

1. Contexto, desenho e objetivos de desenvolvimento do Projeto

São retomadas as origens do Projeto e o processo de preparação durante o período
2000/2002. O ICR retoma os objetivos originais do Projeto, os indicadores
intermediários de resultados (APL 1) e a descrição detalhada de cada um dos seus
quatro componentes: Implementação de Microrregiões de Saúde na Bahia;
Fortalecimento da capacidade de implementação de políticas e de regulação na
SESAB; Expansão da Atenção Básica e Gestão do Projeto. Foi apontado que, ainda
que não tenha sido feita nenhuma revisão formal nesses componentes, houve várias
modificações no foco e nas atividades que foram financiadas pelo Projeto, sem que
tenha havido necessidade de reformulação do PAD.

Outras mudanças significantes apontadas foram as duas extensões do prazo de
finalização do APL 1 e a realocação de recursos para refletir as despesas reais do
Projeto. O processo de preparação do Projeto foi avaliado como coerente com o a
Estratégia de Assistência ao País (da sigla em inglês CAS), tendo sido incorporado os
achados e as lições aprendidas de outros projetos do BIRD e os achados do estudo
"Descentralização da Atenção à Saúde no Brasil ­ Um estudo de caso da Bahia".

O BIRD caracteriza o Projeto Saúde Bahia como ambicioso nos seus objetivos e no
seu escopo, pretendendo abranger toda a população do estado, mas entende que a
definição de alguns poucos componentes bem focados minimizaram este aspecto.
Também foram ressaltadas a adequação do Projeto aos compromissos de governo e o
processo participativo na elaboração do mesmo - discussão com distintos atores, tais
como COSEMS, SMS Salvador e membros do seu CMS, etc.

2. Fatores chave que afetaram a implementação e os resultados

Ainda que a classificação global do Projeto tenha sido de risco substancial, pelo
envolvimento de múltiplos atores na sua execução (três níveis de governo e a agencia
financiadora), o BIRD destaca que o principal risco durante a implementação do
projeto (retardo da implementação ou mudança de foco devido a mudanças na
administração estadual) não foi percebido como um risco em si. Este fato, associado
às mudanças na equipe de condução do Projeto, levaram a um contínuo retardo na sua
implementação até o ano 2007.

O BIRD também destaca que um outro fator que afetou negativamente a
implementação foi o atraso nos processos de aquisição, destacando que a equipe
responsável por esta área não tinha o preparo técnico suficiente, inclusive
desconhecendo as regras do Banco.



                                         65
Outros fatores que retardaram a execução do Projeto:

   · projeto não estava pronto para começar a ser implementado quando o
     empréstimo foi aprovado, levando a que o primeiro ano após a aprovação
     fosse consumido em finalizar os procedimentos necessários ao início da sua
     execução (por exemplo, concluir a elaboração do Manual de Operação e
     colocar em prática os processos de monitoramento e avaliação);

   · a equipe responsável pela implementação do projeto não estava familiarizada
     com o mesmo (o BIRD destaca que houve uma importante mudança na equipe
     técnica da SESAB que iniciou a execução do Projeto em 2003, distinta da
     equipe que participou da elaboração do desenho do Projeto nos dois anos
     anteriores).

   · novo governo (2003) tinha uma concepção diferente do processo de reforma
     do que aquele definido no PAD. O Projeto passou a ser visto como uma fonte
     de recursos para financiar infra-estrutura, equipamento e recursos humanos;
     também é ressaltado que houve uma verticalização do processo de preparação
     dos subprojetos municipais, inclusive contratando uma empresa de consultoria
     para elaborá los, com limitada participação da gestão municipal e sem garantia
     de sustentabilidade. Também é apontada a fraca coordenação entre a SESAB e
     UGP, o que levou à classificação de desempenho insatisfatório ao final do
     primeiro ano de execução do Projeto.

Após seis diferentes missões num espaço de apenas cinco meses (novembro 2004 a
março 2005) a implementação do Projeto teria começado a decolar, entrando num
"ciclo positivo" e sendo classificado pelo BIRD como de desempenho
moderadamente insatisfatório. Na metade de 2005 a SESAB estaria mais apropriada
do Projeto, inclusive alcançando precocemente a meta do Gatilho 6. (ver comentários
no item 3 a seguir) A Revisão de Meio Termo (2006) traça um diagnóstico otimista,
incluindo a implementação do Monitoramento e Avaliação (M&A) com foco em
resultado; ações preventivas e melhor controle de doenças nos municípios como
resultado de educação e programas de treinamento introduzidos pelo PSB,
implementação dos subprojetos municipais, gestão com enfoque baseado em
resultados. A supervisão intensa da SESAB e discussão regular sobre as metas e os
gatilhos do Projeto teriam permitido a identificação precoce dos problemas e
soluções, a instituição de um sistema de premiação para prefeitos teria criado um
senso de responsabilidade e motivação adicional, o que levou a classificação de
desempenho como moderadamente satisfatório.

A partir de 2007, quando assumiu a nova gestão da SESAB, o ICR destaca que as
preocupações do Banco com uma possível nova descontinuidade na implementação
do Projeto não se materializaram, enfatizando-se, entre outras coisas, a transição
tranqüila de governo, com manutenção e reforço da visão estratégica; os arranjos
institucionais e organizacionais da SESAB vislumbrados foram considerados efetivos


                                         66
e eficientes para a implementação do Projeto; a preservação da maioria da equipe do
Projeto; fortes indicações do novo governo do Estado de que o Projeto estava entre as
prioridades da gestão, destacando a vinculação hierárquica da UGP ao Gabinete do
Secretário. O resultado deste cenário institucional possibilitou a avaliação de
desempenho classificada como satisfatória em 2008.

3. Monitoramento e avaliação (M&A) do Projeto

O modelo de M&A tomou por base os seis gatilhos e os indicadores dedesempenho,
alguns deles reconhecidos pelo BIRD como de difícil aferição (como no caso do
Gatilho 2) ou com problemas de acurácia (no que se refere a parte dos indicadores do
Gatilho 1). Observa-se que a incorporação progressiva da estratégia de gestão baseada
em resultados no período 2005/2006 referida acima coincide com a elaboração da
primeira Agenda Estadual de Saúde. Outros elementos apontados pelo BIRD como
estratégia para implementar o M&A e a gestão com enfoque em resultados foram: a
intensificação do processo de supervisão aos municípios (por parte da UGP e da
SESAB); a implantação do sistema de certificação dos municípios; o sistema de
premiação aos prefeitos que atingissem um conjunto de metas definidas para o
Gatilho 1 e com a contratação de uma consultoria específica em M&A que buscou
dinamizar as ações para o alcance dos objetivos do Projeto junto às áreas técnicas da
SESAB. Ao final de 2005 os Gatilhos 2 e 6 estariam alcançados e a SESAB teria
inrporação a RMA em todos os seus programas.

Sobre o processo de M&A, a gestão com enfoque em resultados e seus impactos até
aquele momento, a SESAB destaca as seguintes observações:

   · Informações de atores da época dão conta que houve um esforço institucional
     concreto para utilização e disseminação dessas ferramentas de gestão,
     inclusive com a realização de oficinas e seminários em distintos lugares da
     Bahia;

   · Tomando-se a Agenda Estadual de Saúde de 2004, desdobramento da agenda
     Nacional de Saúde (cuja normatização, pelo governo federal, ocorreu em
     2001) como a ferramenta que viabilizou a gestão com enfoque em resultados
     referida no ICR, destaca-se que este processo teve continuidade nos anos
     seguintes e que a partir de 2007 o Projeto Saúde Bahia passou a integrar esta
     Agenda (agora chamada de Agenda Estratégica). Como o ICR não faz
     referência a este segundo momento, chama-se a atenção que não houve
     solução de continuidade na busca pela incorporação efetiva das ações e metas
     do Projeto no planejamento global da SESAB. Ao contrário, foi possível
     estabelecer um novo patamar para a visibilidade institucional do Projeto e um
     acompanhamento da sua implementação pelo conjunto dos gestores da
     SESAB. Entende-se que isto minimizou o abandono da estratégia anterior de
     monitoramento de metas e resultados intermediários do Projeto, que era
     realizado por um consultor externo à equipe dirigente da SESAB, permitindo

                                         67
      que o monitoramento da UGP ficasse centrado no Gatilho 1 (cujo alcance era
      obrigatório para passar à fase seguinte). A avaliação ganhou um novo status,
      com a encomenda de estudos específicos que dessem conta da complexidade e
      da dinâmica de execução do Projeto, contando com o apoio técnico de
      residentes e docentes do Programa de Residência em Saúde da Família do
      Instituto de Saúde Coletiva da Universidade Federal da Bahia e da contratação
      de uma consultora egressa deste Programa;

   · Sobre o alcance dos Gatilhos 2 e 6 ao final de 2005, a SESAB chama a
     atenção para a imprecisão na forma de avaliar o primeiro, referida no próprio
     ICR (o que levou ao abandono deste gatilho no processo de avaliação da
     quantidade de gatilhos alcançados ao final do Projeto); em relação aos
     hospitais de pequeño porte - menores de 50 leitos - (Gatilho 6), demonstrou-se
     que esta meta só foi efetivamente alcançada em 2008. É possível que essas
     afirmativas que constam no ICR, baseadas nos relatórios de desempenho
     parcial da época, reflitam os problemas de supervisão do BIRD apontados
     neste mesmo ICR.

4. Alcance dos objetivos do Projeto ­ comentarios

O ICR revisa os achados do monitoramento do Gatilho 1 que constam do relatório
SESAB, destacando os progressos feitos no alcance das metas estipuladas, as
dificuldades de aferição por meio dos indicadores escolhidos e o fato dos resultados
deste gatilho não refletirem, necessariamente, o impacto do Projeto na implementação
da atenção básica. A SESAB chama a atenção para os seguintes aspectos:

   · A comparação da proporção de municípios beneficiados com subprojetos que
     alcançaram pelo menos 5 a 9 metas, com o total dos municípios do estado é
     inadequada, uma vez que este total abrange o subconjunto anterior e,
     principalmente, pela grande heterogeneidade de características demográficas e
     sócio-econômicas entre ambos os grupos;

   · As justificativas constantes da nota técnica que obteve a NO do BIRD para a
     retirada do indicador relativo ao baixo peso ao nascer, basearam-se no
     argumento principal que não era possível discriminar o peso dos determinantes
     sócioeconômicosdeste fenômeno em relação aos demais determinantes
     (relacionadosacesso e à qualidade do pré-natal), além da pouca factibilidade do
     alcance dameta estipulada, avaliada como ambiciosa - acima da média
     histórica da Bahia eda região nordeste do Brasil; não se tratava, portanto,
     exclusivamente devido aos motivos apresentados no ICR (melhorias de
     qualidade da assistência à gestação,evitando abortos e mortalidade perinatal);




                                        68
   · A redução das internações hospitalares por doença infecciosa intestinal
     aplicouse aos menores de cinco anos de idade (o ICR não faz menção à faixa
     etária); indicador referente à tuberculose trata do percentual de cura de casos
     novos e não ao percentual de casos novos, como redigido no ICR. Os dados da
     Organização Mundial de Saúde para o ano de 2008 revelam ligeiras diferenças
     entre o número de casos novos estimados para o Brasil e a subnotificação dos
     mesmos mencionados no texto do ICR (ver em: http://www.who.int/tb/
     publications/global_report/2009/update/a-2_amr.pdf). De todo modo, ainda
     que o aumento da incidência da doença possa dificultar o alcance da meta de
     cura de casos novos, chama-se a atenção que os problemas na operação do
     Programa de Controle nas unidades de saúde, associados aos problemas do
     sistema de informação provavelmente sejam os maiores determinantes que
     tenham dificultado o alcance da meta, de acordo com os estudos realizados
     pela UGP;

   · O estudo de validação das internações por condições sensíveis a atenção
     primária foi realizado pela UGP em parceria com a os auditores da SESAB e
     não com a equipe de auditores federais, como consta no ICR.

Resultados dos demais gatilhos: sem comentários adicionais

Eficiência: O ICR traz considerações sobre a análise custo-benefício realizada durante
apreparação do Projeto, que estimou uma substancial economia no setor
primariamente pela redução dos custos hospitalares devido a: maior resolubilidade no
nível local com redução da referência de pacientes para a rede hospitalar; redução de
fatores de risco em populações alvo; redução de custos administrativos; redução dos
custos de hospitalização; unidades de atenção primárias mais eficientes e de melhor
qualidade.

Como esta análise não foi repetida ao final do Projeto, são feitas inferências acerca do
aumento da eficiência e da qualidade dos serviços de saúde na Bahia, a partir do
resultado do estudo das internações por condições sensíveis a atenção primária
(ICSAP); da redução do número de hospitais de pequeno porte geridos diretamente
pela SESAB, do apoio ao programa da farmácia básica, por meio do financiamento de
uma série de atividades importantes (como a produção da lista de medicamentos
essenciais, a implantação do sistema de gerenciamento de estoque e aquisição de
productos farmacêuticos, o programa medicamento em casa, etc.). A SESAB destaca
que, se não há dúvidas sobre o impacto potencial destas duas últimas atividades na
eficiência do SUS na Bahia, não é possível imputar eventuais ganhos de eficiência aos
resultados do ICSAP, que não foi desenhado nem tem poder para permitir associações
deste tipo - inclusive pelas limitações do estudo apontadas no seu relatório final.




                                          69
Resultados e impactos sobre outros temas gerais

   · Sobre a pobreza, aspectos de gênero e desenvolvimento social, o documento
     destaca que, no caso dos subprojetos municipais, os progressos observados nas
     metas pactuadas em municípios de baixo IDH permitem fortemente supor que
     houve um foco do Projeto nas populações mais pobres.

   · Mudanças/Aprimoramento Institucional: o BIRD destaca que o maior impacto
     na estrutura institucional foi referente a Atenção Básica, em particular o apoio
     ao incremento da cobertura do PSF e à estruturação da FESF. É destacado
     ainda o papel da implantação das micro e macrorregiões de saúde na
     configuração de uma rede de atenção descentralizada e as demais ações de
     apoio à descentralização apoiados pelo Projeto. O ICR enfatiza ainda que
     muitas atividades ainda estão em andamento, chamando a atenção que o papel
     das DIRES ainda precisa ser melhor equacionado.

     · Outros resultados e impactos involuntários: apoio financeiro à aquisição de
       equipamentos e insumos para a resposta emergencial à epidemia de dengue
       que eclodiuem 2008 no estado da Bahia.

5. Avaliação do risco de retrocesso: insignificante a baixo.

O documento destaca os avanços obtidos na efetiva implantação da NOAS na Bahia
como um caminho sem volta na descentralização dos serviços de saúde, sem
desconsiderar que ainda há muito por fazer e que esta é uma tarefa contínua, que
continuará a ser desenvolvida pela SESAB e demais gestores do SUS.

6. Avaliação do desempenho do Banco foi considerada moderadamente
   satisfatória em todos os seguintes itens:

   · Desempenho em assegurar a qualidade do Projeto para o início da sua
     execução

      A principal observação do ICR, baseado nos parâmetros atuais do Banco, é
      feita em relação ao quadro de referência para o desenho do M&A, na medida
      em que os objetivos do Projeto eram complexos e detalhados e continham
      alguns indicadores de resultados sujeitos aos vieses anteriormente apontados;
      também é destacado que a avaliação de risco, mesmo sendo menos
      compreensiva que a requerida atualmente, falhou em identificar vários riscos
      críticos que afetaram praticamente todo o período de implementação do
      Projeto: mudanças na administração e o conseqüente impacto que isto teria
      sobre o Projeto e o risco de atraso nos processos de aquisição; destaca ainda
      que, pelos padrões atuais do BIRD, o processo de preparação não estava
      completo (o Manual de Operações e o Plano de Implementação não haviam


                                         70
   sido finalizados, a equipe da UGP não estava adequadamente apropriada do
   Projeto e das regras do Banco e os termos de referência para consultorias
   chave não tinham sido preparados). Estes ricos, asociados ao fato do Projeto
   ter sido preparado numa administração e a efetivação do empréstimo ter
   ocorrido logo após o momento que uma nova administração assumiu o
   governo do estado, são considerados pelo BIRD como os principais
   responsáveis pelo atraso na implementação do Projeto até 2007. A SESAB
   chama a atenção que poderiam ser melhor explicitadas as lições aprendidas de
   outros projetos do BIRD que foram incorporadas ao desenho original do
   Projeto Saúde Bahia, na medida em que, ao longo do ICR, várias questões
   relacionadas à imprecisão de metas e indicadores foram levantadas.

· Na avaliação do desempenho do Banco em relação ao processo de supervisão,
  convém ressaltar dois aspectos importantes ­ um parcialmente abordado no
  ICR e outro não referido. O primeiro diz respeito às dificuldades de
  implementação que resultaram no retardo do período de execução final da
  APL1. De acordo com o ICR nos dois primeiros anos de implementação do
  Projeto houveram mudanças de foco em relação ao seu desenho original, além
  de problemas de gerenciamento na SESAB e na UGP, principalmente na área
  de aquisições. No entanto, somente ao final de 2004 o BIRD começou a
  intensificar as supervisões para tentar reverter a baixíssima execução do
  Projeto neste período (apenas 3,6%), inclusive com a mudança do Gerente do
  BIRD (oficialmente apresentado à SESAB em dezembro de 2004); a SESAB
  considera que o BIRD demorou para tomar uma atitude mais ativa para buscar
  a resolução dos problemas então detectados. O ICR faz ainda referência à
  insuficiência do processo de supervisão até meados do ano 2006
  (classificando-a como de qualidade moderadamente insatisfatória).

· Outro aspecto diz respeito à demora na concessão das Não Objeções (NO).
  Ainda que uma série de medidas tenha sido tomada para reforçar o processo de
  supervisão do BIRD no período pós-2006 (quando a classificação da
  supervisão passa a ser considerada satisfatória), a execução do Projeto
  continuou aquém do esperado até dezembro de 2006, o que resultou nas duas
  extensões de prazo para a finalização do APL 1. No entanto, além dos
  problemas internos da SESAB devidamente apontados no relatório do BIRD,
  alguns dos quais mantiveram-se no período da gestão atual, o longo tempo
  para o BIRD enviar as NO solicitadas pela UGP (particularmente quando da
  revisão do Plano de Implementação, em 2007) contribui de maneira
  significativa para o atraso na implementação do Projeto no período 2007/2008.
  ASESAB chama a atenção também para a duração efêmera dos progressos na
  gestão por enfoque em resultados e nas atividades de M&A nos anos 2005 - 06
  e apontados no relatório da Revisão de Meio Termo (item 2.2 do ICR), cujo
  impacto na implementação do Projeto não foi suficiente para tirá-lo do risco de




                                     71
     não conseguir alcançar até o final do ano 2007 os objetivos e os resultados
     expressos no PAD.

7. Avaliação do desempenho do Mutuário foi considerada moderadamente
satisfatória em todos os seguintes itens:

  · Desempenho do Governo Federal e Estadual

     O governo federal é citado na medida em que foi o avalista do empréstimo e
     coresponsável pelo financiamento e regulação da atenção à saúde no país. É
     destacado o compromisso do governo estadual durante o processo de
     preparação do Projeto e a formalização em uma Carta de Intenções que foi
     submetida ao BIRD e que foi resultado de acordos internos entre o governo
     estadual e do município de Salvador. O Banco destaca que nunca houve,
     durante toda a implementação do Projeto, questionamentos sobre os objetivos
     do seu desenvolvimento, e sim considerações de como alcançá-los. Segundo o
     BIRD, a principal questão sobre este item e que representou o maior impacto
     na implementação do Projeto até 2007, refere-se à capacidade do governo
     estadual em resolver os problemas em tempo hábil ­ incluindo o atraso dos
     processos na Procuradoria do Estado ­ reiterando a existência de uma equipe
     técnica inadequada (na UGP), os problemas apontados no preparo dos termos
     de referência e na execução dos processos de aquisição, entre outros, como
     dificuldades para a gestão do foco no monitoramento por resultados ­ o que,
     novamente, contradiz as conclusões do relatório da Revisão de Meio Termo
     acima comentadas. Após 2007 o BIRD aponta um renovado vigor na
     implementação do Projeto, destacando a adoção de um verdadeiro enfoque em
     resultados, que permitiram o ajuste gradual de prioridades e atividades
     direcionadas ao alcance dos resultados desejados. São destacados o acordo
     feito com a PGE, a adequação da equipe técnica da UGP e sua subordinação
     direta ao GASEC, a regularidade do financiamento federal e estadual. Há
     ainda menção à valorização do real em relação ao dólar, que teve impacto
     negativo no volume em reais dos recursos do empréstimo, impacto este que foi
     absorvido pelo governo estadual.

  · Desempenho dos governos municipais

     Referindo-se aos municípios beneficiados com os subprojetos municipais e ao
     município de Salvador, o BIRD destaca algumas características da gestão
     municipal que contribuíram para as dificuldades de implementação dos
     subprojetos (rotatividade de pessoal, processo eleitoral, acesso geográfico, etc)
     e as dificuldades da SESAB em prover adequada assistência a esses
     municípios até o ano 2006. São destacados os processos desenvolvidos a partir
     de 2007, em particular a intensificação da supervisão técnica (inclusive com o
     apoio das DIRES) e a estruturação da FESF. A SESAB inclui também como


                                        72
      exemplo deste esforço a intensiva revisão do processo de trabalho na área de
      engenharia da UGP, o que possibilitou a execução das obras dos subprojetos
      municipais de forma mais adequada, inclusive no quesito qualidade. Em
      relação ao município de Salvador, o ICR destaca que boa parte das ações do
      Plano de Ação estabelecido para o seu ingresso na gestão plena do sistema de
      saúde foi apoiada e desenvolvida pelo governo federal ou com seus próprios
      recursos, tendo recebido do BIRD apoio financeiro apenas para a estruturação
      do Fundo Municipal de Saúde.

8. Lições aprendidas

Como principais lições da implementação do Projeto Saúde Bahia são destacadas:

   · O ICR dá a entender que houve demora na tramitação interna ao BIRD para
     aprovação do empréstimo, que ocorreu já em meio a um novo cenário
     institucional decorrente das mudanças administrativas resultantes das eleições
     de 2002, além do impacto das eleições municipais de 2004 e 2008. São
     destacadas ainda a necessidade de conclusão dos projetos antes do início da
     sua implementação, principalmente quando há distintos níveis de governo
     envolvidos.

   · ICR chama a atenção para o desenvolvimento de uma matriz que defina metas
     que possam ser razoavelmente atribuíveis às ações do projeto e o cuidado na
     definição de indicadores que não tenham viés de aferição.

   · o ICR destaca que a política de reestruturação do Banco oferece mecanismos
     para o ajuste das atividades e indicadores quando a implementação do projeto
     indique problemas na definição original ou no alcance dos objetivos propostos.
     No entanto, os processos que envolvem esta revisão nem sempre são factíveis
     (tanto pelo lado do BIRD como dos governos) em função do tempo disponível
     para a finalização do contrato de empréstimo, como foi o caso do Projeto
     Saúde Bahia. O BIRD reenfatiza a necessidade de adoção de mecanismos mais
     flexíveis que permitam os ajustes, quando necessários, ou a definição de
     objetivos e indicadores que permitam adaptações e ajustes sem necessidade de
     reestruturação formal do projeto. A SESAB chama-se a atenção que, no caso
     dos indicadores, esta observação é contraditória com a necessidade apontada
     no ICR de maior precisão dos mesmos, para se evitar vieses de aferição e de
     interpretação. A experiência da SESAB com o monitoramento e avaliação do
     Projeto Saúde Bahia aponta para a necessidade da elaboração prévia de um
     modelo lógico do projeto que permita caracterizar (e ajustar, se necessário) a
     articulação entre os objetivos, as atividades e os resultados esperados para que
     possam ser elaborados indicadores apropriados. De todo modo, a SESAB
     enfatiza a flexibilidade do BIRD para a reprogramação das atividades do Plano
     de Implementação durante o período 2007/2009. Este fato, em paralelo aos


                                         73
      esforços da gestão da SESAB, possibilitou a conclusão da implementação do
      Projeto Saúde Bahia com resultados satisfatórios, ainda que, pelo fato da
      maior parte das ações terem sido realizadas neste último período, seus efeitos
      só poderão ser melhor aferidos prospectivamente.

9. Comentários sobre as questões levantadas pelo Mutuário.

Não há comentários no ICR.




                                        74
INVESTIGAÇÃO C: GRAU DE OBTENÇÃO DOS RESULTADOS
ESPERADOS EXPRESSOS NO MODELO LÓGICO DO PROJETO
(SUMMARY)

Ao final deste estudo pode-se inferir que houve concordância entre as características
de gestão do Projeto e seu grau de implantação, uma vez que ambos foram
considerados satisfatório. Já em relação ao grau de implantação e o grau de obtenção
dos resultados esperados expressos no modelo lógico, não houve concordância, visto
que este último foi considerado moderadamente satisfatório.

Entendendo interação como uma situação de sinergismo ou de antagonismo entre
diferentes fatores na produção dos efeitos (Denis JL & Champagne, F., 1997), é
inegável a interação das características do contexto institucional e a influência do
mesmo na implantação e nos resultados do Projeto. Assim como é inegável que outros
fatores, além dos aqui selecionados para análise, interagiram neste processo.

Estabelecer a relação entre os produtos alcançados e os resultados obtidos são de
extrema relevância por tratar-se de um alto investimento de recursos públicos que
deveriam ser revertidos em melhorias para a saúde da população. Entretanto, assim
como já tinha sido apontado no Relatório de Gestão 2007, foi constatado no presente
estudo que recursos do Projeto Saúde Bahia destinados ao custeio de muitas ações
foram gastos, a maioria dos produtos foram alcançados, porém os resultados
finalísticos não foram alcançados satisfatoriamente.

Sob este aspecto, vem à tona a reflexão de que ter um grau de implantação
satisfatório, com média 7,2, e o grau de obtenção de resultados, moderadamente
satisfatório, com média 5,7 , é muito pouco, considerando o volume de recursos
investidos.

Uma diversidade de problemas e fragilidades podem ser elencados em busca de
justificativas para tal situação e revelam-se como áreas críticas para futuros projetos e
para a instituição SESAB.

Alguns destes problemas eram inerentes ao próprio Projeto, seu formato e suas regras,
como lacunas no planejamento, ações com demanda considerável de recursos que
apresentaram baixo impacto e pouca resolubilidade, outras referem-se à
características de sua implantação como as frequentes mudanças no Plano de
Implementação, pouca articulação da UGP com as demais estruturas técnico-
administrativas da SESAB, falta de experiência da equipe em relação aos processos
do Banco, grande número de consultorias, prejudicando a memória técnica e a
reprodutibilidade das ações, inviabilidade de alguns editais de consultorias em razão
da ausência de currículos válidos e burocracia e morosidade nas respostas do Banco
Mundial.



                                           75
Outras dificuldades foram estabelecidas por fatores externos: pouca eficiência
administrativa nas DIRES; morosidade para definições por parte das áreas técnicas;
burocracia e longo período para as respostas da Procuradoria Geral do Estado;
eleições municipais e estaduais; baixa capacidade dos gestores e técnicos municipais
para operacionalizar os processos inerentes ao município, além da alta rotatividade
destes profissionais; dificuldade de acesso aos municípios por questões geográficas,
dificultando tanto a supervisão de técnicos da SESAB como a participação de
empresas nacionais nas licitações; empresas regionais, muitas vezes, não atendiam às
exigências dos editais; pouca sustentabilidade dos subprojetos municipais; falta de
acompanhamento sistemático das obras por parte dos municípios, na condição de
fiscalizador.

O próprio prolongamento da execução do Projeto fez com que ele ficasse mais sujeito
a riscos operacionais, mudança de taxa de câmbio, mudanças nas prioridades,
mudanças de gestão. De acordo com um informante por parte do Banco, o próprio
Desenho operacional do Projeto "prescreveu", os limites de aquisições, por exemplo,
não correspondiam mais a realidade de outros Projetos financiados pelo Banco.

Dentre as facilidades para a execução do Projeto, destacam-se a disponibilidade dos
recursos e a existência de uma unidade específica para o seu gerenciamento, atuando
como interlocutora entre a SESAB e o Banco. Notou-se, principalmente nos últimos
anos, grande compromisso por parte da UGP na busca pelo melhor desempenho do
Projeto, propondo ações mais articuladas, sustentáveis e eficientes.

A inserção do Projeto na matriz lógica do Planejamento Estratégico da SESAB e das
suas metas nas Agendas Estratégicas de 2007 e 2008 possibilitou um maior
acompanhamento institucional sobre o seu desempenho.

Pode ser destacado ainda que, se por um lado, a pouca especificidade dos objetivos e
de alguns resultados expressos no PAD, foi apontada inicialmente como um
problema, por outro, um informante por parte do Banco enfatizou que a forma como o
Projeto foi desenhado - um sistema com final aberto, representou uma facilidade. De
acordo com este informante, os objetivos macros expressos no PAD teriam permitido
evoluções no Plano de implementação (inclusões e exclusões), variando o input,
garantindo flexibilidade e se adequando às necessidades que surgiram ao longo do
tempo.

Sob esta lógica, o monitoramento sistemático ganha relevância uma vez que
permitiria ajustes para um final, que poderia ser aberto, porém sob controle. Quanto a
isso, uma crítica pode ser feita ao monitoramento do Projeto, o qual, concentrando-se
nos gatilhos, não acompanhou de forma adequada os demais resultados esperados.
Reconhecendo que o Saúde Bahia constitui-se de fato como uma janela para novas
experiências e novos projetos, algumas lições devem ser apreendidas:




                                         76
   · A elaboração de um modelo lógico durante o planejamento de um novo
     projeto evitaria inconsistências como as verificadas no Projeto avaliado;
   · A conformação de uma Unidade de Gerenciamento apresenta vantagens,
     porém, os problemas verificados referentes à falta de articulação entre a UGP e
     demais áreas técnicas da SESAB e a pouca responsabilização destas últimas
     pelos compromissos assumidos no Projeto, sugerem que mais válido e menos
     custoso para instituição seria a existência de profissionais inseridos nas áreas
     técnicas, com função específica e atuando como verdadeiros articuladores;
  · A contratação de consultorias deve estar condicionada à transferência do saber
     e da tecnologia por parte do consultor para os profissionais da área, a fim de
     garantir a memória tecnológica e reprodutibilidade do produto;
   · Devem ser estabelecidas estratégias que garantam a agilidade de processos que
     inevitavelmente precisam de aprovações do Banco, da Procuradoria Geral do
     Estado ou outros órgãos.

Por fim, a partir deste estudo, confirma-se que as características favoráveis para a
implantação adequada de uma intervenção em saúde extrapolam a esfera técnica e
relaciona-se também com o projeto de governo e com a governabilidade. Esta
constatação amplia a importância da capacidade de governo, uma vez que,
provavelmente, este é o vértice do triângulo mais suscetíveis a mudanças. Estratégias
como a formação de quadros de profissionais adequados e uma maior
institucionalização do planejamento e da avaliação, poderão contribuir para a
superação de lacunas como as identificadas no presente estudo (Vieira­Da-Silva,
L.M., Hartz, Z.M.A., Chaves, S.C.L., Silva, G.A.P., PAIM, J.S., 2007).


                            CONSIDERAÇÕES FINAIS

No campo da Saúde Pública, a avaliação de serviços é área de extrema relevância, já
que viabiliza escolhas para planejamento e possibilita um controle técnico e social dos
serviços e programas prestados à sociedade (DESLANDES, S. F., 1997). O presente
estudo de avaliação enfatizou os aspectos relacionados ao processo de implantação do
Projeto e às relações estabelecidas entre os principais atores envolvidos. Tal enfoque
foi priorizado não apenas pela inviabilidade, já discutida, de avaliar o impacto do
Projeto, mas pela importância de verificar a experiência obtida e a aprendizagem
institucional acumulada a fim de contribuir para o aprimoramento de novos projetos
que venham a ser executados pela SESAB em parceria com organismos
internacionais.

Apesar de todos os avanços, seis anos depois, um trecho do primeiro Relatório de
Desempenho do Projeto ainda é pertinente: "Os compromissos assumidos pelo
Governo do Estado da Bahia para implementação das ações do Projeto só poderão
demonstrar a consistência de seus resultados e impactos com o avanço no processo de
regionalização e reorganização do modelo de assistência, através do fortalecimento da


                                          77
atenção básica." Reconhece-se que para dar conta desses desafios, muito há que se
avançar do ponto de vista institucional.

Como grandes conclusões deste relatório, destacam-se a complexidade do Projeto, as
inconsistências do planejamento inicial e a dificuldade da SESAB em superar tais
entraves de forma adequada, o que passou a acontecer apenas nos últimos anos do
Projeto.

Quanto às características do estudo merece destaque que esta avaliação apesar de ter
uma perspectiva externa, trata-se de uma demanda interna com diálogo entre diversos
atores envolvidos.

Sobre a metodologia adotada, os critérios utilizados pautaram-se na literatura
existente sobre o tema, porém não negligencia a interação de diversos outros fatores.
A utilização de valores médios das notas mascara os extremos atribuídos, porém a
disponibilidade dos dados permite outras análises posteriores.

Há que considerar o viés importante de que a maioria dos informantes-chaves
assumiu suas funções a partir de 2007, apesar de alguns dirigentes destacarem que, ao
atribuírem as notas, consideraram o desempenho das duas gestões.

Finalmente, a descrição do processo de implantação do Projeto Saúde Bahia, que vem
se deu desde o estudo de avaliabilidade e culminou no presente relatório, fornece
dados e faz um registro de extrema relevância para a memória do Projeto e da
instituição SESAB.

  RELATÓRIO PRELIMINAR DE DESEMPENHO DO PROJETO SAÚDE
          BAHIA. (abril de 2003 a agosto de 2009) (SUMARY)

O Projeto Saúde Bahia teve um longo período de vigência, durante o qual ocorreram
duas eleições estaduais e duas municipais, mudanças na equipe de acompanhamento
e supervisão por parte do BIRD, nas equipes técnicas e dirigentes municipais,
estaduais e federais, além de mudanças nos contextos políticos, econômicos e sociais,
que marcaram a sua execução.

Esses fatores, associados ao que, na época da elaboração do Projeto, foi caracterizado
como baixa capacidade institucional da SESAB e dos municípios envolvidos nas
ações do Projeto, levaram a avaliação, pelo BIRD, de "Risco Considerável" para a
sua execução.

Este foi, também, um Projeto ambicioso, considerando a abrangência das ações
previstas que compreenderam desde construções e reformas até reorganização do
Modelo Assistencial do SUS, passando por estudos e planos de controle ambiental,
organização dos sistemas de regulação, dentre tantas outras propostas já discutidas ao
longo deste Relatório.

                                          78
O envolvimento de múltiplos atores e os distintos contextos político-institucionais
que influenciaram o desenvolvimento do Projeto ao longo desses anos levaram a
inúmeros ajustes e alterações no Plano de Implementação, caracterizando claramente
dois períodos, assim discriminados:

 · o período de 2003-2006, marcado por um elevado nível de gasto com as tarefas
   de gestão do próprio Projeto; baixa capacidade técnico-operacional da UGP e
   demais áreas da SESAB relacionadas ao Projeto - levando a contratação de um
   grande volume de consultorias, inclusive para a elaboração de Termos de
   Referência; inadequação dos processos de acompanhamento e avaliação do
   Projeto por parte da UGP e um baixo nível de execução ­ apenas 34,2%.
   Chama-se a atenção que somente em 2006 o Projeto obteve a classificação de
   "Moderadamente Satisfatório", de acordo com o sistema de avaliação do Banco
   Mundial.
 · período de 2007-2009, caracterizado por mudanças significativas na gestão da
   saúde na Bahia, foi marcado inicialmente por um longo período de negociação
   com o BIRD para rever e adaptar o Plano de Implementação às novas
   prioridades da gestão estadual, corrigir as inconsistências acumuladas ao longo
   dos anos anteriores e enfrentar o desafio de elevar (num curto espaço de tempo)
   o nível de execução do Projeto, sem perder de vista o compromisso de finalizar
   o contrato de empréstimo com o pleno cumprimento das metas.

Apesar dos problemas como a falta de agilidade técnico-administrativa em algumas
áreas da SESAB, a morosidade no retorno dos processos encaminhados à
Procuradoria Geral do Estado - PGE e a do próprio BIRD na resposta às solicitações
das Não Objeções, este último período foi marcado por avanços importantes na gestão
e na execução do Projeto: a vinculação da UGP diretamente ao Gabinete do
Secretário e sua reorganização técnico-administrativa; a incorporação das ações mais
relevantes do Projeto na Agenda Estratégica da SESAB ­ síntese do planejamento
institucional anual; melhoria na interlocução técnica BIRD/SESAB; implementação
de mecanismos de acompanhamento, monitoramento e avaliação do Projeto,
conseqüência da criação de uma gerência específica dentro da UGP - que virou
campo de estágio para Residentes do ISC/UFBA/SESAB (Residência
Multiprofissional em Saúde da Família); mudança da equipe de engenharia e revisão
dos mecanismos de acompanhamento e supervisão de obras e reorganização da
equipe e do processo de trabalho da Gerência de Aquisições, o que permitiu imprimir
maior agilidade e eficiência às licitações do Projeto. Esse esforço resultou na
avaliação do desempenho do Projeto como "Satisfatório" a partir de março de 2009,
pelos critérios do BIRD.

Apesar do pouco tempo disponível e dos problemas antigos e novos encontrados, foi
possível acelerar a execução do Projeto, chegando a 94,4% em novembro/2009.




                                        79
Considerando-se que em setembro de 2006 a execução era de apenas 33,6%, este
valor corresponde quase ao dobro do que foi executado no período anterior.
Considerando-se todo o período de execução do Projeto, é importante destacar
algumas das principais ações financiadas com recursos do contrato de empréstimo, a
saber: a consultoria-empresa que, dentre outros produtos, elaborou modelos de
contratualização; as consultorias que viabilizaram os cursos de Gestão Regionalizada
e de Especialização em Saúde da Família, além de dois cursos na área da Assistência
Farmacêutica; a consultoria individual contratada para a revisão da RESME; as
consultorias que desenvolveram os estudos necessários para a implantação da
Fundação Estatal de Saúde da Família e a consultoria que elaborou a avaliação da
implantação do Projeto.

Os efeitos destas ações ­ em sua maioria processuais - na estruturação do SUS na
Bahia só poderão ser percebidos a longo prazo. Contudo, destaca-se o elevado volume
de investimentos na infra-estrutura da rede pública de saúde na Bahia com recursos
do Projeto, que tem impacto potencial imediato no desenho institucional do SUS
neste Estado, citando-se como exemplos: obras e equipamentos para Unidades de
Saúde da Família - viabilizando a expansão desta estratégia para reorganização da
Atenção Básica ­ e para Centrais de Regulação; equipamentos para laboratórios e
hospitais de média complexidade; ambulâncias, equipamentos e material de consumo
para a rede de urgência e emergência no enfrentamento das epidemias de dengue e da
pandemia de influenza; equipamentos de informática para diversas áreas técnicas da
SESAB, destacando-se neste particular os destinados à Auditoria, reforçando uma das
áreas mais estratégicas para a consolidação do SUS.

Por fim, destaca-se que o alcance dos macro-objetivos do Projeto Saúde Bahia -
descritos como a melhoria das condições de saúde da população baiana, ampliando o
acesso, a equidade e a eficiência do setor - exige ações coordenadas de governo e é
resultado de políticas sociais e econômicas efetivas, que transcendem o escopo das
ações setoriais. No entanto, é inegável que projetos desta natureza, pela sua
concepção e pelo diagnóstico das condições de implantação do SUS na Bahia no
início e durante boa parte da década atual, podem contribuir para aumentar a
efetividade das ações de saúde. E isto será tão mais verdadeiro quanto mais
delimitado e preciso forem seu objeto de intervenção e seus mecanismos de
acompanhamento e avaliação. Esta é uma das grandes lições dos seis anos de
execução do Projeto Saúde Bahia.




                                        80
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    81
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


- Project Appraisal Document
- Aide Memoires (preparation and supervision missions)
- Project Progress Reports
- RELATÓRIO PRELIMINAR DE DESEMPENHO DO PROJETO SAÚDE BAHIA
(abril de 2003 a agosto de 2009). November, 2009




                                    82
                                                             To Ciudad Guayana
                                   70°W                                                             60°W                                                                     50°W                                                       40°W
                                                       R.B. DE                                      GUYANA
                                                     VENEZUELA
                                                                                                                        SURINAME
                                                                                                                                                        French
                                                                                                                                                        Guiana                                                                                                                               BRAZIL
                                                     r i n oc                                                                                            (Fr.)                                                 AT LA NT IC




                                                     O
                                                             o
                         COLOMBIA                                                       Boa Vista
                                                                                                                                                                                                                O CEA N
                                                                                                                                                              AMAPÁ                                                                                                                       STATE CAPITALS
                                                                                           RORAIMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                              Macapá
                 0°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0°                    RIVERS
                                                                                    Ne                                                                    zon
                                                                                      gro                                                              Ama                                                                                                                                MAIN ROADS
                                                            A                m              a       z      o           n                                                              Belém
                                                                                                                                                                                                                São Luís
                                                                                           Manaus                                                                                                                                                                                         RAILROADS
                                                                        Am
                                                                             az o




                                                                                                                                         jó s
                                                                                    n                                                                                                                                                          Fortaleza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STATE BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                       pa
                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                        Ta




                                                                                                             eir
                                                                                                          ad
                                                                        B a s i n                                                                                                                                            Teresina                     RIO GRANDE




                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                                                                              PA R Á                                 MARANHÃO                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CEARÁ             DO NORTE
                                      AMAZONAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Natal
                                                                    u
                                                                   s




                                                                 Pur




                                                                                                                                                                u
                                                                                                                                                            Xing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PARAÍBA         João




                                                                                                                       Tele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PIAUÍ                                            Pessoa




                                                                                                                            s
                                                                               Porto Velho                                                                                                                                                PERNA




                                                                                                                                                                                         Tocantins
                                                                                                                           Pir
                                                                                                                                  es                                                                                                             MBUC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O           Recife
                               ACRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Maceió




                                                                                                                                                                            ia
                                      Rio Branco                                                                                                                                                                           o
                                                                                                                                                                                         Palma                           sc




                                                                                                                                                                      Aragua
                 10°S                                              RONDÔNIA                                  Juruena                                                                                                                                       ALAGOAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Aracaju




                                                                                                                                                                                                                São Fr
                                                                                                                                                                                 TOCANTINS                           BAHIA
                                                                                                                                   MATO                                                                                                               SERGIPE
                           PERU                                                                                                   GROSSO
                                                                                                          Mato Grosso                                                             B r a z i l i a n                                            Salvador
                                                                                                            Plateau
                                                                                                                                             Cuiabá                                     F.D.
                                                                                                                                                                          BRASÍLIA
                                                                  BOLIVIA
                                                                                                                                                                    GOIÁS           Goiânia          MINAS GERAIS

                      PA C IF IC                                                                To                                                                               H i g h l a n d s
                                                                                            Santa Cruz
                                                                                                                           MATO GROSSO                                                                          Belo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ESPÍRITO
                      OC E AN         CHILE                                                                                   DO SUL
                                                                                                                                                                           Grande                             Horizonte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SANTO
                                                                                                                       Paragu y




                 20°S                                                                                                                        Campo                                                                                                                20°S
                                                                                                                                             Grande                                                                          Vitória
                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                             a




                                                                                                    Santa Cruz
                                                                                                                                                                      SÃO PAULO
                                                                                                                                                          á
                                                                                                                                                        an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RIO DE
                                                                                                                                                        r
                                                                                                                                                      Pa




                                                                                                          PARAGUAY                                                                São Paulo                   Rio de         JANEIRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Janeiro
                                                                                                                                                            PARANÁ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AT L AN T I C
                                                                                                                                                                                   Curitiba
                                          BRAZIL
                                                                                                                                                                                     STA CATARINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OCE AN
                                                                                                                                                                                     Florianópolis

                                                                                                                                             RIO GRANDE
                                                                                                                                                DO SUL
                                                                                                                                                                      Porto Alegre
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0        200           400      600 Kilometers           30°S
                 30°S                                              ARGENTINA
SEPTEMBER 2009




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 33377R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                            To Buenos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                 Aires
                                                                                                                           URUGUAY                                                                       0                   200          400 Miles                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                              70°W                                                       60°W                                                         50°W                                                   40°W
                                                                                                                                       To Montevideo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 37837
                                    46° W                                       44° W                                                           42° W                                                        40° W                                                         38° W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PERNAMBUCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Rodelas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Curaçá



                                                         PIAUÍ                                                                                                                                                                                           Paulo Afonso                                                                                         BRAZIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ALAGOAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BAHIA HEALTH SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Juazeiro



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REFORM PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                   Sobradinho                                                                                          Geremoabo                                  10° S
10° S
                                                                                                                                                   Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Monte
                                                                                                                                                                                       Senhor do Bonfim                              Santo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Cícero
                                                                                          Buritirama
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Dantas                         SERGIPE                                                      EXISTING PAVED ROADS
                                                                                                                                                        Umburanas
                                                                                                                                 Xique-Xique                                                                       Itiuba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Tucano
        TOCANTINS



                                                                                                                                                   Juçara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ribeira do Amparo                                                                  STATE CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Jacobina




                                                                                                                 sco
                                                                                                                                                        Irecê                                                    Capim                                 Olindina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        STATE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                       Morro do                                  Grosso




                                                                                                             nci
                                                                                                                                                Lapão                                                                                                                                To Aracaju
                                                                                                                                                                        Chapéu




                                                                                                        Rio São Fra
                                                                                                                                                             Canarana                             Várzea
                                                                                                                                        Barra do                                                  do Poço                            Serrinha                 Apora                                                                                     STATE BOUNDARIES (INSET)
                                                                                                                                        Mendes                                 Porto Feliz
                                                                                                                                  Ipupiara                                                                   Baixa
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Grande                                                                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)
                                                               Angical

                                                                                                                                       B A HI A
                                             Barreiras                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12° S
12° S                                                                                     Javi           Ibotirama                                                                                                                       Feira de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Santana                      Alagoinhas
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Rui Barbosa
                                                                             Pirajiba              Oliveira dos
                                                                                                      Brejinhos                                                                                                                                                         Pojuca
                                                                                                                                                Seabra                                                           Paraguaçu                    S. Amaro
                                                                                                                                                                                             Itaberaba
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ri




                                                                                                                                                                                                          o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Candeias
                                                                                                                                                              Andara                                                        S. Antônio                                Simões Filho
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Milagres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               de Jesus                                 Lauro de Freitas
                                                                                                                      Macaúbas                                                                 Marcionílio
                                                                                                                                                                                               Sousa                                                Nazar      SALVADOR
                                                                Santa Maria                         Bom Jesus da Lapa
                                                                  da Vitória                                                                                                                      Maracás                                       Valença
                                                                                                                                               Paramirim                                                           Itaquara
                                                                                                                                                            Livramento
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Jaguaquara
                    GOIÁS




                                                                                                    Riacho de
                                                                                                      Santana
                                                                                                                                                                                        de Contas              Jequié
                                                               Coribe                                       Igaporã                                                                o




                                                                                                                                                                               Ri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Camamu
                                                                                                                                      Caetité                                                                                                                                                     14° S
14° S                                                                                                          Guanambi                                                       Sussuarana
                                                                                                                                                   Brumado
                                                              Cocos         Carinhanha                                                                                                                                  Ipiaú
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                      To Brasília                                                                Tuiú                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                               Anagé                                                                                                                                                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Floresta                                                                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Nova              Azul                        Ilhéus
                                                                                                                                                                          Vitória da              Canaã                                   Itabuna

                                                                                                                                                              Tremedal
                                                                                                                                                                          Conquista
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ATLANTIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                Itambé                                                                                                                              R.B. DE         GUYANA           FRENCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VENEZUELA                          GUIANA (Fr)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SURINAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Santa Luzia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OCEAN                                COLOMBIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IM                    AMAPÁ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Atlantic Ocean
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Canavieiras


16° S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16° S                          AMAZONAS                                                          ÃO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PARÁ




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CEARÁ     RIO GRANDE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DO NORTE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MARA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PARAÍBA
                                                                                                                                                             To Teófilo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BRAZIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOC
                                                                                                                                                               Otoni                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PIAUÍ      PERNAMBUCO

                                                                                        MINAS GERAIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ACRE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ALAGOAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Itabela        Porto Seguro




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Guaratinga                                                                                                                     RONDÔNIA                                                                     SERGIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BAHIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MATO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PERU                                          GROSSO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Brasília
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Itamaraju                                                                                                                                   GOIÁS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BOLIVIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MINAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MATO                          GERAIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Prado                                                                                                              GROSSO                                       ESPÍRITO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DO SUL                                       SANTO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SÃO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Alcobaça                                                                                                                           PAULO                 RIO DE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Pacific Ocean
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Teixeira                                                                                                                  PARAGUAY                                      JANEIRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            de Freitas                                                                                        CHILE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Caravelas                                                                                                                   PARANÁ
                                             0           50           100       150          200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  18° S                                                                      SANTA
18° S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CATARINA
                                                               KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ARGENTINA                 RIO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GRANDE                             Atlantic Ocean
                                                                                                                                                                                           ESPÍRITO                                                                                                                                                              DO SUL

                                                                                                                                                                                                               To Vitória
                                     46° W                                        44° W                                                          42° W                                      SANTO                                                                             38° W                                                                          URUGUAY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAY 2010
3
