Document of
The World Bank,    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2936-GUA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO GUYANA FOR
A SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
January 12, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Through December, 1972 1/
US$1.00    =    G$ 2.093
G$ 1.00    =    US$0.48
December, 1973
US$1.00    =    G$ 2.105
G$ 1.00    =    US$0.475
December, 1974
US$1.00    =    G$ 2.229
G$ 1.00    =    US$0.449
Since October, 1975
US$1.00    =    G$ 2.550
G$ 1.00          US$0.392
ABBREVIATIONS
BIDCO    -  Bauxite Industrial Development Company Limited
CARICOM  -  Caribbean Common Market
CDB      -  Caribbean Development Bank
CIDA     -  Canadian International Development Agency
EDF      -  Export Development Fund
GEC      -  Guyana Electricity Corporation
GUYSUCO  -  Guyana Sugar Corporation Limited
IDB      -  Inter-American Development Bank
IMF      -  International Monetary Fund
UK-ODA   -  U.K. Overseas Development Administration
OPEC-SF  -  OPEC Special Fund
UNDP     -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID    -  U.S. Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ The Guyanese dollar floated with pound sterling from
July 1972 to October 1975 when the Government announced
its linkage to the US dollar at G$ 2.55 = US$1.00.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUYANA
LOAN FOR A SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Borrower:              Guyana
Amount:                US$1.5 million equivalent
Terms:                 20 years, including five years of grace at
9.25% interest per annum
Project Description:  The proposed technical assistance loan supports
the related structural adjustment loan and credit
which is being submitted separately. It aims at
promoting institutional capacity to support
export-oriented manufacturing industries and
assisting the Government in monitoring the
execution of the public sector investment
program and in controlling expenditures. It
includes financing of about 100 man-months of
consultant and expert services to (i) establish
an Export Development Fund (EDF), (ii) carry
out export market studies, (iii) provide advisory
services in industrial development and export
promotion, and (iv) strengthen the monitoring
of the execution of the public sector investment
program and improve expenditure control systems.
On-the-job training of local staff in these
activities would be provided. Risks involved
in project execution would arise from shortage
of counterpart staff and delays in decision-
making on the selection and appointment of
consultants and experts. Nevertheless, since
the Government is committed to carry out the
structural adjustment program as early as
possible, the risks may turn out to be minor.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
----------- US $  000   …
Local      Foreign 1/    Total
Consultant/Expert services for
establishment of EDF                 50           170           220
Expert Market Studies and
Services for export promotion        60           160           220
Expert Services for industrial
policy and development               60           160           220
Expert Services for monitoring
and execution of investment
program                             120           500           620
Contingencies
Physical                             30           100           130
Price                               180           410           590
Total                              500          1500          2000
1/   Includes salaries, overheads, fees and allowances and international
travel.
Financing Plan:
US$-000
Bank                          1,500
Government                      500
2,000
Estimated Disbursements:
US$'000
FY81         FY82           FY83
Annual            500           800            200
Cumulative        500          1300           1500
Appraisal Report:      None



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO GUYANA FOR A SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Guyana of the equivalent of US$1.5 million for technical assistance related
to structural adjustment of the economy. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 9.25% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.        An economic mission visited Guyana in May 1980 and an economic report
has been distributed to the Executive Directors ("Economic Memorandum on
Guyana" [3015-GUA] of June 9, 1980). Annex I contains the basic country data.
3.        Guyana's economy is based on the export of sugar, rice, bauxite and
alumina. Economic activity and population are concentrated along a narrow
coastal strip where sugar and rice are grown. With the exception of bauxite
mining, the hinterland remains undeveloped. When Guyana gained its inde-
pendence in 1966, much of the economy was owned and controlled by foreign
enterprises operating principally in bauxite mining and alumina processing,
sugar production and retail trade. The indigenous private sector was limited
to local trading and agricultural activities. Shortly after independence the
Government sought to gain control over national assets through acquisition of
foreign-owned enterprises, created new state-owned financial institutions and
nationalized the bauxite/alumina and sugar industries. The growing role of
the public sector was reflected in the increase of its share of gross domestic
capital formation from 40% in 1968 to about 80% in 1979. At the same time,
the Government gave high priority to development of the cooperative sector, to
an equitable distribution of income, and to the satisfaction of basic needs
such as for food, housing, health care and education.
4.        In recent years, the country's economy has been adversely affected
by a number of factors, including poor weather conditions, difficult industrial
relations, the exodus of technical and managerial personnel and deteriorating
terms of trade. The 1974 sugar price boom temporarily compensated for the
increase in petroleum and other import prices, but, when sugar prices returned
to lower levels in 1976, the economy experienced serious difficulties. The
boom in sugar earnings encouraged a greatly expanded level of public sector
expenditures and a concomitant high import bill in 1975, neither of which
could be sustained. Public sector investment in 1976 rose to over 30% of
GDP. At the same time, public sector savings fell from about 7% of GDP the
previous year to about 2% and the balance of payments registered a record
1/   This section is the same as Part I of the President's Report on the
Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit (Report No. P-2935-GUA, dated
January 12, 1981).



- 2 -
current account deficit of over 30% of GDP. Net international reserves became
negative. The economic situation continued to deteriorate in 1977. The
authorities tried to cope with this situation by cutting back imports and
reducing public investment, but international demand for bauxite/alumina
declined and a prolonged strike affected sugar production adversely. Real GDP
fell by 5%, export value declined by 7%, net foreign exchange reserves dropped
further, and the country's commercial arrears reached US$32 million by the end
of the year.
Recent Economic Developments
5.        The Government made concerted efforts in 1978 to alleviate the
country's severe economic problems. It entered into a one-year Standby
Agreement with the IMF that year, which provided SDR 15 million over a 12-month
period. The Standby Agreement included measures aimed at improving Central
Government finances such as reductions in subsidies to consumers, and increases
in prices of goods and services produced by public enterprises as well as
providing for an increase in interest rates, reduced imports and removal of
restrictions on foreign companies transferring depreciation funds. A Bank/IDA
program loan and   credit which began to disburse in the latter part of 1978
provided another US$10 million. The primary objectives of the program loan
and credit were to support the short-term stabilization program and, simul-
taneously, an export-oriented development strategy including, inter alia, a
well-designed investment program and financing plan, the timely execution of
export-oriented development projects, and the introduction of appropriate
prices for goods and services produced by state enterprises. As a consequence
of the impact of improved export volume on the finances of the Guyana Sugar
Corporation (GUYSUCO) and the Guyana Rice Board (GRB), and through fiscal and
monetary measures aimed at mobilizing domestic resources and restraining
demand, the Government was able to increase public sector savings from minus
2% of GDP the previous year to plus 5%, and to reduce the current account
deficit on the balance of payments from 22% of GDP to 6%. Public sector fixed
investment was set back to 20% of GDP, the lowest level since independence.
Commercial arrears were reduced by US$10 million, and by the end of the year
net international reserves had increased by US$12 million.
6.        The Government thus was, for the most part, successful in meeting the
monetary and fiscal targets established under the Standby Agreement, but the
expected growth in the economy did not occur. Efforts to control imports
resulted in increasing shortages of intermediate goods and spare parts, lead-
ing to a depletion in productive capital stock and a deterioration in services
that interrupted production and retarded economic activity. As a consequence
of the import cutback, investment reductions and power shortages, real output
virtually stagnated in 1978. The consumer price index rose by an average
annual rate of about 20%, reflecting the removal of subsidies, an increase in
indirect taxation, shortages of goods, and an upward adjustment of the prices
and rates charged by the public enterprises.
7.        Economic conditions continued to deteriorate in 1979, with real GDP
falling by about 3%. Although the Government for the most part adhered to
the adjustment programs, poor weather and labor difficulties led to production
declines in all three major export commodities. These difficulties exacerbated
unemployment, which rose to over 20% of the labor force in 1979. Reduced



- 3 -
revenues of the major public corporations and rapidly increasing interest
payments on debt contributed to a lower level of public sector savings, while
declining export receipts and rising outlays for imports, due largely to a 50%
rise in petroleum prices, led to an increase in the current account deficit of
the balance of payments to about 14% of GDP. Inflation remained at about 20%.
Although a three-year Extended Fund Facility (EFF) was negotiated in June 1979,
the-Government found itself unable to meet its targets as a result of re-
duced public sector revenues. As a consequence, the Agreement was interrupted.
In 1980, the Government introduced a number of measures to improve the pro-
ductivity of labor, including an increase in tax allowances, a reduction on
the margins allowed to public enterprises, and a modest wage award. At the
same time, it took measures to increase public sector revenues, including the
introduction of an 8% consumption tax on imports, increases in excise taxes,
and higher electricity and transportation tariffs. Despite these efforts,
public sector savings deteriorated in 1980. In order to lay the base for
resumed economic growth and balance of payments stability, the Government
entered into a new extended facility with the IMF in June; the details of
the program are described below. While the response of the economy to the
provisions of the program supported by the EFF has not been as rapid as origi-
nally foreseen, a modest economic recovery appears to be under way, with
improvements in rice, calcined bauxite and alumina production over 1979 levels.
8.        In sum, during the last few years, the country has undergone a
painful adjustment process in an attempt to stabilize the balance of pay-
ments, reduce commercial arrears, and adjust consumption to a level commen-
surate with resource availabilities and investment requirements for sustained
GDP growth. The level of economic activity during these years has been
reduced by the unavoidable short-term effects of the adjustment process,
and also, particularly in 1979, by other unfavorable factors referred to
above--increases in oil prices, adverse weather and labor problems. These
reverses have underscored the importance of reconciling the short-term
exigencies of Guyana's adjustment process with the requirements for achieving
consistent economic growth and employment generation over the medium and
longer term. In particular, they have emphasized the need to take steps
toward resolving long standing constraints to increasing and sustaining
investment, savings and output levels. The scarcity of managerial, technical
and administrative talents, especially in public enterprises, lack of en-
couragement for private sector activities, insufficient attention to mainte-
nance and rehabilitation of the country's physical infrastructure, inadequate
remuneration levels for technical, supervisory and managerial cadres and the
consequent exodus of such personnel are some of the key constraints which are
now receiving attention in the country's structural adjustment effort.
Actions to alleviate some of these constraints will be initiated in the
economic program which forms the basis of the proposed Structural Adjustment
Loan and Credit. The extent and intensity of the structural adjustment effort
needed to achieve the twin objectives of balance of payments stability and
economic growth will be substantial and the Government's program is - as it
must be - quite ambitious. Accordingly, external support for these efforts
would have to be continued until the mid-1980s, when ongoing projects in
agriculture, forestry, and energy would begin to make a substantial impact
on the economy.



- 4 -
PART II - DEVELOPMENT PROBLEMS AND PROSPECTS 1/
A. The Government's Economic Program
9.        Guyana's economic program aims at resuming economic growth, generat-
ing employment and strengthening the balance of payments through the develop-
ment and expansion of export-generating and efficient import-substituting
activities. In the short run, the program aims at improving utilization of
existing productive capacity, especially of exportable goods, the execution
of a production-oriented investment program in both the public and private
sectors, and a substantial increase in the level of national savings from an
estimated 8% of GDP in 1979 to about 16% by 1983. For the longer term, the
program is directed at facilitating the structural transformation of the
economy in the following ways: (a) sustained growth in the production of
agricultural commodities, of mining, fishing and forestry products, and of
nontraditional manufactures, and a simultaneous restraint in the rate of
growth of the government sector; (b) diversification of the output of the
productive sectors by the introduction of new activities and by the increased
processing of the products presently produced as raw materials, such as
timber, root crops, etc.; (c) substitution of the present huge imports of
fossil fuels by the eventual installation of hydroelectric power and also to
utilize local and imported sources of energy more efficiently; and (d) the
development of   industry to include in the longer run the smelting of aluminum
using hydroelectric power. By these means, the Government hopes to improve
the balance of payments position substantially, increase the proportion of
domestic value added retained by the bauxite sector, and lay the basis for
further development of industry over the longer term. This overall strategy
is a sound one, although the program is quite ambitious. While some of its
objectives might not be fully achieved during the program period--owing, for
instance, to unforeseen international economic developments--the main ones
could be within reach, provided that the Government continues the timely
implementation of the necessary policies, and that the international community
offers the required financial and technical support.
10.       Guyana's efforts over the last five years to adapt its policies
and programs to changes in the international economic environment have proven
inadequate. Under a system of administered prices, prompt revision of prices
and subsidies did not occur, with the result that incentives for producers
became weak. Although a system of incentive wages was instituted, inade-
quate premia for scarce technical and managerial personnel resulted in declin-
ing morale. Similarly, while an investment code was announced and encourage-
ment was provided to some private investors, there was lack of a comprehensive
and clearly articulated program for promoting the role of private investors.
Reduced production levels, inappropriate tariffs for public services, managerial
weakness, and inappropriate interest rate policy have contributed to persis-
tently low levels of both public and private savings. The steeply rising oil
import bill and a heavy external debt burden have drained scarce foreign
exchange resources.    In order to relieve these pressing constraints to the
1/   This section is the same as Part II of the President's Report on the
Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit (Report No. P-2935-GUA, dated
January 12, 1981).



- 5 -
structural adjustment effort, the Government has adopted, in consultation with
both the IMF and the Bank, a comprehensive program of institutional and policy
reforms. The Government's economic program, on which both the EFF arrangement
and the structural adjustment loan and credit are based, is described below.
The Extended Fund Facility (EFF)
11.       The economic program is supported by an Extended Facility arrangement
with the IMF which will provide SDR 100 million over July 1980-June 1983.
Under the provisions of the EFF, the Government is expected to work towards
the removal of price distortions, improvements in the productivity of labor,
increased agricultural yields, and improvements in the relationship between
Government and private sector, particularly through the removal of obstacles
to private initiative.   These efforts should lead to an improved growth
performance which is also predicated on the successful execution of the
public sector investment program. The Government is committed to the strict
observance of investment priorities based on sound economic and financial
criteria, and efficiency and coordination in the execution of approved invest-
ment projects. In this context, the Government plans to remain in close
contact with the Bank, in its capacity as coordinator of the Caribbean
Group for Cooperation in Economic Development, concerning the progress in the
formulation and execution of the public sector's investment program and any
substantial changes in its composition.
12.       In order to promote the stabilization of the public finances and
the balance of payments, the Government has agreed to limit the expansion of
credit during the first EFF program year (i.e., July 1980-June 1981).  In
particular, the EFF program provides for a set of ceilings on the combined
net credit to the nonfinancial public sector from the domestic banking system
and private foreign banks. The ceilings limit the increase in the above to
G$ 55 million in the first program year. The program also provides for a
significant reduction in commercial arrears and some rebuilding of gross
foreign exchange reserves.
13.       While the Government plans to make considerable progress towards
its goals of resumed economic growth with balance of payments stability
during the next three years, the EFF is predicated on the recognition that a
longer period of time will be required for Guyana to complete the adjustment
process. Accordingly, given a satisfactory performance, it is expected that
the IMF will continue to support the Government's economic program beyond
1983.
Energy
14.       Since Guyana must overcome its exclusive dependence on imported
energy to launch an effective program of growth and stability, the Government's
medium-term development strategy aims at rapid development of indigenous
hydropower resources. A decision on the specific investments to be undertaken
for this purpose is expected by August 1981, based upon studies supported by
the Bank's Power Technical Assistance Loan (approved in October 1980). At the
same time, surveys indicate the possibility of commercial discoveries of
hydrocarbons. Exploratory drilling is scheduled to begin in 1981. Over the
short-term, steps to promote the efficient use of energy resources and limit
petroleum imports are under way. The Government is undertaking the following
measures:



- 6 -
(a)  Under schemes financed by the USAID, studies are being undertaken
to assess the efficiency of energy utilization. Specific targets
for energy conservation are being adopted by several public sector
corporations. Some, such as the Guyana Mining Corporation (GUYMINE)
and the Guyana Sugar Corporation (GUYSUCO), have already instituted
effective energy conservation techniques. These major corporations,
as well as the Guyana Electricity Corporation (GEC), are monitoring
energy usage and are submitting periodic reports to the Cabinet on
progress made in energy conservation.
(b) Rehabilitation of the steam boilers and improved maintenance of
the diesel generating sets of the GEC, with technical assistance
financed by the UK, are under way. The upgrading of the manage-
ment of GEC is being accomplished through the IBRD-financed
technical assistance loan which would assess, inter alia, the
organizational structure, management capabilities, operational
procedures, etc., of the corporation and provide high-level
management support and on-the-job training for its staff.
(c) The use of indigenous energy sources such as bagasse, woodwaste,
rice husk, solar energy, etc., is being promoted by GUYSUCO
(in the use of bagasse) and through various investment projects;
(d) The Government has committed itself to take needed measures to
permit GEC to attain a break-even cash position by July 1981 and
gradually improve further its financial position over the medium
term. To this end, it has increased electricity tariffs by 45%
since November 1979 and plans to increase them by an additional 15%
in January 1981. GEC's main deficiency is not in its tariff levels
but in its acute lack of effective management and its inefficient
technical operations, characterized by abnormally high consumption
of fuel, electricity losses and frequent equipment breakdowns.
Further financial improvements will depend not only on tariff levels
but also on progress toward the solution of these technical and
administrative problems. The ongoing program of plant rehabilitation
and technical assistance should prove instrumental in achieving some
degree of cost reduction and improvements in efficiency. These
measures, as well as the recent 30% increase in tariffs of air,
water and road transport services, should promote more efficient use
of scarce petroleum imports.
(e) Studies to determine the most appropriate electricity and
transportation tariff structure, and to promote efficient use
of energy, are under way and will be completed by June 1981.
Export Development
15.       In order to reverse the downward trend in export volume which has
taken place during recent years, the Government has instituted an export action
program. The program is designed to bring about the rapid expansion of exports
through increased use of the existing production plant, the rapid execution of
ongoing investment projects to improve productivity and expand capacity, the



development of export markets, and the relief of foreign exchange constraints.
The Government is also preparing a long-term export action program which it
plans to complete by June 1981. The Government's export targets for 1981-83
assume the timely implementation of the required policies and the absence of
major negative developments in Guyana's export markets. Such targets are
as follows:
-----------Merchandise Exports-----------
Actual   Estimate          Targets
1979      1980      1981    1982      1983
Sugar ('000 tons)                     265        260       280     300       310
Calcined Bauxite ('000 tons)          542        625       750     800       860
Dried Bauxite ('000 tons)           1,004        900    1,000   1,100    1,200
Alumina ('000 tons)                   151        225       290     310       330
Rice ('000 tons)                       84         80       108     126       136
Timber (million cu. ft.)                 1.6       1.7       2.0     2.4       3.0
Shrimp and fish ('000 lbs.)           550        600       750   1,100    1,500
Molasses ('000 gallons)                 14.6      15.1      16.4    17.4      17.8
Rum ('000 gallons)                       2.9       3.2       3.8     4.1       4.4
Nontraditional Manufactures
(in 1979 G$ million)                 46         46       51       55       60
In order to reach these targets, the following specific programs are under way:
(a) Sugar: The production of sugar has faltered in recent years, re-
flecting in part inadequate maintenance of equipment, crop diseases inefficient
factories, strikes. An increased inflow of external resources will ease the
foreign exchange constraint which has heretofore prevented adequate maintenance
of the plant. The upgrading of equipment should permit more rapid replanting,
including the continued introduction of varieties which are resistent to smut
and rust diseases. The GUYSUCO is also expanding its wage incentive program
to increase worker satisfaction and tie wage increases more closely to labor
productivity. Production prospects are also enhanced by the existence of a
guaranteed market in the EEC. Given these factors, the volume of sugar exports
is targeted to increase by almost 20% over estimated 1980 levels by 1983.
Improved levels of sugar production will also be reflected in increased rum
and molasses output and export.
(b) Rice: The Government is attempting to promote increased production
and export in the rice sector in a number of ways. The rationalization of
pricing policies in the sector is anticipated to bring about a substantial
increase in acreage devoted to rice planting (see para. 16). The initial
execution stage of several large extension, storage and irrigation schemes
has already been reflected in increased rice yields; further increases in
yield from ongoing projects during 1981-83 are anticipated. The increased
availability of foreign exchange will permit expanded use of agricultural
inputs such as fertilizers and pesticides; a new fleet of tractors financed by
a Brazilian line of credit was acquired this year and has been put to work
in the fields. Essential support services, such as research, seed produc-
tion and extension are being intensified. The rice modernization scheme,
scheduled for completion in 1982, will reduce post harvest losses and improve



- 8 -
the quality of the rice product. The execution of ongoing projects is expected
to result in an acreage expansion of between 7 and 10% by 1983, laying the basis
for further production increases. USAID is providing technical assistance to
the Guyana Rice Board (GRB) to strengthen its management and identify new
export markets. Given these developments, the volume of rice exports is
targeted to increase by 70% during 1981-83.
(c) Fisheries: Technical assistance to the sector is being provided by
IDB. The Government is presently undertaking investments to increase the size
of the fleet, expand processing facilities and improve transportation, with
the assistance of the IDB, CIDA, EEC and the Japanese. These measures should
permit rapid expansion in shrimp and fish production for both domestic consump-
tion and export.
(d) Timber: The completion of the Upper Demerara forestry project,
together with increasing private sector timber production stimulated by the
provision of a CIDA-financed line of credit, should permit the volume of
timber exports to increase substantially over 1979 levels by 1983. Private
sector investment in wood curing facilities will permit further processing
into plywood in 1981. Recent arrangements to sell increased timber output
through European marketing agencies will facilitate the identification of
adequate export markets. At the same time, in order to increase the efficiency
of timber extraction, the Government will be initiating studies to improve
forestry leasing arrangements.
(e) Bauxite/alumina: The first phase of the ten-year development plan
for the bauxite/alumina industry provides for several measures to expand
production during the next three years. Earth moving to permit extraction of
the ore is under way and should be completed by the first quarter of 1982. In
order to improve the productivity of the alumina plant, GUYMINE has enlisted
the services of a multinational aluminum company to provide assistance for a
five-year period, with the purpose of increasing output to rated capacity
(310,000 tons) by 1982 and increasing the plant's capacity by 10% in 1983.
Technical assistance has also been secured to reduce the downtime of essential
machinery. The company is rehabilitating its processing plants, which have
been run down in recent years for want of spare parts. In addition, incentive
schemes have been expanded to improve productivity and to link increases in
pay with higher output.
(f) Nontraditional manufactures: Guyana has established an Export
Development Fund (EDF), to be supported by the proposed Structural Adjustment
Loan, which would provide credit and foreign exchange to export manufacturers.
In recognition of its important role in the manufacturing industry, the
private sector will be represented in the EDF Board. In addition, an Industrial
Development Adviser will be appointed, with responsibility for recommending
programs, policies and institutional arrangements for the manufacturing sector.
The adviser will act as a liaison between the industrial sector, both private



and public, and the Government, providing advisory services to financial,
managerial and exporting institutions in the industrial sector. The Government
has also set up an Export Promotion Unit, assisted by an Adviser, which will
identify and develop export markets for nontraditional commodities. An Export
Promotion Council to encourage exports of handicraft and other nontraditional
manufactures is also proposed.
Pricing Policies
16.       In order to promote the efficient allocation of scarce economic
resources, to contribute to public sector revenue generation, and to avoid an
undesirable subsidy burden on the budget, the Government is committed to the
gradual rationalization of pricing policies throughout the economy. In this
regard, a study is already under way to determine an appropriate pricing
structure for the rice industry. With a view to providing incentives for
intensive farming, improved productivity, and mobilization of additional
lands for rice cultivation, the producer price was increased by 19% during
November 1979-December 1980. The Government announced in December additional
increases of 12-15% effective January 1, 1981 so as to encourage rice farmers
to plant a larger acreage of rice. A corresponding upward adjustment in the
local selling price of rice is also planned. In the meantime, the ongoing
study will examine technological factors and economic relationships to deter-
mine the optimal relationship between producer prices, consumer prices, and
input prices in the rice industry. The ongoing study will also help establish
a system for adjusting the price of rice periodically. The result of the
study should be available by mid-1981. The reduction of the subsidy for sugar
to domestic consumers is also under consideration. The price of gasoline is
presently fully passed on to the consumer; the Government plans to continue
this policy. Increases in tariffs for public services including electricity,
public transport, and others were enacted this year (see para 15). The level
of tariffs will remain under continuous review, with further increases to be
enacted as required.
Improving Organizational and Managerial Efficiency
17.       Given the dominant role of the Government and public sector enter-
prises in the national economy, the economic recovery program depends critically
on improvements in both the organization and management of these entities and
effective coordination of activities among them. Actions to be taken under the
present phase of structural adjustment would focus on key aspects of financial
administration. Public finance administration is currently handled by both
the State Planning Commission and the Ministry of Finance. While the authori-
ties have established procedures for higher-level coordination between the
Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for collection and disbursement
of resources, both domestic and external, and the State Planning Commission,
which is responsible for budget preparation and authorization of expendi-
tures, there is need for further strengthening of these coordination mechanisms
at operational levels. The authorities have steadily improved coordination
between the Central Government's revenue collection and expenditures; these
efforts will be further strengthened through regular consultation between
the Ministry of Finance, the State Planning Commission and other relevant de-
partments beginning December 1, 1980. The improvement of accounting and auditing
arrangements throughout the public sector will receive particular attention.



- 10 -
Procedures for import licensing by the Ministry of Trade and Consumer Affairs
and allocation of foreign exchange by the Bank of Guyana to importers will be
simplified so as to accelerate the approval process. A Cabinet-subcommittee
was established to monitor external debt in 1978. The subcommittee receives
reports on the existing level of external debt and monitors the external
borrowing activities of all public sector agencies. These measures are
initial steps in an ongoing program of streamlining government procedures and
improving the quality of management in the public sector.
Investment
18.       Guyana's medium-term prospects for the resumption of economic growth
depend heavily on the timely execution of the public sector investment program.
The Government has already established a system for monitoring investment
expenditures through financial controls exercised by the State Planning
Commission. Each quarter the Commission submits a summary report on project
execution to the Project Monitoring Subcommittee of the Cabinet. To minimize
delays in project execution, the authorities are planning to expedite decisions
on such matters as awarding of contracts and through the delegation of greater
authority to project managers. The Government is planning to utilize external
technical assistance in order to identify and minimize potential bottlenecks
to project execution. In this regard, the proposed loan for a second technical
assistance project which is being submitted jointly with the proposed structural
adjustment loan and credit has a component directed toward assisting in the
monitoring of the public investment program and improving expenditure control.
At the same time, the Ministry of Works is being reorganized to include
specialized functions in engineering consultancy as well as additional
construction capability.
19.       The Government is also promoting expanded levels of private invest-
ment, both domestic and foreign. In this regard, the Government has already
been successful in attracting U.S., Canadian, French and German companies to
conduct oil, mineral and metal explorations. The Guyana Cooperative Agricul-
tural and Industrial Development Bank is making increased credit resources
available to the private sector with the financial and technical assistance of
the CDB, the IDB, and bilateral donors. To provide the private sector with
clear "rules of the game," the private sector investment code will be clarified
and expanded. Moreover, the employment of an Industrial Adviser and the
establishment of the Export Development Fund (see para. 15(f)) are expected to
help promote increased participation of the private sector in the economy.
National Savings
20.       The Government recognizes the need to increase the level of national
savings as a percentage of GDP (in current prices) from about 8% in 1979 to
15-16% in 1983 if the required investment effort is to be maintained. Such
improvement depends on rapid recovery and expansion in production of major
exports, the maintenance of an incomes policy and other policies directed
toward limiting the growth of real consumption levels, improvements in the
quality of public administration, and the increased confidence of the private
sector.



- 11 -
21.       With regard to Central Government savings, the authorities have
made strenuous efforts to reduce a persistent budgetary deficit during
the past four years. The Government enacted a number of tax measures in an
attempt to compensate for the loss of windfall revenues generated by the sugar
levy during 1974-76. It also substantially improved income tax collection
procedures, with the result that direct taxes increased from 9% to 11% of GDP
during 1976-79. As a consequence of these efforts, Central Government current
revenues accounted for 30% of GDP during 1979, as compared to less than 25% in
1973. In real terms, however, revenues have fallen during the past four years
as a consequence of declining levels of output. In an effort to reverse the
expansion in current expenditures which accompanied the 1975-76 sugar windfall,
the authorities have limited the average annual growth rate of current expendi-
tures to about 8% in nominal terms during 1976-80, a period during which
inflation averaged about 14% each year. Nevertheless, after improving slightly
in 1978, the current budgetary deficit has steadily worsened, and is estimated
to amount to about 9% of GDP in 1980 (as compared to the previous nadir of
about 7% in 1976).
22.       The Government is committed to reducing the budgetary deficit
substantially in 1981 to about G$ 100 million, about 6% of GDP, and to about
5% of GDP in 1983. It plans to accomplish these goals primarily through:
(a) increased revenues arising from the improved performance of the economy;
(b) continued improvements in tax collection and administration (in this
regard, the Government is seeking external technical assistance); and
(c) continued rigorous control of current expenditures, with a continued
decline in real spending for 1981 and thereafter. The reduction in the real
level of current expenditures will be possible without unduly affecting the
real level of compensation for public servants since the Government plans
to reduce subsidies, put public corporations on a self-sustaining basis, and
limit increases in public employment.
23.       An essential part of the Government's plan to increase the level
of public sector savings is to improve the performance of the nonfinancial
public enterprises, whose economic activities account for about 40% of GDP.
By following policies directed toward increasing the production and export of
sugar and bauxite/alumina, the Government plans to increase the gross receipts
of GUYSUCO and GUYMINE substantially. At the same time, through the rational-
ization of pricing policies (see para. 16), particular attention would be
given to those public corporations which generate deficits or minimal surpluses
with a view to gradually putting them on a commercial basis. Based on these
premises and assuming that the growth in real incomes is limited, the savings
generated by the nonfinancial public enterprises could rise from 5% of GDP in
1980 to 6% in 1981 and to about 9% of GDP in 1983. Assuming the Government
achieves the above targets and the National Insurance Scheme continues to
contribute about 4% of GDP in savings, public sector savings should increase
from 3-1/2% of GDP in 1979 to over 8% in 1983.



- 12 -
24.       The Government also plans to foster expanded private savings rates.
Efforts to promote increased use of existing capacity should lead to higher
production levels and larger surpluses on the part of private enterprises.
At the same time, the Government is committed to the rationalization of
interest rate policy in order to mobilize additional financial resources.
In this regard, bank deposit rates were increased by two percentage points
to an average of about 12.5% in 1980, with the annual rate of increase of
domestic prices about 18%.  The Government plans to move gradually toward
positive real interest rates through annual upward adjustments of 1-2%.
By encouraging private sector activity and through gradual rationalization
of the interest rate structure, the Government hopes to raise private sector
savings from an estimated 4% of GDP in 1979 to 8% in 1983.
Labor Productivity
25.       The Government is committed to improving the productivity of labor
as an essential part of its economic program. A number of labor disputes have
interrupted production and resulted in underutilization of capacity in recent
years. These have reflected, in part, the steady decline in workers' real
incomes. In order to promote increased production, minimize labor difficulties,
and provide Guyanese workers in all sectors with the opportunity of improving
their economic situation through their own efforts, the Government is broaden-
ing existing schemes for the provision of wage increases based on worker
performance, production incentives, and worker participation in ownership of
their enterprises. In this regard, the Government has already established a
system of salary differentials based on skills in the public sector. Incentive
systems are also in existence in the bauxite and sugar corporations. The
Government is extending these schemes throughout the public sector, thus
tying wage increases more closely to production performance. In addition,
the Government has already instituted a number of arrangements for increasing
worker participation in the management of enterprises and is seeking technical
assistance to extend the scope of on- and off-the-job training schemes to
include middle and senior management and skilled and semi-skilled technical
staff.



- 13 -
B. The Public Sector Investment Program and Financing Plan
26.       The 1980-82 investment program has been reviewed by Bank staff,
under the aegis of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development,
and found to be generally appropriate in magnitude and composition to the
prospective financial resources and development priorities of the Government.
The 1983 investment program is still under preparation and will be discussed
with the Bank prior to the 1981 Caribbean Group meetings. About 90% of the
1980-82 program consists of projects already underway; over half the program
reflects projects with committed external financing. In line with the develop-
ment strategy, the projects included in the program aim primarily at increasing
the volume and the quality of production for export. In addition, the program
includes import-substitution projects in consumer goods and food items. In
line with Guyana's development goals of export-oriented economic growth, over
80% of total public sector investment is allocated to the productive sectors
of the economy and related infrastructure. It should be noted that, while
Guyana's long-term economic strategy is largely based upon the development of
its large hydroelectric potential and related industrial activity, no major
investments are envisaged yet in the 1980-82 program, since the execution
of such investments is not likely to start until 1983.
27.       Agriculture (including forestry and fishery) accounts for almost 40%
of the investment program. The aim of the agricultural projects is to increase
production in major export crops, to diversify away from sugar into other
export crops and to increase production of other crops for domestic consumption.
The major portion of this investment is in three extension, storage and irriga-
tion projects for rice production (the Mahaica-Mahaicony-Abary (MMA), Black
Bush and Tapakuma projects), financed by the Bank, the IDB, and other external
lenders. Also included in the program is the Second Rice Modernization Project
financed by the USAID, which aims at minimizing post-harvest losses through
better storage and improving the processing and marketing systems in order to
increase rice output for exports. The execution of some of these projects is
behind schedule, and continuing government attention to the solution of their
implementation problems is required. However, the substantial progress
already made in improved water control, applied research, and extension
services has begun to show results through improved yields. Other agricultural
projects emphasize increases in dairy, oil palm, and food production. The oil
palm development project and the food crop production and marketing projects
would significantly reduce food imports while fully exploiting local resources
by the mid-1980s, thus generating foreign exchange savings, employment and
income.
28.       The program includes projects for strengthening the planning and
execution capacity of the agricultural sector. An agricultural sector planning
project financed by USAID would allow for more comprehensive planning of
programs and project analysis of data, monitoring and assessment of the sector.
IDB has expressed interest in assisting with the training of farm mechanics,
the improvement of machinery and equipment maintenance and the development of
an appropriate agro-services program. In addition, the program includes major
projects for the extraction of tropical hardwoods (the Upper Demerara Forestry



- 14 -
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM BY SECTOR, 19-79A2/1
CPercentage Distribution)-
Sector                                        Estimate          Planned                      1980-82
1979      1980        1981        1982                  Average
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries             31.9        35.6        40.1       41,0                    39,0
Tourism                                           -          0.2         0.4         0.1                    0.3
Industry                                         6.1         7.4         3.6        4.7                     5.1
Mining                                          18.4        14.7        15.2        11,2                   13.6
Power                                            2.8         4.6         5.4         6.8                    5.7
Transportation and Infrastructure               20.1        13.1        10.9        12.2                   12.2
Water Supply                                     1.6         2.4         2.0         1.5                    2.0
Education                                        3.5         8.9         7.6         7.2                    7.9
Health                                            l.b        2.0         3.5         3.9                     3.1
Housing                                           0.7        1.0         1.0         0.7                     0.9
Miscellaneous                                    13.1       10.1        10.3        10.7                    10.2
/1   Composition of public investment program for 1983 is yet to be determined.



- 15 -
Project and the Forestry Equipment Credit), a bagasse particle board factory,
the development of inland fishing resources and shrimp harvesting and processing.
The extraction and processing of high-value tropical hardwoods would be
substantially increased by the Upper Demerara Forestry Project, which is
expected to start producing by 1982. The bagasse residual from sugarcane
processing would be utilized to develop particle board to be exported
primarily to the North American market. Investments in the fisheries
sector are aimed at increasing the capacity of the fish port in Georgetown
and improving fish processing facilities in addition to developing inland
freshwater fish. These investments are expected to increase exports of
shrimp besides making available the bycatch as well as the freshwater fish
for local sale to help meet the nutritional needs of the population.
29.       Projects in the manufacturing and mining sectors account for close
to 19% of investment outlays. These include new investments in the bauxite
industry that, together with ongoing expansion programs, would increase the
production capacity for calcined bauxite by about 60%. Further development of
the bauxite operations is anticipated through a stripping and mining project
which commenced in November 1980 and will take about 20 months for completion.
Efficiency in bauxite operations would be enhanced by the installation of an
electrostatic precipitator to recover bauxite dust for processing into calcined
bauxite while foreign technical support would help in promoting improved
operation of the alumina plant. A feasibility study for Kaolin mining and
processing would determine the range of items which could be produced, and
identify the appropriate process design in the benefication plant to develop
new lines of exports. The completion of a number of small factories and new
industrial development projects have also been included in the 1980-82 program.
30.       Infrastructure projects in communications, power and transport
included in the program are essential to support the production-oriented
investment program and have been allocated about 18% of the total program.
The major investments in this sector would be to link Georgetown with the
Corentyne power system so as to make better use of existing generating capacity
and to construct road systems to support development of forestry and agricul-
ture. Apart from the completion of feasibility studies for the development of
Guyana's hydropower resources, investments in the power sector have been
planned to upgrade management capabilities and improve the operation and
maintenance of existing power facilities. While the scale, timing and finan-
cing of hydropower development have yet to be determined, significant expendi-
tures on large scale hydropower projects are unlikely to take place until
after 1982. In addition, investments have been planned to develop bulk-handling
facilities at shipping points for export of rice, rum, shrimp and lumber.
31.       Among the projects included in the social sector--which have been
allocated almost 14% of the total program--the education, training, health
care and water supply projects account for the bulk of the capital expendi-
tures. A substantial proportion of the amount allocated to education would
be utilized to complete the IBRD/IDA-financed Second Education Project. A
project to upgrade the levels of existing managerial skills has been included.
In the area of health care two projects--one financed by IDB and the other
to be financed by USAID--to improve medical and public health services in



- 16 -
rural areas have also been included. These projects would develop an integrated
three-tier system for supervisory, support and referral services. The provi-
sion of an extended water supply system is crucial to the development of the
Guyanese economy and projects to that effect have been included in the invest-
ment program; these investments include the rehabilitation of the Georgetown
water supply, the Linden water supply system, the CIDA-financed waterwell
drilling project and the rural wells program sponsored by the Netherlands.
32.       Other capital expenditures include projects such as rehabilitation
of public buildings, and community and youth development programs; these
investments account for about one-tenth of the total program. Approximately
90% of these expenditures are forecast to be financed from local sources.
33.       Guyana's efforts to achieve the objectives of its development
program in the medium and the longer term depend to a large extent on substi-
tution of domestic hydropower for imported fuels and on improved execution of
the three major irrigation projects (namely the Tapakuma, MMA and Black Bush
projects), the Upper Demerara Forestry project, the Second Rice Modernization
program, and some ongoing industrial projects. In order to ensure that
technical expertise is available for completing these projects on a timely
basis, the external agencies have provided financing for consultancy services
and training of Guyanese staff both in project management and export marketing.
Financing of Public Sector Investment
34.       Estimated public sector investment levels during 1981-83 1/ amount
to about G$1.4 billion in current dollars; external amortization payments are
expected to amount to another G$370 million, bringing total financing required
to about G$1.8 billion during the next three years. Assuming the economy meets
its production targets, and given the Government's plans to increase public
sector savings from 3-1/2% of GDP in 1979 to over 8% by 1983 (see para. 23),
public sector savings should be adequate to provide about one-fourth of
capital requirements; modest levels of domestic borrowing would contribute
another 11%. Project-related external resources, already committed, would
cover 23%; committed external budgetary support on concessional terms would
cover about 1%. The remainder of the financing, some G$725 million or about
40% of required financing will need to be mobilized from other external sources.
Approximately half of this amount might be mobilized from new project financing.
Given the size of Guyana's external debt burden and the shortage of local
counterpart funds, the remainder would need to be provided on concessional
terms and to be available to cover part of the local costs of the Government's
investment program. The resources to meet this need would be provided, inter
alia, the program-type assistance offered by the donor countries and insti-
tutions in the framework of the Caribbean Group, the proposed structural
adjustment loan/credit, and the oil facility established by Trinidad and
Tobago.
1/   The 1983 investment program is still under preparation.  The projected
level of investment for 1983 is based on Bank staff estimates which assume
the continuation of ongoing projects and modest levels of new investment.



- 17 -
C. Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
35.       Guyana has the resource endowment to increase output substantially
and improve the well-being of its people. Nevertheless, the economy's
dependence on bauxite/alumina, sugar and rice for production growth and
export receipts leaves it vulnerable to exogenous factors like weather and
international prices, as well as domestic problems such as uncertain labor
relations. Institutional weaknesses and a severe shortfall of managerial
and technical skills are a persistent drag to economic momentum. Assuming
the country substantially improves the management of key public sector
entities, limits production losses due to work stoppages, introduces and
continues the economic and financial policies discussed in Section A, enjoys
reasonably normal weather conditions, and promotes expanded participation of
the private sector in the economy, it might be able to raise output by as
much as 6% annually during 1981-83 and reach the export targets set forth in
para. 15. Even assuming a slower pace of export growth and of institutional
strengthening, some adverse weather and a somewhat delayed response on the
part of the private sectot, the economy could still achieve real growth rates
of about 3-1/2% annually during the period. The primary source of growth will
be increased use of existing capacity and, to some extent, improvements in
productivity and expansion of the production base as public investment projects
materialize.
36.       The attainment of future growth is predicated upon a level of gross
domestic investment averaging 26-27% of GDP during 1981-83. This level of
investment presumes the execution of the public sector investment program,
the rebuilding of depleted inventories, and a substantial expansion in private
sector investment efforts. To maintain this level of investment, the nominal
level of national savings will need to increase from about 8% of GDP in 1979
to 15-16% of GDP by 1983. Given the adoption of the measures discussed in
para. 20-24 above, this target, while high, is achievable. At the same time,
it is consistent with increases in real per capita private consumption of
about 2% annually during 1981-83. If, on the other hand, growth rates
average only about 3-1/2 % per year, per capita private consumption could rise
but slightly.
37.       Guyana's most pressing macroeconomic priorities during the next
three years are economic recovery, a strengthened balance of payments,
an expanded savings effort, and the execution of the public sector invest-
ment program. The achievement of these goals could set the stage for the
structural alteration of the economy mainly through the development of large-
scale hydropower resources, if possible on a scale large enough to support an
aluminum smelter in the late 1980s. By this means, the Government would
address the country's most critical external constraints: dependence on
imported energy and a persistent downward trend in the terms of trade.
38.       The scale of investment in the critical energy sector will depend
on the extent to which industrial development can proceed. As has been
indicated already, the development of aluminum smelting is the course of
industrialization preferred by Guyana, because of its potential comparative



- 18 -
advantage in this field arising from indigenous hydropower and bauxite
resources. The Government is now engaged in discussions with various aluminum
companies to determine their willingness to participate in the development of
the aluminum smelter complex on the assumption that the Upper Mazaruni project,
with a generating capacity of 750 MW, can be developed in the latter half of
the 1980s. The recently approved Bank loan to Guyana's power sector includes
a study of various hydropower projects ranging from 100 MW to 750 MW. If
commitments from potential smelter partners are delayed unduly, investments in
smaller or medium-sized hydropower project(s) will have to be programmed in
the early 1980s, so that energy imports for power generation could be reduced
as soon as possible.
39.       Any large-scale hydropower development to come on stream in the
late 1980s will pose a difficult challenge to the economy. Such a project
would be likely to dominate the investment effort in the middle 1980s, rais-
ing gross domestic investment to levels substantially higher than those
projected during the 1981-83 period. In preparation for any such development,
the authorities will need to identify at an early stage potential bottlenecks
with respect to management capacity of the public sector, the adequacy of
transportation and storage facilities, the availability of skilled and unskilled
labor and the shortage of domestic counterpart funds required to provide a
contribution to the project's financing. Appropriate courses of action which
recognize and address these constraints will also have to be formulated.
Prior to a final decision on construction of any large hydropower facility,
the authorities will also need to assess carefully its long-term macroeconomic
implications, including the impact on investment in other sectors, the effect
on movements in prices and wages, the level of associated construction required,
the impact on employment and growth, the implications for the balance of pay-
ments both during and after the construction period, and the effect on
Guyana's external debt burden. The Government is planning to consult with
the Bank on carrying out a careful analysis of these issues in the near
future.
Balance of Payments
40.       Balance of payments management will require achievement of several
objectives, in addition to the basic goal of maintaining imports at a level
sufficient to support the projected levels of economic growth. These include
(i) progressive reduction of the current account deficit as a percentage of
GDP (apart from the balance of payments impact of large externally financed
investment projects such as hydropower development) ; (ii) progress toward the
elimination of commercial arrears; (iii) rebuilding of depleted foreign
exchange reserve levels; and (iv) improvement in the structure of external
debt.
41.       Guyana has the potential of substantially improving its balance of pay-
ments during the next three years. Export prospects are reasonably favorable.
In the case of the high growth alternative (i.e. of about 6%), which presumes
the achievement of the export targets outlined in para. 15 above, exports in
real terms are projected to expand by 17% in 1981 and by 9% and 6% in 1982



- 19 -
and 1983 respectively. To support this rate of expansion, real imports would
need to increase by 8% in 1981 and by about 5% annually in 1982 and 1983,
sufficient to permit an expanded level of imports of intermediate and invest-
ment goods. In light of reasonably favorable prices projected for exports and
assuming    no further precipitous increases in real petroleum prices, the
current account deficit is expected to decrease from over 18% of GDP in 1980
to 14% in 1981 and to 11% in 1983, averaging about 12-1/2% during 1981-83.
Increased external inflows to the public sector, reflecting project financing,
the Trinidad and Tobago oil facility, and other concessional financing, toge-
ther with a somewhat expanded level of private capital inflows, should be
adequate to cover the current account deficit. At the same time, the avail-
ability of substantial foreign exchange resources from the IMF should permit
a substantial reduction in external arrears and some rebuilding of foreign
exchange resources.
42.        In the moderate growth case, the current account deficit would
improve less rapidly. Nevertheless, assuming the country achieves export
growth rates (expressed in 1977 dollars) of 14% in 1981, 8% in 1982 and 5% in
1983, and contains the growth of consumer goods imports, the current account
deficit could average about 13% of GDP during 1981-83, and still decline to
about 11-1/2% at the end of the period.
43.        The servicing of public external debt obligations has become an
increasing burden in Guyana in recent years with declining export receipts
in most of these years and increased amortization liabilities, in particular
from medium-term borrowings in commercial markets and nationalization loans.
In 1980 the Government took action to improve its external debt position
by refinancing about US$30 million of external commercial bank debt. The
service on the public and publicly guaranteed debt increased from 4% of
foreign exchange earnings in 1975 to about 25% in 1980. After the scheduled
repayment of a number of Eurodollar loans, it is projected to drop back to
21% in 1981, 16% in 1982 and to 14% in 1983, taking into account estimated
debt service on interim borrowing. These ratios assume the achievement of
the export targets, and would be slightly higher under the less optimistic
growth assumption. Provided that the authorities proceed with the economic
program described in Section A, and that a substantial part of the required
external resources are provided on concessional terms by the donor community,
Guyana may be considered creditworthy for limited borrowing on conventional
terms.



- 20 -
GUYANA - MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
(%)
Estimate                  High Growth                          Moderate Growth
1976-79         1980                 1983          1981-83                 1983         1981-83
Average                                            Average                              Average
As % of GDP
Consumption                                      85.2          87.5                 80.4            81.5                  81.0            82.3
Private                                      58.7           63.3                 59.5           59.9                   60.0           61.0
",ubl ic                                     26.5           24.2                 20.9           21.6                   21.0           21.3
Investment                                       26,6          24.5                 27.5            27.3                  26.7            26.4
Private                                       5.6            3.0                  6.5            5.3                    6.0             .4,
Public                                       21.0           21.5                 21.0           22.0                   20.7           22.0
Gross Domestic Savings                           14.8          12.5                 19.6            18.5                  19.0            17.7
Gross National Savings                            8.4           6.0                 16.5            14.7                  15.2            13.5
Private                                       6.3            5.5                  8.0             7.7                   7.5            7.4
Public                                        2.1            0.5                  8.5             7,0                   7.7            6.1
Exports of Goods and NFS                         62.7          63.0                 64.7            65.1                  65.n           64.8
Imports of Goods and NFS                         74.5          75.0                 72.6            73.9                  72.7            73.5
Resource Balance                              11,8          12.0                  7.9             8.8                   7.7            8.7
Current Account Balance                          18.2          18.5                 11.0            12.6                  11.5            12.9
Rates of Growth
GDPfc (1977 prices)                              -1.9           3.2                                  5.7                                   3.6
Exports (1977 prices)                            -5.1           8.7                                 10.8                                   8.7
Imports (1977 prices)                           -12.9           4.8                                  6.0                                   3.9
Consumption  per capita (1977 prices)            -2.5           5.7                                  1.1                                  -0.4
Private Consumption per capita (1977 prices)-3.1               10.6                                  1.7                                   0.3
Public Consumption per capita (1977 prices) -1.0               -5.4                                 -0.5                                  -2.3
Change in Terms of Trade                                                                            -3.1                                  -3.1



Page 1 of 3
- 21 -
GUYANA - TlIE STRUCTURAI ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Government Response up to                                                       Proposed Policy Actions
Economic Issues                           Januarv 1. 1981                                              Measures                                       IBRD Monitoring                              Expected Economic Impact
I. Balance of Payments
A. Rising petroleum  import bill        Energy conservation measures and targets          Continued execution of energy conservation              Segi-annual progress reports beginning          Limit growth of petroleum  imports.
which has contributed to             adopted by GUYMINE, GUYSUCO and other             program by public corporations with periodic            1/81.  Program will be discussed with
declining terms of trade and         public corporations.                             reports to Cabinet on progre-s.  Adoption of             IBRD prior to adoption.
erosion in real incose levels,                                                        a program for the promoLion of energy
and exacerbated inflation.                                                            connervation measures by July 1, 1981.
Full transfer of fuel price increase             Continued full transfer of fuel price                    Progress review in April. 1981.                Encourage efficient use of scarce
to consumers.  Closing of gasoline               increases to consumers,                                                                                 energy resources and limit growth
stations on weekends.                                                                                                                                    of petroleum imports.
Rehabilitation of steam boilers and              Completion of rehabilitation and improved                                                               Increased operating efficiency of
improved maintenance of diesel generating    maintenance by nid-1982.                                                                                    GEC's plant which will reduce
sets of GEC is underway with technical                                                                                                                   required fuel imports and improved
assintance from the UK.                                                                                                                                   financial position of company,
Upgrading of GEC's management underway           Continuation of program through 1982.                   Under continuous review through                  Increased operating efficiency of
with technital assistance from the IBRD.                                                                  project supervision.                           GEC's plant which will reduce
r~enuired fuel imports and improve
financial position of company.
Promotion of use of indigenous sources of    Studies of opportunities for increased use                   Progress of studies to be assessed             Identification of potential
energy under various investment projects.    of alternative energy sources.                              in April, 1981.                                 substitutes for imported energy.
Studies of electricity and                       Studies of electricity and transportation                Progress of studies to be assessed in          Establishment of tariff structures
transportation tariff structure underway,    tariff structure completed and program for                  April, 1981.  Program for execution             which will promote the most
execution agreed upon by July 1, 1981,                  of recommendations to be agreed upon            efficient use of energy resources.
in consultation with the Bank.
B. Stagnant or declining export         Introduction of export action program:            Expansion of export action program:
volume.
1.  Sglar - upgrading of equipment               1.  Sugar - increased supplies of fertilizer            Review in April, 1981.                          Increased production and export
- introduction of disease                          and spare parts                                                                            volume of sugar: increased savings
resistant cane varieties                       - expansion of wage incentive                                                                of GUYSUCO.
- wage incentive program                           program
2.  Rice  - new tractor fleet                    2.  Rice  - increased use of agricultural inputs   Review in April, 1981.                               Increased yields and consequent increase
- increased support services                                                                                                                  in produ-tion end export volume of rice.
- development of extension,                      - Gontinued pcogeasa in extension,           Review through monitering of                    Increased vieTds and conseguent increase
storage and irrigation schemes                   storage and irrigation                     investment program.                             in production and export volume of rice.
- 19% increase in producer prices                                                                                                             Increased acreage devoted to rice and
during preceding 12 months and                                                                                                              consequent increase in production and
12-15%  increase in producer                                                                                                                export volume in spring crop.
prices for 1981 spring crop.
- continuation of USAID technical            Review in April, 1981.                          Increased efficiency of marketing
assistance program                                                                        and development of sufficient export
narkets for expanded volume of rice
production anticipated in mid-1980s.
3.  Bauxite/alumina -                            3.  Bauxite/alumina -
earthmoving underway to enable                 - earthmoving completed by mid-1982                                                                 Increase access to bauxite ore, thus
continuous bauxite mining operations                                                                                                               i-reasing  fficiency, and level of
- contract with multi-national to                                                                                                                    bauxite production.
improve reliability of operations and
to increase alumina production                 - plant alumina capacity to be increased                                                            Expand alumina export volume,
capacity signed in 1980e                         by 10% by 1983.
- introduction of program to reduce down         - continuation of ptogtam                                                                           Improve efficiency of operations and
time of essential machinery and                                                                                                                    increase export volume.
rehabilitaion of processing plants






Page 2 of 3
- 22 -
GUYANA: ThE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Government Response up to                                                        Proposed Policy Actions
Economic Issues                           January 1, 1981                                           Measures                                           IBRD Monitoring                               Expected Economic Itpact
B. (cont'd)
4.  Nontraditional manufactures                   4.  Nontraditional manufactures
- employment of consoltant to                     - Establishment of Export Development Fund          Quarterly reports consenting                     Provision of foreign exchange to
prepare for establishment of                      (EDF) to provide foreign exchange and             April 1981 to fourth quarter of                  finance intermediate goods imports
Export Development Fulnd (EDF).                   credit to manufacturing sector.  The Fund    1983.                                                will facilitate expansion of
would be operational by February 28, 1981.                                                        manofactured exports,
- Appointment of Industrial Development             Selection in consultation with                  Adviser will recommend programs.
Adviser by July 1981.                             the IBRD,                                       policies and institutional arrange-
ments to strengthen industrial sector.
- Increase professional staff of Export             Progress review in April 1981.                  Development of export markets for
Promotion Unit co4 persons by                                                                     nontraditional manufactures.
March 31, 1981.
- Establishment of DEport Promotion Council    Progress review in April 1981.                       Development of export markets for
witb representatives from public and                                                              nontraditional manufactures.
private sec tors.
5.  Long-term  export program                     5.  Long-tern export program
- Decision to prepare an export long-             - Completion of long-term export program            To be reviewed with Bank staff                   To promote continued export
tern program,                                     by June 30, 1981.                                 third quarter of 1981.                          expansion over the longer term.
TIu Inyestment
A, Delays, cost overruns and             Establishment of system for monitoring            Continued close monitoring of progress of                Quarterly reports on progress of                Improved execution of isvestmest
inefficiencies in the                investment expenditures through financial    investment program.  Utilization of external                   investment program beginning January            program and more rapid progress of
public sector investment,            controls exercised by the State Planning           technical assistance to minimize potential               1981.  Detailed annual investment levels   major production projects.
Commission with quarterly reports to Project bottlenecks to project execution,                             and financing plans to be agreed upon
Monitoring Subcommittee of the Cabinet.                                                                    with IBRD.  Substantive changes in
composition to be reviewed with IBRD
Formulation of investment program and                                                                      quarterly until December 1982.
financing plan in consultation with IBRD.
Expeditiun of decisions on contract awards              Progress review in April 1981.                   Improved execution of in,,estment
by December 1981.                                                                                        program and more rapid progress of
major production projects.
Delegation of greater authority to project               Progress review in April 1981.                  Improved execution of investment
managers by December 1981.                                                                               program and more rapid progress of
major production projects.
Reorganization of Ministry of Works to include           Progress review in April 1981.                  Improved execution of investment
specialized functions in engineering                                                                     program and more rapid progress of
consultancy and additional construction                                                                  major production projects.
capacity.
B. Declining real levels of              Institution of private sector investment          Clarification and expansion of code by                   Progress review in April 1981.                  Increase confidence of both indigenous
private investment.                  code.                                              September 1981.                                                                                          and foreign private sector and promote
expanded levels of private investment.
Promotion of private foreign investment           Increase in credit resources available to                Progress review in April 1981.                  Increase financial resources available
in oil, mineral and metal exploration             private sector by December 1981.                                                                         for private investment.
and manufacturing operations.
Establishment of EDF, Industrial Adviser                 Progress review in April 1981.                  Increase output of exports, expansion
and Export Promotios Council.                                                                            of export markets and improved
institution support for strengthening
the ind.strial sector.






Page 3 of 3
GUYANA: THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Government Response up to                                                         Proposed Policy Actions
Economic Issues                             January 1, 1981                                            Measures                                           IBRD Monitoring                               Expected Ecosomic Impact
III. Downward Trend in National Savings
A. Public sector savings
1. Persistent current                 Tax measures in 1980 budget including             Continued improvements in tam collection                 Progress review in April 1981.                   Gradual reduction in the sige of
budgetary deficit.                 broadening of consumption tax base,               and admisistration.                                                                                      Central Government's current deficit
increase in tax rates and increases                                                                                                                        from 9% in 1980 to 5% of GDP by 1983.
in excise taxes.                                  Rigorous control of current expenditure
levels through reducti on of sobsidies and
Limitation on growth of current                   limitations on increases in public employment.
expenditures to 8% annual rate during
1976-80.
Improvement in collection of income
tax arrears during 1977-79.
2. Low savings generated by                                                             Rationalization of pricing policies for                  Progress review in April 1981.                   Place corporations on economic basis,
public corporations.                                                                 public corporations.                                                                                     Increase public enterprise savings
from 5% of COP in 1980 to about 9%
Establishment of savings targets for all                                                                 in 1983.
public corporations.
B. Declining real levels of               Increase in Bank deposit rates by                 Gradual movement toward real interest rates              Review in April 1981 of Government's            Increased mobilization of financial
private sector savings.               2 percentage points in 1980.                       through annual upward adjustments of                    proposed timing for interest rate                savings by banking system.
1-2 percentage points.                                  adju-stments.
TV, Inappropriate Pricing Policies
A. Low f-rogats prices for rice           19% increases in producer prices for 1980    Completion of study and adoption of system for                Recomendations of study to be                   Expanded export volume of rice.
resulting in a reduction in           and further increase of 12-15% in rice            periodic adjustment of input, farmgate and               reviewed by Bank in third suarter
-acreog  devoted to the crop,          prices for 1981 spring crop.  Ongoing             domestic consumer prices,                                of 1981.
study on appropriate relation between
farmgate prices, consumer prices and
agricultural input subsidies.
Increases in electricity and                      Further inereases of electricity tariffs by 15%    Semi-anneal review of electricity and                 PEncurage decreased use of scarce
transportation tariffs of 45% and 30%             in February 1981.  Additional measures as                transport tariffs beginning                     energy resources and improve
respectively in 1980.                             required to eliminate GEC's cash deficit by              November 30, 1980.                              financial position in public
July 1, 1981.  Continuous transfer of increase                                                           corporations.
in fuel costs to consumers.
V. Institutionsl Weskness
A. External debt .n.ngement               Establishment in 1978 of Cabinet                  Continued monitoring and increased control               Progress review in April 1981.                  Better control and improved
subecommittee to monitor external debt.           over external borrowing of all public agencies.    Guyana already provides reports to                    management of external debt.
External Debt Division of IBRD.
B. Public Finasc-  administration         Procedures established for high level             Strengthening of coordination at operational             Progress review in April 1981.                  Improve managerial efficiency and
coordination between Ministry of                  levels.                                                                                                  strengthen institutions.
Finance and State Planning Comsmission.
Strengthening of accounting and auditing
arrangements throughout public sector.
C, Import licensing system                Simplification of import licensing                Completion of simplification of import                   Review in April 1981.                           Acceleration of import approval
procedures.                                       licensing procedures in first quarter of 1981.                                                           process.
VI. Labor Productivity                     Broadening of existing sciemes for the            Continued efforts to clarify and extend wage             Progress review in April 1981.                  Expansion in labor productivity.
provision of wage increases based on              incentive scheme.                                                                                        Increased worker satisfaction
productivity.                                                                                                                                              and reduction in number of work
stoppages.
Extension of on- and off-the-job training schemes  Progress review in April 1981.                        Increases in labor productivity
to include middle and senior management and                                                              and strengthening of institutions.
skilled and semi-skilled technical staff.






- 24 -
PART III - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUYANA 1/
44.       The first Bank loan made in 1961 to the then British Guiana for
agricultural credit was repaid in full. Since independence in 1966, Guyana
has received, net of cancellations, US$55.8 million in loans from the Bank and
US$28.5 million in credits from IDA for eleven development projects. In
addition, an EEC Special Action Credit of US$3 million equivalent was provided
in 1979 for an import program and a technical assistance loan of US$8 million
for the power sector was approved by the Bank in October 1980. Reflecting
the development needs of the economy, past lending to Guyana has been for
physical and social infrastructure. 25% of Bank Group lending has been for
sea defenses, highways and power. Two education projects designed to improve
secondary education and strengthen agricultural and vocational skills account
for 21% of Bank Group lending to the country. Assistance to agriculture,
forestry and livestock development account for 42% of total Bank/IDA lending
to Guyana while program lending accounts for the remaining 12% of Bank Group
operations in Guyana. There has been one IFC operation in Guyana, namely, a
stove manufacturing project in which an investment of $2 million was made.
Annex II contains a summary account of the status of projects under execution.
45.       In general, while the execution of Bank Group projects has been satis-
factory, the pace of project implementation has been slow. Shortage of skilled
technicians, institutional weaknesses, lack of a central office to coordinate
and monitor project implementation, and lack of enough resources to meet local
costs account for delays in project implementation. Several of the ongoing
projects which were appraised before the substantial rise in world inflation
in 1973-74 have been faced with substantial cost overruns to be met by Guyana.
The Bank Group has been assisting the Government in obtaining financing from
external sources to meet the needs of some of these projects. In the case of
the ongoing Tapakuma irrigation project which is facing a 190% cost overrun,
a financing package was worked out with the UK Overseas Development Ministry
(ODM), the OPEC Special Fund (OPEC-SF), and the Caribbean Development Bank
(CDB).
46.       Earlier Bank Group operations in Guyana have been mostly aimed at
strengthening both the physical and social infrastructure as well as government
institutions. The two Sea Defence projects (Ln. 559 and Ln. 765), approved in
1968 and 1971, were designed to protect the coastal agricultural lands and the
country's administrative and population centers from tidal inundation. The
Highway Project (Cr. 301), approved in 1972, while supporting agricultural
operations, included technical assistance to the Ministry of Works in preparing
a national transport development strategy. Acting as the executing agency of
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Bank organized a transport
sector study and helped in setting up the Central Transport Planning Unit.
The Power Project (Ln. 875, 1973) cofinanced by CIDA and ODM, and, more
recently by the CDB, was designed to increase thermal generation capacity
modestly, integrate the national power system through frequency conversion
1/   This text is the same as in Part IV of the President's Report on the
Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit (Report No. P-2935-GUA, dated
January 12, 1981).



- 25 -
and interconnection and provide training and institutional improvement.
Acting as the executing agency of the UNDP, the Bank organized a survey of
Guyana's hydropower potential in 1974/75. The recent Technical Assistance
Loan (Ln. 1906) to the power sector is intended to help develop, inter alia,
appropriate hydropower projects in Guyana.
47.       With a view to developing a relevant educational system and reducing
manpower constraints, the Bank Group has assisted Guyana with two Education
Projects (Cr. 139 and Ln. 583 for the First Education project of 1969, and
Cr. 544 and Ln. 1106 for the Second Education project of 1975). These projects
include multilateral secondary schools, community high schools and teacher
training facilities, and emphasize agricultural education and rural training.
The Second Education Project includes the development of curricula for tech-
nical institutes, fellowships for technical teachers and a study to assess the
effectiveness of vocational and technical education and training system in
meeting Guyana's needs. This study would help identify priorities for long-term
investment in education and training.
48.       Apart from the recently launched Upper Demerara Forestry Project
(1978) and the Black Bush Irrigation Project (1978), the Bank Group has financed
other directly productive projects, namely, the Livestock Project (Cr. 221 of
1970), and the Tapakuma Irrigation Project (Ln. 1016 of 1978). These projects
seek to utilize Guyana's land resources so that the country can fulfill its
role as the food supplier to the CARICOM while developing efficient livestock
and rice production systems. However, the participation rate in the livestock
project fell considerably short of expectations because of inadequate insti-
tutions and inappropriate project design. The investment already made in the
agricultural development program in the Tapakuma Irrigation Project has raised
rice yields substantially, thus contributing to increased export earnings.
In order to assess the potential in agriculture, a sector review was completed
in 1977 under the Bank/FAO Cooperative Program. The ongoing Tapakuma Irriga-
tion Project, the IDB-financed MMA Irrigation Project, and the Black Bush
Irrigation Project are designed to help utilize the country's agricultural
potential and increase both export earnings and rural household incomes. The
Upper Demerara Forestry Project in Central Guyana has been designed to increase
significantly the export earnings of the forestry sector by 1982. This
project, as well as the irrigation projects, which are devoted to export-
oriented production, require complementary investments in training and institu-
tional improvements. Assistance in these areas is being arranged under
programs financed by other bilateral and multilateral agencies. The Bank
Group has also arranged cofinancing for these projects from other external
aid agencies. The Forestry Project is cofinanced by the IBRD, EDF, EIB and
IDB, while the Black Bush Irrigation Project is financed by the IDA, IFAD,
IDB, and USAID. The Bank Group's lending strategy will continue to emphasize
increased production for exports, while continuing support for essential
infrastructural projects.
49.       The Bank has maintained a continuing dialogue with the Government
on its economic policies and development priorities. The policy measures for
economic recovery, as well as the new production-oriented investment program
adopted by the Government, are designed to correct imbalances in the economy.



- 26 -
In support of the policy measures and with a view to easing critical shortages
in investment resources, the Bank has helped organize a subgroup of donors
to coordinate aid to Guyana under the auspices of the Caribbean Group for
Cooperation in Economic Development. In addition, to support the Government's
overall investment program and to permit the import of inputs essential for
production and investment, the Bank Group provided a US$10 million Program Loan
(Ln. 1622, Cr. 853) to the Government in 1978. The objectives of the Program
Loan were achieved insofar as the adoption of stabilization measures were
concerned, but in the absence of improvements in bauxite/alumina and sugar
exports, the balance of payments difficulties persisted. The Program Per-
formance Audit Report (No. 3155 dated October 13, 1980) has suggested that
the solicitation of competitive bids should be confirmed by the Borrower
while applying for disbursement of loan funds. Such a procedure has been
instituted in the proposed loan (Schedule 1, para. C.1 of Joint Project
Agreement).
50.       Past Bank Group operations in Guyana have made it apparent that
institutional and management strengthening and staff training should receive
special emphasis in the design of investment projects.
51.       Future Bank Group activities in Guyana would support the struc-
tural transformation of the economy by reducing Guyana's dependence on
fuel imports and by promoting higher stages of processing of the country's
mineral, agricultural and forestry products.
52.       Bank Group financing accounts for about 8% of total external debt
outstanding and disbursed and about 4% of debt service. As of December 1980
the Bank Group's share of total external debt outstanding and disbursed
would be 11% and total debt service 5%.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
53.       The proposed project will support the related structural adjustment loan
and credit which is being submitted separately. It aims at the strengthening of
institutional arrangements and formulation of policies to: (i) better mobilize the
productive capacity and entrepreneurial potential of the private sector, especially
in export-oriented activities; and (ii) improve management and monitoring of the
execution of the public sector investment program. The project was discussed
with the government in May/June 1980. Negotiations for the loan were held in
Washington, D.C. on December 1-4, 1980. The Guyana delegation was headed by
Mr. Patrick Matthews, Governor of the Central Bank. A loan and project summary
is given at the beginning of this report and supplementary data on the loan
are contained in Annex III.
Project Description
54.       The project, to be executed over a 30-month period, would comprise
the following parts:



- 27 -
(a) Consultant and expert services relating to the formulation of
organizational arrangements and operating policies and procedures
of an Export Development Fund (EDF); assistance in the initial
operations of the EDF; assistance in the preparation of appropriate
reporting and accounting systems and procedures and training of
staff of the EDF;
(b)  Ad hoc consultant and expert services for: (i) the carrying out
of export market studies for specific manufactures in which Guyana
has adequate export potential; and (ii) provision of short-term
technical support to the Export Unit;
(c) Appointment of an industrial adviser to the Government to advise
the Government on policy matters and to act as a liaison between
the private manufacturing sector and the Government; and
(d) expert services to: (i) monitor the execution of the 1980/82
public sector investment program; (ii) provide technical support
to the State Planning Commission to deal systematically with
cost control and timely project execution; and (iii) train local
personnel.
Project Execution
55.       The technical assistance project would be carried out over a
30-month period by the Government of Guyana through appropriate entities
as described below:
(a) Assistance to EDF: The Bank of Guyana would be responsible for
arranging and coordinating all technical assistance relating to the EDF. It
would provide office facilities, staffing and support services for carrying
out this project component. A firm of consultants which was hired with
financing from the Bank's Project Preparation Facility has already prepared
the draft documents and guidelines for the establishment and operation of the
EDF. The Bank of Guyana has assigned two of its officials to participate in
the work of the consultants and it is expected that those officials as well as
two more full-time staff would be assigned on a regular basis to the EDF. An
extension of the consultants' contract for training the staff and assisting
the EDF during the initial phase of its operations is now under consideration;
the consultants would be required to draw up a scheme for the EDF to extend
credit to eligible importers. The loan provides for 100 man-months of consul-
tant services, including 10 man-months already financed through the project
preparation advance.
(b) Export studies and export promotion: The Ministry of Trade,
which is responsible for assisting exporters of nontraditional manufactured
goods, would carry out this component by employing experts and consultants as
needed. Since Guyana has surplus production capacity in the building mate-
rials and components industries, the export market studies to be undertaken
early in 1981 would examine opportunities for exporting prefab structures,
building components, decorative tiles, sanitary ware, etc., in the Caribbean
countries. These studies would recommend appropriate production and marketing



- 28 -
strategies and organization and staffing of marketing and distribution sections
of the producing companies. The Government's Export Unit is now located in the
State Planning Commission with an adviser who is financed by the European
Community. This unit would be transferred soon to the Ministry of Trade.
Limited amounts of short-term consultant and export services to support the
activities of the Export Unit would be financed out of the Bank loan.
(c) Assistance for industrial policy advice: The Ministry of Economic
Development, which is responsible for industrial development, would be
strengthened by the employment of an industrial adviser. This official,
who would be a senior level adviser to the Minister, would help develop
policies and programs to identify and propose measures to promote industrial
investment (both local and foreign), increase industrial production and
exports, help rationalize licensing procedures, formulate proposals for
external assistance for the industrial development of Guyana and help alle-
viate problems in critical sectors, such as the construction sector. Since
manufacturing activities are concentrated in the private sector, the indus-
trial adviser would play a key role in promoting the liason between the policy
makers in the Government and the private manufacturing sector. The effective-
ness with which the Industrial Adviser can operate will depend as much on the
support extended to him by the relevant Ministries and Agencies as the rapport
he may establish with Guyana's private sector.
(d) Assistance in monitoring of public sector's investment program and
improving expenditure control: The State Planning Commission has responsibility
for formulating the public sector's investment program, and, in collaboration
with the Ministry of Finance, the current budget. It therefore plays a pivotal
role in enforcing discipline in the planning and execution of public sector
investment projects within available financing and on a timely basis. Technical
assistance amounting to 60 man-months would be provided under the loan to monitor
performance in this respect and to assist in establishing appropriate financial
control, accounting and reporting systems. Experts to be employed for these
purposes would have special skills in contract negotiations, contract adminis-
tration, cost accounting and investment budgeting. These experts would also
help train local personnel and provide support to project executing agencies.
The Government would periodically review with the Bank the findings and
recommendations of consultants financed by this loan. It would also keep the
Bank informed of the schedule of actions for carrying out appropriate recom-
mendations of the consultants and experts. All consultants and specialists
employed in carrying out the project would have qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02). It is likely that most, if not all, of the consultant and expert
services might necessitate recruitment abroad; however, special efforts would be
made to encourage recruitment of suitably qualified and experienced local personnel.
Project Cost Estimates and Disbursement
56.       The estimated total project cost, including taxes, is US$2 million.
The foreign exchange cost of the project is estimated at US$1.5 million. These
costs were estimated at September 1980 prices and include physical contingencies



- 29 -
equivalent to about 10% of base costs and price contingencies equivalent to
about 40%. The amount of consulting and expert services required is estimated
at 100 man-months, at an average cost of US$9,000 per man-month. The Government
would meet costs of counterpart staff, office facilities and support services.
The loan would finance 100% of expenditures on consultants' and expert services.
The advance of US$90,000 authorized under the Project Preparation Facility
would be retroactively financed from the loan proceeds. All disbursements
will be fully documented. Disbursements are expected to be completed in
30 months.
Accounts and Audit
57.       The Ministry of Finance would establish and maintain consolidated
project accounts for all expenditures financed under this loan in a clearly
identifiable manner. These accounts and supporting records pertaining to
the services financed under the loan would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and the audit reports would be submitted to
the Bank promptly (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
Benefits and Risks
58.       The Bank's technical assistance loan would help establish and/or
strengthen institutions to: (a) sustain and develop export-oriented manu-
facturing industries; (b) identify and promote markets for exportable goods;
(c) develop policies and programs conducive to the growth of the industrial
sector; and (d) improve the Government's ability to monitor the execution
of the public sector's investment program in a cost-effective manner. These
aspects of institutional development are of critical importance in Guyana's
structural adjustment efforts, which are being supported by financing from
the Bank Group, as well as from other multilateral and bilateral agencies.
59.       Risks in project execution could arise from: (a) delays in decision-
making process within the various Ministries and Agencies of the Government
involved in the recruitment of the consultants and specialists to carry out
this project; and (b) lack of adequate counterpart staff. Given the Govern-
ment's commitment to promote structural adjustment as rapidly as possible,
it is likely that the Government would assign a high priority to timely
decisions and appropriate staffing to carry out the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between Guyana and the Bank is being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately along with the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 30 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 12, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-    31    -                                           Pge I rf 5 peges
GUYANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUYANA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ, KM.)                                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a/
TOTAL              215.0
AGRICULTURAL        13.8
HOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960 b/       1970 b./   ESTIMATE P.    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   210.0         340.0         560.0                  1384.1                       2381.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOr.RAM9 OF COAL E°UIX'4LENT)     579.0        1093.0        1070.0                  1055.9                      1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)         0.56         0.72          0.82
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF
TOTAL)                              28.9          31.7          33.5                    63.4                        53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATTON IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            3.0            3.0          4.0                    28.1                        77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         41.0          52.0          59.0                    81.7                       129.5
POPULATION 0GE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             46.6          44.2          41.6                    41.4                        30.6
15-64 YRS.                             50.2           52.5         54.0                    34.7                        61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        3.2           3.1           3.6                     3.9                        0.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   2.0           2.3 c/        1.7 r/                 2.7                         1.6
URBAN                                    ..           3.4           3.0                    4.1                          3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          43.0          35.0         20.2                    34.8                        22.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          10.0           8.0           7.0                    0.9                          6.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    ..           2.8           1.7                     2.5                         1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
ENDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)            95.0          96.0          99.0                   106.9                       113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT .2
REQUIgEDIENTS)                   103.0         102.0         110.0                   107.4                       125.3
PROTEINS  (GRAMS PER DAY)           57.0          58.0          61.0                    65.6                        91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         25.0          30.0          26.0                    33.7                        39.6
CI0LD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY SATE   10.0              5.0          4.0                     0.4                         4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXFECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    61.0            64.0          67.0                    63.1                        67.8
INFANT IIORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              *-         50.0  d/                              66.5                        55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..            ..            ..                    65.9
UEBAN                                .8. ..                     ..                     O.4
RURAL                               ..            ..            ..                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(PERCENT OF FOPULATICN)
TOTAL                               ..          93.0          96.0                    62.3
UEBAN                               . .         95.0          99.0                    79.4
RURAL                               . .         92.0          94.0                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            0100.0        4310.0            ..                  1849.2                      1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       1730.0 e!    1070.0 I         07.0                  1227.5                       929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            109.0 e/      210.0         206.0                   480.3                       289.7
URBAN                             54.0          70.0            .
RURAL                           1828.0        1401.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         37.0            ..                      ..                        17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.0           5.4
URBAN                              4.4            ..
RURAL                              5.1
AVEFAGE N15BER OF Pr.G:S PEOCR ROOM
IURBA                              1.7           2.1
RISAL
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT)
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL
URBAN
RURAL



- 32 -                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
GUYANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUYANA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AYIAAIS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                107.0        98.0      99.0                     99.7                     105.9
MALE                 107.0       100.0     100.0                    101.0                     109.3
FEMALE               106.0        96.0      98.0                     99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 33.0        55.0      55.0                     34.4                      64.0
MALE                 36.0         55.0      55.0                     33.5                      71.1
FEMALE               30.0         56.0      56.0                     34.7                      56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  14.0          5.1        5.2                    38.2                      28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            41.0        29.0         ..                    30.5                      29.4
SECONDARY                          32.0        26.0         ..                    14.5                      26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..        91.3         ..                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         19.0        25.0      35.2                     43.0                      84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         66.0       113.0      340.0                   245.3                     192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          ..        ..                     84.2                     118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  67.0        58.0      155.0                    63.3                      93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PEE CAPITA  8.0          11.0      10.9                      ..                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       173.0       204.0      265.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   22.5        23.5       25.0                    22.2                      30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              37.0        33.0       34.0                    37.1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 29.0        42.0      48.0                     23.5                      29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                31.0        28.8       30.6                    31.5                      40.9
MALE                                 48.0        44.1       46.3                    48.9                      55.9
FEMALE                               14.0        13.6       15.0                    14.0                      26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6         1.8        1.4                     1.4                       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.8/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  46.51f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.3/f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.64f
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..           ..       ..                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      171.0                   474.0
RURAL                                ..          ..      171.0                   332.5                     385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/    The group averages for each indiEator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countrieu
among the indicators depends on availabiltly of data and is not uniform.
/     Unlesa otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  Due to emigration, population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1972;  le 1963;
/f 1955-56, excluding self-employed in the high income bracket.
April. 1980



- 33 -                                               ~~~~ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFINITIOINS OF SOICIAL iINICATORS
totem:  Although the data a-  draeirnsore  geerll  jdgd  he moo  aunboh,,tittIaadrlal,i   hodas    entdta  they sap non be toter-
nation   1iyoeaalebovuer   h   ako   tnadeddfrinosadr ets  se db dffeen   rotinsO   olet                                                          toe data.  The data are, none-.
theiran_  useful todeern  Ie  -order  of segeisude,Indicate  treodo. end rhararteri- rertain  major d1ffer-enre  hetuesm  ro...triea
The rrirei,re  grups ar   I) the  ame -utygop of the sub(errt ..untry and (2) a                     gunr   group  ith s..mnahat higher aetrage tsreme, tbtn  the roetry gre.p
of  heso jrt  outr   lsrpe  or'Cpiallurlu   liS oprtoos" g9rupotere  ''etddle Inoome Nortb Afri. iansd Middislas E                is obosa...  beosuse of st.rongr
sorir-rultursiatfiolnias).   lthe refereoe  grou..p data nor -acerges are p.opulaton neighted arithaetir means fo, rhu  ndta:tor sa,dthabeam only   berta
eost fai  of the ootlab    grupfesdta for that lediaor                              t m    nb  reag ofOnueties  mn   b   odrtr    eedaotbaiabilinpo
of .on iIdirtue se tImre asoog tIe ro...try and referenre o'rus.p.
LANDI ARiA (thousandr sqfm)trlnotorPyu t -Proptation Atotasa Op tubatar 0  pra.rticsg pty-
Ttl-Total satiate arearopr.isIt  land ae  an.d inland eates                                    iiv    u>id reamdia   cola   nnripln
agricultural    totisate  ofagricultaralarea used  tePorarily or permanently     PFaainne   usn   Pro-PplatIon ditoded bY nuber nf pann
for oro.p, pasurs,m rktandkitche   gardens or no lie  falino; 1977 data,                        sale and feala gradat   uns    ratrlnre,ed                          ite    sas
GN~~~~~ PER CAPIIA "T   P"                                               lpesatonee  gsrta  Bd     otal. orban.a. - 1i-                        attis(ttl.
itty Pro CAPITA (It))  - COP per rapita en tisates at rurreet narket Prires, cal-  urban, and rarel) dinoded by their nesperti,  sumbar at baspitel beds~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"P .  I  dgd b  thi,  ..prti   _b
Iulted bY asm    onrin GNe  arthoidt asWorld Bank Atlas (10(6-TO  Oeasis); 1960,                 avial   spaioadpins    eea  anbptatadbsia   ad ne
19)1, and 1009 data.                                                     ~~~~~~habilitation teeters.goPtarser  atebihbmeets pasesasetly snaffed
infCTCflOssTIB  lOCAPITA - Annual  rossuapsioto  rssrt    nregp  (roa                          y  nirs  one pbysiria.   ftblbet   rsdn                          mial   etda
and lignita,palrole-,           'f-  :.di~   the-    al.,-                ...rere artst isoladed.  gora1 hospitals. bumener, aneladebeasins sad  -edir
and  ) lignie   pet.roleum   ntreo  gsadhdo-.ula n  geothermalPara--                            casters0sat praetly staffed by a phyatotee  (ban by a media1 assistant.
toilo) t  klagea  ofonl aaialet  an  a ita   160,101,  nd197-nrs, mideife. ate.) abih offer i-p ta                              _e_edatiea  and pron,ids a
data,                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~limited range of madirsi faciltetas.,  Foatr ttla   PsrPeea arban haspi-
POPULATiION AND1 VITA   STATISTICS                                                                   tala  inriude WOBO  prniagerladspieeadh hsitals, and canal
To,ttal Porlatiot, aid-Tea  (                 A.ios   -O  of July 1; 1900, 1970. and 1978      hAdmiastoe  ea   maialBd              oa  nubro  aaa n _ot              r dsobrge
data                                                                                             finsp..t.   hsital  divided by the number of bnds.
loa(PylnIO  roet onal)-iioofturban to total poultion
d atfe ant defolstin..of "orb an areas may  ffect....t r yaaI'llt   fdt
a_ange....tries; 1960, 1970. and 1978 data.                                                 HOaSNaGe   teo    nsbl   rreennbuaed       oa,ubs   s   'r
Po...Latino   n    Ye)utoar 20-C. .r , ,iIpA house.hold oes.iass of a greap of indinidsalsa~hnsh... linigqaer
oyLatio P'Ito yearYloll  -1 Curn. oplto rd              st sare beard on logo                  and shamei        mas.Arsdrrlde  mayen maY anot beiseoedi
POBa   InPueob  egfe end tsm  en  their  nrnelity sdfrtility raes                              the hbn...bhld fnn a.tats -Ina   poryae...                             9114I
Projerion .Panmnesfot           oraiY rates romPrise of three laesean                       Ausaenmevfream    a   om   nata,  ubn  adrrl                               nraesm
eI le   eporoyiet birth iceaignhconr'sfr te is  incor                                         baf of parnaprr        ot   a  l  uhs.ad ,ran   nIdospiad gnnm..t.ng
leel  an _fmle lifenatoo     taiBioNgat 77.1 per.   The pare                                 deln ,rePsesto...    anll na  nldao-e.etarnosa
asters for fartiltn raisela  have three levels asumn     ealine pind untgoopied  pa ts.                         1.D.l..-..  .-e .                               roa   n
fe-rtility a...ording to Iooa  level- and pea  feaily planning pefomace                      A res it  iPetriin(eos   fdalla)-ttl  ubn   a   ua 
Tch   ..utify Ia hban ass igned one  fteenn    obntaao  sraiy                                 nnoinldaLg sAtheletrioty  iniiutg  qorter  am 1,1
and fertilIty  trends far ptajeoiiet purposes.                               oftotal, urhen, end rural dec11 BogsofeataItina.y
ltaioar,_o      fartot-teteioanypplatio    t1OoriIis no geotnnbpar aOrtag
Sfthebohrt   seuln   h    et Prate  andhaso  taagntrurtrers                               tICATI
oelsto a-at.  Iis  s  rie         only a-Ittsr fetilityJ  note  deolhine                 o toAd tad , Frboilmand atitas   .11g.....t
the reilLa'teIe   I lenlaiuitmn  eenufinrte   h naehgeeatohPiayveOO     ttl.m.sed  eaeh    ras'nIt-ae  a  fml
.t..ee  replce   Osea     hilt  an l. The saIonayEDyUCtAoTIaOsa                              Nrlmnnialgeentepmrylvispretgsofepeie
mast level.                                                                      roustrias nub  universal aduonsien sorollases may esneadY t        1ff patononatt.d Eroll.. I  etio
Teensta    ..n.e rrl tof  ris  netua -p-dTOe perateh  sttinary.  papeneatiov                   alo    nepplsaebb    rebn   h   fiis    oelee
sle  asbetratba.                        Thndrysoon  -toal  mleand female - GC..tpaled asIb                                                                            de fmoalr
Po hie tyntaosity                                                                               ado-ration. taqIBre  an leas   po   anso   ppee   piay  sauois
Pe   en d baa. - h Bi-ear.o p tpueto pr.erl square kleter(1   rnrs    fpoie    anrl  naini   risbriritglsrtis    a    t
Pe   n.k.  atuluelln  -Cmptdasaov                       to gr        thuit opl landel eneoglfudadt.v
only.anfothetrarenofodllest ofernentlof  s.Ledtr i.-lOmeatiamaldiastitsshfel
PeorultBo   g   nrrua(rat      Cide   (-Apas)    ohngae(5                                           Yneade teobminal tod etnrf,  or  ogther  Progas   dbib aetie. gndpr
04     "Ya)   n  reireId1IIL I6 year  end-  aver  Yas prhenoegatof.r ai-erpopa-i            dently or asft departents o  aenodtary                -   ....tisstlass..
lPanLo; 19h       17.  n  17  data.                                                               Porilteer rerreti   -             orrmary   and hmon ory   Total atoh nt. enolld i
Potuietn irooish bae(ers)-  oa       nulgrOrtso  ttlmd                                              rmryadsaoday               levl  adivided  by numbers of tsbera  isthe         y
year M    .  Mooe idnya for  95161,t06-71 paod                                   of I78            o     tespeing  levels.. ct..  fr  o
Celtiotarl    o   nt araeana-uba-Annuakl gr.oth  rte  of u h rbanpapa                           O:dui    sayrt  (ne te             I't l - Lier teadlt  faleto  eadan   wts
P;lotos  fe11-o.16-1  end C070-76. aboeapregir1etlaged..                                                             ofd  motael  dl    oaamae of  ygaraIas  ave...  Y
Crd   BirO   at  (erthuand   -Pds- lie   i-bspeViouatio.ad-ea
popolaion; 160. 191. am   1          ld078 data.                                     COOIfr HChih   er..T.dIO.
Crud  Teeth) andt  er thoaased5 ar annua -sefra p-errthosan   at aid-psrPasngrCas(r ptbpaaaed pnofa..... d - iaseogrorsnipis                                                   ae
popaion; 1901960,17. and 1978 data,                                                              et  seati..   es  then ogbt  ersda;panuda   tmb            dsor    t. hearseslsdi
Cro GarodurtO Rto O  pa ..- ..v.rags  number     1 da ghtrsah nones  o11  betar   d                                          Y It  mill teary vsbinth
hrfnra     .erdciepee    tse  aeise    rsn   g-peBt 95er-0pad960 7                                  el-naivars (tee tousan    edpivtidr  -y Ilmpaoraissterd
oilIt  raes  us aly   ia-yaraveags e dng  t  961  170,an  19770.7henadrassi  gener;al  ubi  pan tbsedo    euat;stoe    al
Faiy   ltin-rsona   Ana  (huansltAna  nme  alispastened re-si ratin (,rcunoie  end    ..t On yee                                                          abl abtegs remiad atd -aiatse
on.  birth-contro  devrsa           -  undr ..spca   ofv nartionpal family . plofB  progra..      asi   ia;dn,o   e tyas   a   o   ermaahsa ems
FamBinPlant otno-960s19rs  aent of8  marie  "na)                arengeo    arid                    an rtese toiiab f 1oa i        dnao.ItPplt.    . 5ya.adv,
Cnor-   of  bRl-tbeeprithg-age (1-6  years) aho  par rh.Irib-roft -devi.re  tO                 T   aevr   prtosn    ousin       V                        asfrhsdatt
all married 196a  in70 same age8 g erou.                                                        g         Caareui (par thousand Ppapistise; P..... dar anlesse   TY rarsinere
IIIn                           A-na      nab otITh.r OllTe,                                          ar enastrisg end. in yearsabt :regitraioloiTd.             si  ass1 is..  h f. fart.
Irdrto  ofalfor        rmdne.Poutinaooa'ededfe   n di..sine  deoedrsrtyt   eads                                                             ofnra pse.rit. is ladessida
ino   aede   erOsi.Crt  earvrpOmr:od   e..sgran                                                oh   dily" Ofa ith appar dB least font l times                 ses ...i..f. d
toile   ..veraga pr iue  yriooihs  191-5                    1971  , and iOAdte7n  moil  unts
peL   a.l      viebasplisrapisdmnreprdoie,tprdias                                           Toa   abrFrr   eosed)-  onanatIrme   ssds*tolda
aIt   n,  n   bngei  sakbatspi                   e   a lade animal f ed,   ads                 armedI toresndoepodbteoligbosats,sdea,se
rns bl eve;16-5   91   n  197  data                 h-...    1libdgesrereoag   ofnII                                       lbrfae;tg,iioad17    aa
ye dupl  of foo  pe   a.Ba   upyoffn   sdooda abov. g-red eeotIoy,n ired   gas at. paoeg   ef atota f.lab dorfots  1961
allnane o  61gras o  toal  rotin  en  ay  nd  I gesaof  niml ad       geneiralne bio   paer (throam) -o tnl.t mala. IBa            , d fmt-PaTVOi...i-n r.
I.aed   r  lnrthnIm    f7  grams of to 6-71talO.- protei  and 23 grams. of                       pe,rra Cnags of ntal,  ml   a   saappitnneofal     areaeeisy
anima   rti sa  averge fr th nto.ll rdid, peplod. bya FaInd the  id                         100I01 d ti1971 dais, mes  ens r dtO'  p                  dtopai .  ratedrsloim
fnldPndSuvy;16165   97  19197dta                                                              g-aeerute  o   h  ppltiPtadln    ime   thsd,                          fmst
nlvd  1m  aimal  and; puseiil   rasd   e  dy;19165  17  ed  97   at.                  roatoDredeo  bmi  -btOooiapieim   s-e  5ank                            6   ndh.5
Cid(gsI-i.d    ruit   ate  tper ehond   -tnnaldene  arthudo   t                            o  te  oalreoofae
age group i-i yeArs!, no oh..dednrinbths"agelgroup;ffor   astpeavoltpiogtroan
ItriosI dare danluepd fro  itfaC t-bts;t060 1970 and 1977, adata           d                INOe iOTkIBIT-ddi9          t,y         .,.igd.i..t   r
aof r.q.ir...nts) - COOP   dPecetaeofPrmae  nam   (om ifrarsd  in)     Brgvd   ynohs
inat crt ho atse (ea  tboakd)- AN ue  dats fpt ant  uee  oneyea                      PofOTlynitingIP
ofag .pr  hosnd live bi_iba                                                            ieimmd boltePvet Inom.                    ee   p1  a   sia       rba m.os 
"It'r suppl  (otiudstraed          surf 111 are yit1r or- unteaed  ho for ntamInand             eafordable.                      i           at    prbl;16,97an
Iaa   sobaY    ha C     do poteto   toeolm   s2prings, andysntr  naghe,.is)                   .. as taim red otiei    Poet-  nem eFlfB.-cnnm)     ea  sado froes1 
arrndtagesfnd      trrat    ntib   poulaion.oIfanurbn            faea   prlrOrlrltv    aary om    aa   sestIrdo   vrg    e   apt
foontai  or sttdpont  ocated tot. mand that-200 maer prnbu              a   eerrsoslloom   ofth_r_nry                                        tge ed i   stndfo    b   ua
reasnoebla access enald  impir then endbueoi  orm-`r  a   h   hoseol                Alaiclted  (pe-eamnt Sle -      bmauePvrytrs    aa   erst                         r
00nthvInasdaderrrint    eto   h  day in e1961ogthe 19drural7-Peroe                                                    a of p foareon  (arbainm sa  rural tath sea & "ebndtpa"
cront ttoieta ..li,oa  If r_eon of  douati Pote-nt   InetITprbua.fih.  .   e ..rg  o   oallbr r.190170adn98dd
dlep yas  of foodretPg r ofy Nta - repective  poputod     s.deied. bo atebove-             t-nm                                         ed   oi1Iislnao
proal nayecluda  oh  rolleonin end disosal, oit  Por nlt-dut ttaaOoeuot    toandoBt.  Ana yecnage ImIrloinsPprmo
o      f humay.dfareu and   andr-oaer  apnster-h  rfe oyters ortoerusaof                                                                  Aprl.9190
plo privies sod sielltarleaend f 1iesPnullatiors                                                                                                                       o



0-.  9.                                                                                                              1 0                            <  '    H-o  ,^>n-    0                      I      .     .      000                                                                0
r20                                                                                                                   n                                                                                                                            0          a                  '0         720          ' -0DrgpFt            
,,II                  0~            ~     02G                                                             0                                                  -,o                       '     00                                                         0      0         ~    , 
0   0 a]0 0  '        0Io                                                                                           _           c    o    o     o
r 00                                                               ..              >            n; 9t 3a  :                                                                                               
r20                                                               v20                                                                                                                                                                             - z  r                            202
o~     ~                                                                                0  n o     -0o°_s   
00~~                                                                                 ~            ~ I                                                                     x_w                                                                                            o     I  e              o o  W -  wo  w osw_H,vrsk          
00'~~ _                        2          0>               I              '            o                                                                     0 01                 O                                                                                   2|sbF6. >0rr0Dr/raD_F .EVV  20000
a~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~DVr Vm  o_ro__>-D3                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0  DW W__WD0           V   rDVl D- D000vv  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 9  J>>_ 001                                                                                                                         Is  00   0s                                                                                      '0     W          0-_U    C oO    s  nD
00                r           to                           r4Oa!)                                               3DO1 0  0  X 7  D      _0                               0          0'    0  'rv lD    
a~~                                                                                                                                 ~ oC                                                                                                                                                                   >a>
0  _           2       20                      0-0           I     0         0           w        '                b                   0      0             O           -'      00        00        0'_ r w             rrw  nOV 0'  -   
20~ ~~                  ~~~ -; r. 0-'0-  0',       W , D _ 0F                            2000            0;n  0- 20                     20 0 0 0 0 0- 2 2                            0              .         0       00        .2         020                 0
0020  00~wnw.; o'  :2_   o2      '0r       _    O      022                   _            020                   00.      0          r      0 ' 0         0             0'-' 002                             020       0020020                 2W       _O



ANNEX I
- 35 -                                                              Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
b/
Actual                                 Estimate               Projected
1975       1976         1977       1978          1979           1980           1981     1982      1983
Balance of Payments
Exports of Goods and NFS                                   377.7       294.3       275.7       313.7        306.7           389           479       556       643
Imports of Goods and NFS                                   374.7       403.1       347.5       312.2        350.0           463           551       631       718
Resource Balance                                          3.0      -108.8       -71.8         1.5        -44.3          -74            -72      -75       -75
Net Transfers and Factor Services                          -17.8       -28.4       -25.1       -29.0        -27,8           -38           -35       -35       -35
Current Account Balance                                 -14.8      -137.2       -97.6       -27.5        -72.1         -112           -107     -110      -110
Net Public Disbu,rsements                                   49.3        88.7        35.3        39.6          22.0           39           101       100      107
Gross Disbursements                                     (55.4)    (107.5)       (59.2)    (100.4n       (131.4)         (95)          (157)    (147)    (149)
Anortization                                            (-6.1)      (18.8)      (23.9)      (60.8)    (-109.4)         (-56)          (-56)    (-47)    (-42)
a!
Banking System                                                5.0       -           -           -             -             -10           -10        -         -
Other Capital                                                 3.3      -43.2         0,4          7.9         -3.3           11            12        14        16
Capital Account Balance                                     57.6        45.5        35.7        47.5         18.7            40           105       114      123
Overall Balance                                            +42.8       -91.7       -61.9       +20,0        -53.4           -72           _ 2        +4      +13
Change in Net Reserves(-=increase)                         -42.8        91.7        61.9       -20.0         53.4            72            +2        -4       -13
Memorandum Items
IMF Drawings (net)                                       -           -           -           17.5         12.0           30.0          /7        15        -
Change in Commercial Arrears                             -           -           32.5       -10.2          4,7           10.0          -10      -10        -5
Change in Other Short-Term Liabilities                  n.a.         14.1        16.3        10.2          4,7           23.5          -1O         -        -
Gross International Reserves at Year End                124.7        47.1        34.0        71.5         39.5           31.0           56       65        73
As Months of Imports                                      3.7         1.6         0.2         2.5          1.0             0.7           1.1       1.1      1.1
Actual
1974        1975       1976        1977          1978           1879
Gross Disbursements of Public and
Publicly Guaranteed M&LT Loans                                  34.2        94.6        70.0        43.9         57.4           96.0
IBRD/IDA                                                      5.7        5.9         3.9         3.6         10.3            16.0
Official Export Credits                                       2.3        8.5         11.3        9.2           5.8           -
Other Multilateral                                          -           -           -             1.2          3.5           13.2
Bilateral                                                   23.3        43.6        26.7        17.1          25.6           24.4
Private Source                                                2.8       36.7        28.2        12.9          12.2           42.4
Total Public and Publicly Guaranteed
Debt OuLstanding and Disbursed                                 204.4       291.4       362.6       397.7        427.5          467.0
IBRD                                                        10.1        15.4        18.6        20.1          25.3           34.4
other                                                      191.5       239.3       315.8       364.7        390.0           390.2
Private Source                                                2.8       36.7        28.2        12.9          12.2           42.4
Undisbursed                                                    142.3       106.8        95.7        82.7        223.3          252.3
Debt Service
Total Debt Service Payments                                 13.2        16.1        32.9        32.7         50.0            90.5
Interest                                                 (8.0)       (9.6)      (19.5)      (15.1)       (17.2)         (24.6)
Payments as °/ of Exports & NFS                              4.5          4.3       11.2        11.9          15.9           29.5
Payments as i. of GDP                                         3.5         3.4         7.4         7.5         10.1           17.4
IBRD/IDA Exposure
IBRD DOD/Total DOD (7)                                       4.9         5.3         5.1         5.1          5.9             7.4
IBRD Disbursements/Total Gross Disbursements  (%)   16.7                 6.2         5.6         8.2         17.9            16.7
IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                         5.3          7.1        4.0         6.4          4.8             3.1
Projected Price Indices for Major Exports (1979=100)
1980     1981      1982     1983
Sugar                  132.6   129.2    127.2    139.7
Rice                    117.2    126.3   139.7    151.6
Bauxite/Alumina        112.9    122.0   133.2   144.3
a/  Bilateral loan to Central Bank of Guyana.
6/ Based on achievement of export targets specified in paragraph 15.
December 1980



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUYANA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of November 30, 1980)
Loan or                                                    -------- US$ Million --------
Credit                                                     Amount (or Less Cancellation)
No.     Year   Borrower          Purpose                 Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
Six loans and three credits fully disbursed
(Loans 285, 559, 583, 765, 875 and 1622; and
Credits 139, 221 and 853)                                   24.9      10.2             -
301      1972   Guyana       Highway                                  4.3          0.1
1016      1974   Guyana       Tapakuma Irrigation          12.9                     0.7
1106/544  1975   Guyana       Education II                   8.0       4.0          8.8
820      1978   Guyana       Black Bush Irrigation                   10.0          9.7
1623      1978   Guyana       Forestry                     10.0                     8.4
1906 1/   1980   Guyana       Technical Assistance
for Power                   8.0                     8.0
Total (net of cancellations)               63.8       28.6         35.7
of which has been repaid                    3.5        0.1
Total now outstanding                      60.3       28.5
Amount sold                     0.8
of which has been repaid        0.8
Total now held by Bank
and IDA /2                               60.3       28.5
Total undisbursed                          25.2       10.5         35.7
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of November 30, 1980)
Investment  Fiscal              Type of                          Total Held       Total
Number      Year   Obligor  Business  Equity  Loan  Total    by IFC          Undisbursed
437 GUA      1979  Industrial Gas           -       2.0   2.0       2.0            0
Domestic    Domestic
and       Stoves
Electrical
Appliances
Ltd. (IDEAL)



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
C.   Projects in Execution /1
Cr. No. 301 Highway Project: US$4.4 Million Credit of April 26, 1972
Effective Date: November 15, 1972
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project has been completed. Disbursement of the balance of
about US$34,000 remaining in the credit will be completed upon receipt of the
final withdrawal application from the Borrower.
Ln. No. 875 2 Power Project: US$6.0 Million Loan of January 12, 1973
Effective Date: May 8, 1973
Closing Date: June 29) 1979
This project for which cofinancing has been provided by UK-ODM, CDB,
CIDA and the Bank encountered delays in implementation and cost overruns of
about 36%. Difficult relations between project consultants and the Borrower
resulted in a 98% increase in the engineering cost. The Bank reallocated its
loan to meet the increased engineering costs and the ODM and CIDA contributed
a larger share of the equipment and construction costs.  The project is
completed except for construction of a transmission line being funded by a
US$6.9 million loan from the CDB.  GEC continues to have financial and manage-
ment problems which adversely affect project execution.
Ln. No. 1016 Tapakuma Irrigation Project: US$12.9 Million Loan of June 25, 1974
Effective Date: May 27, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is about 36 months behind schedule due to delays in
contracting consultant services, scarcity of local professional staff and
counterpart funds and the need for additional studies. Civil works for the
Tapakuma and Somerset-Berks irrigation and drainage works and roads are about
75% completed, and will be finished by June 1981. This contract covers about
80% of the project area. The recently awarded civil works contract for the
remaining of the area is expected to be completed by December 1982. Cost of
civil works for the project has increased about 190% over the appraisal esti-
mate, mainly due to price increases. With the assistance of the Bank, additional
external financing to meet substantially the cost overrun was obtained from the
OPEC Special Fund (US$4.0 million), CDB (US$4.0 million) and UKODM (US$5.7
million). The agricultural development phase of the project is progressing and
applied research and seed production programs are proceeding well. The applied
research and extension services provided by the project contributed to yields
which were the highest in the country. A program for extension training is
helping to resolve the scarcity of local agricultural staff, as well as serve
as a model for extension activities throughout the country.
/1   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of the strengths and
weaknesses of project execution.
/2   Though the Bank loan has been fully disbursed, the transmission line
component is still under execution.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3 pages
Ln. No. 1106  Second Education Project:  US$12.0 million of May 9, 1975
Cr. No. 544   Effective Date:  July 8, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Execution of the project is about 42 months behind schedule due to
delays in fulfilling the effectiveness conditions, subsequent delays in the
award of contracts for civil works items and a shortage of local currency
resources. The manpower study has been completed and the Caribbean Animal
Technical Training Center is under operation. Construction of the first
phase of the project, which consists of 11 institutions, is under way.
Cr. No. 820 Black Bush Irrigation Project: US$10.0 Million of December 4, 1978
Effective Date: April 3, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This project, which is cofinanced by IFAD, USAID and IDB is about
20 months behind the schedule set in the Staff Appraisal Report, mainly because
of delays in securing the financial package for the project and the Government's
inability to meet all loan and credit conditions for project effectiveness. The
consultants have been working on the project since May 1980. A substantial cost
overrun is expected due to price increases since appraisal of the project in 1977.
Ln. No. 1623 Upper Demerara Forestry Project: US$10.0 Million of December 4, 1978
Effective Date: May 31, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project, which is cofinanced by EDF, EIB, EDB and IBRD, has begun
procurement of immediate purchase item and supervision of construction services
has started. The immediate purchase portion of the power plant equipment has
been installed. Procurement of total logging and transport equipment, sawmill
and power plant is practically concluded. Construction of the contracted
housing has begun and clearing for township roads is near completion. The main
project access road, while not completed, provides easy access to the sight.
The scarcity of local managerial staff may pose problems for the execution of
the project. As a substantial cost overrun on the project appears likely,
discussions are now underway to review the cope of project works and arrange-
ments for additional financing.



- 39 -                              ANNEX III
GUYANA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Identification and Appraisal: In November 1979 and
May/June 1980
(b)  Negotiations:                            December 1980
(c)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:           March 1981
Section II - Special Implementation Actions by Bank
Assistance in drafting terms of reference and recruiting consultants
and experts.
Seciton III - Special Condition
None.



I B R D 11683RI
7    ;         sl~~~ARCH 1979
- r4  > S1 XGUYANA 
. sb   -   2   ) TO            (          o o   W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNA RiafIt  k
:~~~~~~~~~~~a:
>     _      .   i    .s   X AIE T X                t    1         7            1 ESEY 1~
eo   .   / ;ORINDU K    \         )           X           1      |tU POIN
-   .  .                -7n          OKYM         >      //        S       r       Vt                    . "
PJlwi@ Ctost Arecws  S   -   ^~~~~~~~~~~ 2/   g  '       8     ||~~~~
ForeXd Aseos -> 52 \ / }/ l J &- : 2~~~~~~~
e PSrtieks | AP~~~~OTRIND K    
Atvvc C-m -ArZ                             r;=                      E          wts
ForostPdArasTr      >i/ }_ A    :                yt                                  Nf       .,      ,
1     or RLToads      T                                          t         
.e                                                 U 'fy;...-         
R adod                                                          AP30 34 .OT WChAR;  t 
Crop / Past re,   ise 
.,x rat_ E b ff z z r . i .L.E
, I            . 5                            /r   0\                                                        t   
.7, 20i                                                 /  a      - 4D  4T                          H/  '   \     -
4e / 8 ~R  A  Z  I                                           t                       .8 tsR  A   Z I L  
;\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JEOf.T - t  '.   



