Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CR, 161/.-5c
Report No. P-4014-SO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SDR 10.1 MILLION (US1.O0 MILLION) CREDIT
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL INv-PUTS PROGRAM
May 28, 1985
This document has a resbicted distribution and may be used by recipiens only in the perfonnauce of
their offiEi  duies. Its contets may nsot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank auiorbTioon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Somali Shilling (So.Sh.) - 100 cents
Official Exchange Rate: US$1.00 - So.5h. 38 (May 1985)
Free Market Exchange Rate: US$1.00 - So.Sh. 81 (May 2, 1985)
(determined daily)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha)                       10,000 m2
1 Square Kilometer (km2)       -        100 ha
1 Metric ton (mt)              -      1,000 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC      =   Agricultural Development Corporation
AIP      =   Agricultural Inputs Program
CIP      =   Commodity Import Program
CSBS     =   Commercial and Savings Bank of Somalia
ENC          National Commercial Agency
FRG      =   Federal Republic of Germany
GOS      =   Government of Somalia
ICB      =   International Competitive Bidding
rMF      =   International Monetary Fund
'IC      =   Ministry of Industry and Commerce
wP      M= Ministry of National Planning
MOA      =   Ministry of Agriculture
MOF      =   Ministry of Finance
ONAT     =   Tractor Hire Agency
PPF      =   Project Preparation Facility
SPPF         Special Project Preparation Facility
UJSAID    =   United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF SOMALIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL INPUTS PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:         Somali Democratic Republic
Beneficiaries:    Agricultural, fisheries and livestock producers and
distributors, and the Ministries of Agriculture,
Fisheries, and Livestock.
Amount:           SDR 10.1 million (US$10 million equivalent).
Terms:            Standard.
Cofinancing:      DM 30 million (about US$9.5 million) grant from the
Federal Republic of Germany.
Project Description
Objectives:       The objectives of the program are:
(a) to maintain, and ultimately increase, production in
the agriculture, fisheries and livestock sectors
through provision of foreign exchange to import
inputs;
(b) to assist Government to rationalize the role of the
public sector and to stimulate private sector
activities in agriculture by carrying out a joint
agricultural sector review and exchanging views with
IDA on policy and institutional reform;
(c) to stimulate the expansion of commercial dealerships
and retail outlets for agricultural inputs; and
(d) to provide agricultural inputs to support the
Government's Economic Recovery Program in 1985.
Components:       (a)  Part A - Commercial Imports:  (US$12.2 million
equivalent). Foreign exchange to be sold to
individuals, firms or public sector agencies, at the
market exchange rate to purchase letters of credit
to import agricultural, fisheries and livestock
equipment, spare parts and inputs.
(b) Part B - Imports for Government: (US$2.7 million
equivalent). Foreign exchange provided at the
official exchange rate to the Ministries of
Livestock, Fisheries and Agriculture
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ued by rcipients only in the perfornance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
for plant protection services, spare parts to
rehabilitate agricultural equipment at four
workshops and other Imported items.
(c) Part C - Diesel Fuel: (US$4.0 million equivalent).
To be procured by Government, for sale for
agricultural, fisheries and livestock purposes.
(d) Part D - Technical Assistance: (US$0.6 million
equivalent) Technical assistance and operating costs
of a procurement unit for the administration of
parts A, B, and C; technical assistance for
preparing the spare parts list and rehabilitating
agricultural equipment at the four workshops, and
part of the cost of the agricultural sector task
forces.
Benefits:               The principal benefits would be:
(a) the maintenance of agricultural, livestock and
fishery production made possible by the provision of
the required inputs; and
(b) stimulus to private entrepreneurs to expand their
role in input supply and crop marketing.
Risks:             There is some risk that not all the funds provided under
Part A will be readily disbursed, because the inputs
would be imported at the more expensive free market
exchange rate. However, demand is expected to be
sufficient to absorb the funds provided. There will be a
joint Government/IDA mid-term review in September 1985 of
the status of disbursements.
Estimated Disbursements: To be fully disbursed within IDA Fiscal Year 1986.
Rate of Return:   Not applicable.
Appraisal Report: No appraisal report was prepared for this project.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL INPUTS PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for SDR 10.1 (US$10.0 million
equivalent) to finance an Agricultural Inputs Program. The Federal
Republic of Germany will cofinance the program with a grant of DM 30
million (about US$9.5 million equivalent).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report on the economy entitled: "Somalia - Policy Measures for
Rehabilitation and Growth' (Report No. 408la-SO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in May 1983. An economic mission visited Somalia in
May 1984; its report ent'tled Somalia - Maintaining the Recovery Program-
is being prepared; its preliminary conclusions are reflected in this
report.
The Resource Base
3.        Somalia is a large, sparsely populated country; its varied
topography includes a hot and arid coastal plain, rugged mountains and
plateaus, and lowlands of varying fertility and rainfall. Its population
of about 5.3 million is unevenly distributed over a land area of nearly
638,000 sq km of semi-desert. Population growth in recent years has been
about 3 percent (excluding refugee inflows) which will result in long-term
pressure on the fragile resource base. Only about 13 perceat of the lend
is suitable for cultivation, but with water the main constraint, only a
small fraction (8.5 percent) of this potentially arable land is cultivated.
4.        The mainstay of the economy has long been nomadic pastoralism.
Over 60 percent of the people depend on livestock for their livelihood.
Livestock production accounts for about 35 percent of GDP and provided,
until recently, over 80 percent of export earnings. Crop production
generates about 8 percent of GDP. Although Somalia has one of the longest
coastlines (3,000 km) in Africa, and has considerable potential for fish
development, fishing generates only about 2 percent of both GDP and
employment.
5.        The country's limited natural resource base and its limited
uncertain hydrocarbon energy potential account for the scarcity of
economically viable investment opportunities. Apart from the traditional



- 2 -
export of livestock, commercial agriculture is centered mainly on the
production and export of bananas and the production of sugar and maize for
the domestic market. Expansion of the manufacturing and service sectors is
limited by the small size of the domestic market, poor infrastructure, and
shortages of capital and entrepreneurial experience. The existence of
several minerals has been confirmed, but their exploration is still at an
early stage, and the commercial viability of production remains to be
proved.
6.        A number of foreign companies have been engaged in onshore and
offshore exploration of hydrocarbons but so far no commercially viable oil
prospects have emerged. However, investigations under an IDA project for
petroleum exploration promotion have indicated possible natural gas
reserves near Mogadishu which could be used for power generation In
substitution for petroleum imports. An IDA credit to finance the first
phase of a two-stage delineation program was approved by the Executive
Directors on May 1, 1984. In the absence of other known resources,
Somalia's prospects depend upon agricultural and livestock development,
whose progress will depend upon careful management of the scarce land and
water resources.
7.        Somalia is among the poorest countries in the world and is
classified by the United Nations as a least-developed country. Per capita
income was estimated at $ 266 in 1982. Other indicators of the country's
low level of social and economic development include: a crude death rate
estimated at 20 per thousand population (compared to a crude birth rate of
50 per thousand); an average life expectancy of only 46 years; an infant
mortality rate as high as 150 per thousand population; primary and
secondary enrolment ratios of 50 percent and 7 percent, respectively; and a
ratio of nearly 20,000 persons per physician.
Past Development Strategy and Performance
8.        Following its assumption of power in 1969, the Gover.nent adhered
to a program of "scientific socialism" whose stated objectives were
egalitarianism and social justice, development through the public sector,
nationalization of certain foreign enterprises, and the formation of
cooperatives. Public ownership and management expanded both through
nationalizations and through the creation of new public enterprises. The
parastatal sector established in the 1970s included about 45 autonomous
agencies which eliminated private enterprise in wholesale trade and banking
and which dominated manufacturing.
9.        In the earLy 1970s Somalia made considerable progress in meeting
certain basic needs. A program of literacy and primary education had
notable results, and an effective system of food distribution was also
established. In other respects, however, the record in the social sectors



- 3 -
has been less impressive, particularly in water supply, sanitation and
health, where services have frequently been blased in favor of the urban
population. Moreover, there are indications that there has been a trend
towards increasing income differentiation within the rural sector.
10.       On the production side, during the 1970s the Somali economy
experienced stagnation in production and a decline in per capita income.
Only the services sector grew during the period, by 3.5 percent per year
and the growth in government services, at an annual rate of about 7
percent, was particularly striking.  Beginning in 1981, the economy
witnessed a reversal of the past trend, with real CDP in 1981-82 growing on
average by 6.4 percent per year notwithstanding some decline in the
services sector.
11.       Over 100,000 Somalia have migrated to work in neighboring
oil-exporting countries in the Gulf area. As labor migration has been
neither organized nor controlled by the Government, it has led to a severe
depletion of omalia's already small stock of qualified and skilled
manpower, thereby weakening institutions and reducing the country's
absorptive capacity. The savings of these emigrants are potentially an
important resource for the economy, but despite substantial adjustment of
the exchange rate, only a small proportion of emigrants' savings is
remitted, largely through unofficial channels.
12.       Following a border conflict with Ethiopia in 1977/78, there was a
great surge in Government expenditures which resulted in widened deficits
in both the budget and the balance of payments. During 1978-80, the
Government's financial situation deteriorated rapidly, mainly because of
the sizeable expansion in expenditures consequent upon the border conflict,
the cost of maintaining large numbers of refugees, and the wage bill
associated with the Government's policy of guaranteeing employment for
secondary school leavers. At the same time, official foreign aid
declined. This resulted in Government recourse to deficit financinr- With
further deteriorat.on ir *-he budgetary situation in 1979 the Government's
recourse to the Central Bank rose to record levels (about 13 percent of
GDP). This, in turn, led to -apid inflation, from 10 percent in 1978 to 60
percent in 1980.
13.       Official data on Somalia's balance of payments are incomplete and
provide a very deficient basis for analyzing trade and capital movements.
It may nevertheless be concluded that Somalia had a reasonably comfortable
overall balance of payments position up to the beginning of 1979. The
stagnation in exports and surge in imports since 1979 resulted in a
widening of both the current and overall balance of payments deficits. The
current account deficit during 1980-83 averaged $290 million, as compared
to $110 million in the years 1977-78. Total international reserves, which
rose steadily in the 1970s to $158 million in March 1979, dropped to $15



- 4 -
million at the end of December 1980, and have since then remained at about
this level (about two weeks' imports).
14.       The stagnation of export earnings and the near zero level of
domestic savings have rendered Somalia entirely dependent upon external
assistance for the financing of development. After joining the Arab League
in 1974, Somalia mounted a major effort to attract funds from the Arab
petroleum exporting countries. The large inflows of external capital and
transfers from 1975 onwards indicate that the effort has been successful.
After 1977, the sources of foreign assistance shifted from the centrally
planned economies (except for the People's Republic of China, which
maintains a large program) towards Arab bilateral and multilateral
institutions and OECD countries, several of which have had substantial
assistance programs for a number of years. According to OECD data,
Somalia's receipts of ODA during the period 1980-1982 nearly $400 million
per year, equivalent to some $75 per capita per year.
15.       Somalia's external debt burden has grown rapidly in recent years
and amounted to about $1,500 million at end 1983, representing about
fifteen times the value of recorded exports in that year. The structure
and terms of borrowing have also hardened. As a result, the country's debt
service burden has grown steeply. The debt service ratio rose from 7
percent in 1979 to 27 percent in 1982 and is projected (without debt
relief) at over 100 percent in 1985. The country also has accumulated debt
service arrears. IMF and the World Bank staff have encouraged the
Government to seek debt relief where possible on concessional terms.
16.       In sum, Somalia experienced in the late 1970s and into the early
1980s an economic and financial crisis characterized by: stagnation in
production and exports; a rapidly rising budget deficit financed through
recourse to the banking system; rapidly rising inflation; a worsening
balance of payments situation; a critical loss of foreign reserves; and a
worsening external debt situation. This crisis reflected not only adverse
developments in the international economy, but also past and current
weaknesses in economic management.
Policy Changes
17.       As the financial crisis deepened through 1978-1980, the
Government became convinced of the need to take remedial action and
embarked on a course of moving towards a more market-oriented economy.
Beginning in early 1981, the Government successfully implemented two
successive stabilization programs supported by IMF standby arrangements.
The measures taken under these programs included adjustment of the exchange
rate, fiscal and monetary restraint, and de facto liberalization of
agricultural marketing. Under the first standby program, a dual exchange
rate was introduced, producer prices for agricultural crops were increased,



- 5 -
and banana growers received the full benefit of devaluation. This program
also involved a substantial reduction in Government recourse to the banking
system and increased interest rates.
18.       Following the completion of the 1981/82 program, a new
stabilization program was adopted in mid-1982, supported by the IMF with an
SDR 60 million 18-month standby arrangement for the period July
1982-December 1983. Under this program, several key policy measures were
taken: the dual exchange rate was unified on July 1, 1982, the Somali
shilling was again devalued, and interest rates were raised. The
Government also restricted fiscal and monetary expansion. In January 1983,
a bonus scheme was introduced providing for a premium of 25 percent in
foreign exchange terms of inward remittances and capital inflows by Somali
nationals. These actions were reinforced in mid-1983, when Somalia
introduced a more flexible exchange rate system. Under the nev arrangement
the Somali shilling was pegged to the SDR adjusted by the relative rates of
inflation between Somalia and the five countries in the SDR basket.
However, the beneficial effects of these measures were overshadowed by the
negative impact of a ban on Somali cattle imports by Somalia's major client
(which has been in effect since May 1983) and by the impact of a drought
that began in 1983 and continued into 1984.
19.       The Government decided in 1983 to abandon its policy of
guaranteed employment to high school leavers. An interministerial
committee reviewed the future of public enterprises and the Government is
now in the process of determining which public enterprises should be phased
out of operation, which privatized, and which retained in the public
sector.   Another step to liberalize the economy was the de facto
elimination of the Government monopoly on grain purchases.
20.       The policy reforms introduced by the Government from 1981-83 had
a positive impact on the economy. Reductions were effected in the rate of
growth of the money supply, in Government recourse to tbe banking system,
and in the rate of inflation. There was also some increase in commodity
production and exports.   These measures represent the first stage in the
formulation and implementation of a policy agenda directed at restoring
financial equilibrium, rehabilitating and making fuller use of existing
agricultural and industrial productive capacity, and establishing the
foundations for long-term growth.
21.       In March 1983 the Government requested the Bank to organize a
first Consultative Group meeting for Somalia. It then proceeded to prepare
a Medium Term Recovery Program (MTRP) for presentation to the Consultative
Group meeting. As outlined by the Government in a paper entitled
Development Strategy and Public Investment Programme for 1984-86", the
MTRP consists of (i) a program of phased policy measures aimed at restoring
equilibrium in the balance of payments and public finances and at



- 6 -
rationalizing the pricing and incentive structure; and (ii) a
resource-constrained Public Investment Program (PIP) for the period
1984-86. The formulation of this recovery program represented a major
accomplishment.
22.       The inaugural meeting of the Consultative Group for Somalia was
held in October 1983. Participants were encouraged by the remedial
measures taken by the Government under the 1981-83 stabilization programs
and by the Government's pursuit of its new policies. In particular,
participants appreciated the formulation of the public investment program
and the emphasis in the program on rehabilitation and improved utilization
of existing facilities. The participants welcomed in particular the
substantial adjustments made by the Government in the size and composition
of the investment program at the Consultative Group meeting. These
adjustments included postponing some new projects pending results of new
studies, rephasing the implementation of ongoing projects and introducing
new high-priority schemes such as the rehabilitation of irrigation in the
Shebelli region. Participants at the meeting responded favorably to the
external aid requirements of the public investment program and other
elements in the recovery program for 1984-86. It was recognized at the
meeting that further financial aid to Somalia should be on highly
concessional terms and that Somalia should attempt to secure debt relief on
concessional terms.
23.       Following the Consultative Group meeting, intensive discussions
between the Government and donors were held concerning follow-up action on
the development of the Juba Valley, including the proposed Bardhere Dam,
and agreement was reached with the Bank on terms of reference and a
timetable for a study of interim water solutions; the study is being
financed under the first IDA Technical Assistance credit. IDA has also
granted an advance under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to finance
the preparation of a scheme for rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure
in the Shebelli region. A USAID financed Civil Service Study has been
reviewed by the Government and arrangements for follow-up are being made.
Some initial measures under consideration to improve the civil service are:
reduce the size, reassign staff to other economic activity, intensify
training programs and gradually improve the salary structure.
24.       After effectively implementing the 1981-83 stand-by arrangements,
the Government approached the IMF for further balance of payments support
under an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) to deal with the country's structural
and short- to medium-term financial problems. Agreement in principle on
such a program was reached in early 1984, but in the event key measures
were not implemented, and neither an EFF nor a standby arrangement was put
into effect during 1984.



-7-
Recent Developments
25.       After having Improved markedly between mid-1981 and late 1983, In
1984 the Somali economy came under increasing stress. This situation
emerged from (1) the acute shortage of foreign exchange due to the fall in
livestock exports (ii) a drop in domestic food production owing to a
drought ln 1983 and the lateness of rain In early 1984; and (ili) the March
1984 government decision not to go ahead with the IMF program. Following
the breakdown of the stabilization program, the exchange rate In the
parallel market fell steeply. In addition, there was a sharp acceleration
in monetary expansion, fueled largely by a rapid expansion In net credit to
the Government. The money supply in 1984 rose by about 74 percent, as
compared to less than 5 percent In 1981. As a result, domestic inflation
rose from 32 percent in 1983 to over 90 percent in 1984.
26.    As the economy deteriorated, the Government came to realize the need
for new corrective measures. Following an IMF mission and a parallel Bank
mission in early September 1984, the Government adjusted the exchange
rate. During the 1984 Bank/Fund Annual Meeting discussions, the Minister
of Finance reiterated Somalia's commitment to a recovery program
emphasizing development of the productive sectors, rehabilitation and full
utilization of existing capacities, and encouragement of the private
sector. The Minister also confirmed the Government's decision to reopen
its dialogue with the IMF.
27.       In connection with the design and negotiation of the stand-by
arrangement, Bank staff reviewed the Government's draft Public Investment
Program for 1985; following some adjustments by the Government, Bank staff
informed the IMF staff that it considered the PIP broadly consistent with
the country's development needs and objectives. Bank staff also provided
advice and assistance to the IMF on issues concerning further
liberalization of agricultural marketing and pricing and reform of public
enterprises. Major new policy actions under the new IMF program include:
(a) devaluation of the Somali shilling by almost 50 percent and
introduction of a free foreign exchange market for nearly all private
sector transactions; (b) abolition of price controls; (c) restriction of
credit and severe fiscal limits; (d) civil service staff reductions; (e)
arrangements to improve debt management and regularize Somalia's relations
with creditors; (f) increases in interest rates; and (g) public enterprise
reforms.
28.       On January 1, 1985 the Government implemented nearly all the
preconditions to the IMF standby program. These included a freely floating
system for the determ'nation of the market exchange rate for most private
sector transactions, and virtual elimination of all trade restrictions. On



- 8 -
a transitional basis, an official exchange rate for government transactions
has been maintained. The official exchange rate was devalued by 38 percent
in domestic currency terms and is to be adjusted each month by the
difference between domestic and international inflation plus an additional
0.5 Somali Shillings per US dollar. The IMF expects the official rate to
be unified with the market exchange rate in the near future.
29.       On January 23, 1985 the Bank held a special meeting of the
Consultative Group for Somalia to mobilize financial support for the
country's balance of payments in 1985. At this meeting about US$80 million
were committed in additional support for 1985. Subsequently, the IMF Board
approved, on February 22, 1985, an SDR 22 million stand-by arrangement and
a SDR 33 million Compensatory Financing Facility. At a meeting of the
Paris Club on March 4, 1985, Somalia was accorded a favorable rescheduling
of its debts (arrears and principal) by its major OECD-member creditors. A
regular meeting of the Consultative Group is planned for early November,
1985 to review the 1986-88 Public Tnvestment Program, medium-term
prospects, and aid requirements.
PART 11 - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
30.       Bank Group commitments to Somalia to date total US$240 million,
consisting of 27 IDA credits and two IFC investments. Twelve projects are
under implementation. Over thirty percent of total IDA lending has been
for agriculture, twenty five percent for transport and the rest about
equally divided over education, water supply, ports, energy, industry and
technical assistance. IFC has so far made two investments in Somalia - a
US$375,000 loan for a molasses terminal for the Juba Sugar Project and SWF
1,550,000 for a polypropylene bag project. Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1984.
31.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Somalia
has been mixed, and some have not done well. Progress of the North West
Region Agricultural Development Project - Phase I has been good, and the
main production targets estimated at appraisal have been met or exceeded.
Projects for roads, ports, water and education have been more successful
than in the agricultural sector. Many IDA-financed projects have
experienced delays in execution. Staffing and management problems have
impeded effective preparation and implementation of projects. Problems
with projects in execution were brought to the attention of the Government
authorities during the last country implementation review, which was held
in Somalia in June 1984. At that time understandings were reached on the
restructuring of several projects in execution.



- 9 -
32.       Somalia's disbursement performance on projects assisted by the
Bank Group has been satisfactory. The FY84 disbursement rate was 27.9
percent, as compared to 24.7 percent for Eastern and Southern Africa and
23.4 percent Bank/IDA-wide.
IDA Strategy
33.       In early January 1985, as recommended by the IMF, the Government
implemented far-reaching policy reforms to liberalize the Somali economy
and to improve its macroeconomic management. We propose to continue to
assist the Government to devise and implement policies and programs to
improve the efficiency of both the public and private sectors, to improve
the macroeconomic framework for domestic and external resource mobilization
and allocation, improve pricing administration and marketing systems, and
to increase production and exports. We aim to support further use of
existing capacity and to help lay the foundations for longer term growth.
Our economic and sector work program strives to support the macroeconomic
reform process, and to provide analytical inputs for the work of the
Consultative Group for Somalia.
34.       We are giving particular attention to aid management issues, and
are now undertaking an assessment of technical assistance to Somalia
jointly with the UNDP. An energy assessment is underway, and a review of
population, health and nutrition issues is in preparation. A collaborative
review with the Government and donors of major issues in the agricultural
sector is about to begin, with support from an SPPF. We are cooperating
with the government in the preparation and review of periodically updated
public investment and expenditure programs, at both the global and,
increasingly, at the sector level. The Advisory Committee for Juba Valley
Development established by the Consultative Group at its October 1983
meeting provides an important forum for review and collaboration on issues
affecting the development of Somalia's major water resource.
35.       Issues in public enterprise reform are expected to become an
increasingly important component of our policy dialogue. In our lending
work, we plan to emphasize productive investments and rehabilitation
programs. An irrigation rehabilitation project is being prepared to help
increase productivity and farmer incomes in the Shebelli Valley. A project
for the development of the gas resources at Afgoy is under consideration.
Most projects have been cofinanced with a number of other donors, and this
is expected to continue in the future.



- 10 -
Relationship to Other Aid Flows
36.       IDA disbursements represent about eight percent of total aid
flows to Somalia. We expect that this relationship will continue at about
the same level during the next several years. IDA obligations represent
about 12 percent of Somalia's total outstanding and disbursed debt up to
December 31, 1983. Debt service payments to IDA represent a very small
proportion of Somalia's total debt service obligations. In 1984. payments
to IDA were estimated at only about one percent of total debt service
payments for that year. This trend is expected to continue in the future.
Part III - ISSUES IN THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Background
37.       The agricultural sector (crops, fisheries, forestry and
livestock) dominates the Somali economy. Livestock is the most important
sub-sector, providing 60 percent of employment, 35 percent of GDP and,
until recently, over 80 percent of exports. Crop production employs about
20 percent of the population and generates about 8 percent of GDP. Rainfed
crop production is based primarily upon sorghum. Crop production under
controlled irrigation is centered on bananas (the principal cash crop),
sugar cane, rice and maize; production under flood irrigation comprises
mainly maize and sesame. Fish and fish products account for about 2
percent of exports and of GDP.
38.       During a decade of socialist development from 1970 to 1980,
agricultural and livestock production stagnated and the country became
heavily dependent on food aid. During the past three years, the Government
of Somalia has lifted its tight state monopolies on agricultural marketing
and supply. It has made significant progress toward the liberalization of
the agriculture, fishing and livestock sectors, and private producers and
traders are now participating in a wide range of activities. In addition,
some 150,000 hectares of well suited land has been leased to individuals
and groups. These actions have encouraged farmers to expand production in
their traditional areas and led to significant increases in production of
maize and sorghum through 1982. However, progress was interrupted in 1983
and 1984 as a result of adverse weather and the ban on Somali cattle
imports by Somalia's major client and the resulting loss of foreign
exchange receipts. The area planted declined between 1982 and 1984 by
about 25 percent, and imported food and food aid still account for almost
40 percent of all grain consumed in Somalia. Banana production, mainly in
the hands of a small number of private farmers, increased substantially
between 1981 and 1984, because of higher producer prices, increased
investment and improved shipping and marketing arrangements, but still
remains below the reported levels of the early seventies. Sugarcane



- 11 -
production also has improved recently. However, the foreign exchange
shortage caused by the cattle ban and heavy debt service requirements has
limited the capacity to import needed inputs. A particularly serious
constraint has been the limited and often disrupted supply of diesel fuel
necessary for livestock transport, irrigation pumps and tractors. A full
range of equipment, inputs and services is required in order to maintain
the progress of recent years.
39.       Until recently, most agricultural inputs and services were
provided and distributed by state agencies.  With the introduction of the
USAID-funded Commodity Import Program (CIP) program in 1983, private
traders have become the major importers of tractors, spare parts and other
equipment. On the other hand, the state tractor hire system remains in
place, there is no organized private sector distribution network for most
inputs, and the small quantities of seeds, fertilizers, pesticides and
animal drugs and vaccines are distributed largely through two public
agencies. During this transitional stage it is impossible to predict
precisely the total amount of inputs that could be effectively utilized in
1985. Based on past levels of imports, applications in 1983 for CIP funds,
and recent technical evaluations, the appraisal mission has estimated this
amount at between US$30 and 40 million. In addition to the proposed
Agricultural Inputs Program (AIP), the USAID - financed CIP, the Government
of Italy and the African Development Bank are expected to finance
agricultural inputs in 1985.
Agricultural Sector Dialogue
40.       Despite the progress toward the liberalization of the
agricultural sector there remain several fields in which the state's
involvement is leading to inefficiencies, and in which commerce is being
unnecessarily restricted. The Government's policies on the future
development of agricultural input and marketing services were first
discussed with the Government in February, 1985. The most important issues
are described in paragraphs 42 to 45, below. These issues will be studied
as part of the joint IDA-GOS agricultural sector review. The first stage
of this sector review will be done by five task forces, composed of Somali
officials and internationally recruited experts, which have been formed to
study various aspects of the agriculture, fishing and livestock sectors.
The recommendations of the sector task forces will provide the basis for
addressing the changes needed in agricultural production and marketing.
The Government would review, through the work of the task forces, the means
to further promote private sector involvement in grain marketing and
agricultural input supply. Assurances were obtained that by December 31,
1985, Government would discuss with IDA the detailed recommendations of the
sector task forces and prepare a detailed plan of action for the
implementation of agreed recommendations (Section 3.05, Development Credit
Agreement).



-  12  -
41.       In addition to the issues under discussion there are three
specific measures that Government has agreed to take. These measures would
support the Government's commitment to the encouragement of the private
sector and are described in paragraphs 46 to 48 below.
Agriculture Sector Issues
Grain Marketing
42.       Over the last two years the role of the public sector in grain
marketing, has been greatly reduced and the parastatal Agricultural
Development Corporation (ADC) is no longer the sole legal buyer of grain.
The law prohibiting private trade in grains was negated by an amendment in
January 1984 limiting ADC's purchase to 5 percent of total production, and
subsequently by a decision of the Central Committee in February 1985 to
abolish this 5 percent requirement. Henceforth producers are no longer
obliged to sell any grain to ADC. The Government is now reassessing the
future role of ADC. The Government intends that the public sector role in
grain marketing be reduced to providing market information; importing and
distributing of concessional supplies of grain, flour, and related
products; and possibly stabilizing the grain market through open market
operations. The Agricultural sector task foces will study the implications
of the various options and how they could be implemented.
43.       Another important grain marketing issue has been the price at
which grain and flour imported through the National Commercial Agency (ENC)
on concessional terms is to be sold. During 1980-82, concessional imports
made up 27 percent of all grain consumed in Somalia. In future,
coricessional imports of food, if resold within Somalia, would be sold at
commercial border prices and reflect the market exchange rate.
Supply of Agricultural Inputs
44.       Although private traders are now permitted to compete with the
state agencies for the supply and distribution of most agricultural goods
and services, there remain areas of concern to IDA. In the key area of
tractor hire, private services exist, but the parastatal Tractor Hiring
Agency (ONAT), continues to provide a full range of services and is still
the most important supplier. Veterinary drugs may only be imported by the
Ministry of Livestock, although there is a thriving parallel market.
Private sector equipment dealerships are slow in being established because
of the private sector's uncertainity about Government's intentions and the
future of the state-run operations. In the interim there would be
continued public sector involvement in input distribution and machinery
hire services, whilst the private sector continues to build up its
activities. The Government intends that over time the role of the public



- 13 -
sector in the handling of agricultural inputs would be limited toi
approval/ certification of drugs, chemicals and seed; dealing with major
outbreaks of pests and diseases; distribution of prescription drugs and
vaccination of animals; distribution of particular inputs during a
promotional phase; and, temporarily, seed production. To assure optimal
encouragement of private sector investment the pricing of public services
would be based on the principle of full recovery of all investment and
operating costs of the organization.
Cost Recovery
45.       Cost recovery mechanisms for services in the agricultural sector
have only been developed in isolated cases. For example, in the IDA -
financed North-West Region Agricultural Development Project, only 50
percent of the construction costs of on-farm conservation works and
irrigated gardens are to be recovered. In order to ensure that the
recurrent cost of externally financed projects can be provided by
Government after project completion, cost recovery in agricultural sector
projects is an urgent concern. The sector task force on Economics of
Agriculture will examine cost recovery In existing and proposed projects
and propose measures to mobilize more resources through taxation and/or
charges for land, water and government services. The Government and IDA
would jointly review cost recovery in ongoing IDA financed projects and
carry out a review to explore the opportunities to promote private sector
involvement of these services.
Fish Marketing
46.      Private retail fish marketing is legal and is practiced in most
areas of the country. The Ministry of Fisheries, however, is still
operating six retail fish markets in Mogadishu, in which fresh fish is sold
at one-half to one-third the prevailing open market price. Fishing
cooperatives are apparently obliged to sell to these outlets at less than
prevailing prices.  Nonetheless, the private retail markets in Mogadishu
sell about double the volume of fish sold by the Government stores.
The Government has agreed that the fisheries sector task force would
address the question of the future operation and structure of the
Government retail fish markets in Mogadishu. The Government would by
July 1, 1985 terminate the purchase and sale of fresh fish at other than
market prices, and by December 31, 1985 discuss with IDA its proposals for
the future of the Mogadishu retail fish market and prepare a detailed plan
of action for the implementation of the agreed recommendations.



- 14 -
Distribution of veterinary drugs
47.       Owing to the weakness of the Government veterinary service and
the shortage of foreign exchange, there is a considerable unmet demand for
veterinary medicines. A number of curative preparations and drugs that are
now supplied only through the Ministry of Livestock could safely be
supplied to livestock owners by commercial distributors. These include
antihelminthics, acaricides, eye and wound ointments, chemicals for
treatment of foot rot, and antibiotics in powder. These drugs together
account for at least half the value of all veterinary drugs consumed.
As of June 1, 1985 Government would authorize dealers to import and sell
from an approved list of items which can safely be distributed through
commercial channels. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that as a
condition of disbursement of funds from Part A of the Credit for veterinary
drugs, the Government would provide IDA with a list of commercial traders
authorized to import and sell from an approved list of drugs (Schedule 1,
Development Credit Agreement).
Repair of Government-owned agricultural machinery
48.       There are many broken but repairable Government-owned tractors,
bulldozers and other agricultural machines lying idle at Government
agricultural schemes. The immediate obstacle to repairing them is shortage
of foreign exchange for parts. The more fundamental issues, however, are
that Government owns too much machinery, often of inappropriate types, and
does not recruit and retain enough qualified technicians to maintain it.
IDA and Government have identified four workshops (at Kurtun Warrey,
Sablalle, Shalambod and Geenaale) that would benefit from an immediate
repair program, as a first step in the long-run rationalization and
improvement of the machinery maintenance system. Between April and June
1985, a consultant financed under the PPF of the AIP credit will compile a
detailed inventory of the parts and manpower needed to repair all the
viable machinery at these workshops. If the inventory is satisfactorily
completed, the proposed AIP credit would finance the purchase of the spare
parts and materials needed, along with any technical assistance required to
carry out the repairs. Government has agreed to sell any machinery at
these locations that is determined by an independent consultant to be
superfluous or inappropriate, and dispose of any that is unrepairable. The
consultant would be financed under the AIP. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that by December 31, 1985, Government would discuss with
IDA its plan concerning the sale and disposal of this equipment, and would
prepare a detailed plan of action for the implementation of the agreed
recommendations (Section 3.06, Development Credit Agreement). In addition,
the agricultural task forces would prepare recommendations on the question
of machinery ownership, repair and maintenance in all public sector
agencies, including the recruitment and retention of technicians.



- 15 -
Part IV - THE PROGRAM
49.       The program was appraised In February 1985.  A supplementary
project data sheet is attached as Annex III. Negotiations were held
in Washington, D.C.,  April 25 - May 6, 1985.   The Somali delegation was
led by H.E. the Minister of Finance, Dr. Mohamed Sheikh Osman, and included
Messrs. Elabeh, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of National Planning; M. M.
Nur, Director General, Ministry of Finance; and Abdullahi Sheikh Ali,
Director General Planning and Administration, Ministry of Agriculture.
A Credit and Project Summary is provided at the beginning of this report.
Objectives of the Agricultural Inputs Program
50.       At a special meeting on January 23, 1985 of the Consultative
Group for Somalia, IDA announced its intention to prepare a credit of
US$10 million equivalent and the Government of the Federal Republic of
Germany (FRG) a grant of about DM 30 million (approximately US$9.5 million)
to help Somalia finance part of its 1985 agricultural inputs requirement.
Program funds are expected to be fully committed by the end of 1985. The
objectives of the program are:
a)   To maintain, and ultimately increase, production in the
agriculture, fisheries and livestock sectors through provision of
foreign exchange to import equipment, machinery, spare parts,
diesel fuel, drugs, and other inputs;
b)   To assist Government to rationalize the role of the public sector
and to stimulate orivate sector activities in agriculture by
carrying out a joint agricultural sector review and exchanging
views with IDA on policy and institutional reforms;
c)   To stimulate the expansion of commercial dealerships and retail
outlets for agricultural inputs; and
d)   To provide agricultural inputs to support the Government's
Economic Recovery Program in 1985.
Program Strategy
51.       Although the Government has started the process of reducing
its direct involvement in the agriculture, fishing and livestock sectors,
as described in Part III, its policies in some areas remain unclear, and in
other areas further liberalization measures still need to be taken. This
credit would be used to support arnd accelerate the implementation of



- 16 -
Government policies in this direction.  IDA has linked the processing of
the proposed AIP credit to the joint agricultural sector review described
in paragraph 40, and in particular to the rationalization of the public
sector's role, and the stimulation of the private sector in the areas of
grain marketing and agricultural input distribution. The task forces have
been formed and the internationally recruited technical advisor to the
coordinating committee is In place. By August 1985 the preliminary reports
and recommendations of the task forces would be available, so that
discussions on their proposals and further actions could be held with the
World Bank and other donors. This would lead to the preparation of the
joint Agricultural Sector Survey Report, which would identify policy and
institutional reforms and possible project support.  The target date for
completion is December 31, 1985.
Description of Program
52.       The program would provide foreign exchange to import equipment,
supplies and fuel for the agriculture, fisheries and livestock sectors.
Within this framework, the $19.5 million equivalent would be allocated as
described below.
Part A - Commercial Imports. (US$12.2 million equivalent) This would
consist of foreign exchange to be sold to individuals, firms or public
sector agencies, at the prevailing market exchange rate for the Somali
shilling, to purchase letters of credit to import the following items:
i. agricultural tools, machinery, implements and related spare parts
and material;
ii. tractors for commercial dealers, private farmers and agricultural
production enterprises including banana and sugar growers;
iii. water pumps and irrigation equipment;
iv. seeds and planting material;
v. fishing gear and equipment, and engines and spare parts for
boats;
vi. veterinary drugs and preparations;
vii. chemicals for water treatment and packaging for the urea
fertilizer factory; and,
viii. raw materials and parts for the boat factory.



- 17 -
There would-be a minimum letter of credit value of US$10,000 equivalent,
and a maximum disbursement limit for any one importer of US$1 million
equivalent. Importers would have to deposit shillings equivalent to 50
percent of the letter of credit's value when opening it, and the remainder
when the goods arrive In port. The estimated uptake of these funds for
various items Is shown in Annex IV. Not later than September 30, 1985,
the Government and IDA would, as part of the general review of
disbursement, jointly review the uptake for each category in Part A, and
revise the guidelines as necessary (Section 3.07, Development Credit
Agreement).
Part B - Imports for Government. (US$2.7 million equivalent) This would
consist of foreign exchange provided at the official exchange rate to the
Ministries of Livestock, Fisheries and Agriculture for plant protection
services, spare parts to rehabilitate agricultural equipment at the four
identified workshops and other urgently needed imported items. Details are
given in Annex IV.
Part C - Diesel Fuel. (US$4.0 million equivalent) This would be allocated
for the purchase of diesel fuel by Government for sale for agricultural,
fisheries and livestock purposes. About 15,000 tonnes would be purchased,
which amounts to about 7 percent of Somalia's annual consumption of diesel
fuel for all uses in recent years. The fuel would be procured through
international competitive bidding. The applicable exchange rate will be in
accordance with the terms of the prevailing agreement between the IMF and
the GOS, which currently permits Government petroleum purchases to be
imported for resale at the official exchange rate. The fuel will be
allocated to each region in accordance with the estimated requirements of
users in the region. All financial costs including those of distribution
will be fully recovered, as they are il -he existing fuel distribution
system.
Part D - Technical Assistance. (US$0.6 million equivalent) This would
finance technical assistance and operating costs of a procurement unit
for the administration of parts A, B, and C of the credit; the technical
assistance for preparing the spare parts list and rehabilitating
agricultural equipment at the four specified workshops, and part of the
cost of the agricultural sector task forces. A-total of 36 man-months of
consultancy is required.



- 18 -
Cost and Financing
53.       The US$19.5 million total program cost would be financed 51
percent by IDA and 49 percent by the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG),
according to the following plan:
US$ million
IDA    FRG   Total Percentage
Part A (commercial imports)        5.6   6.6   12.2         63
Part B (imports for Government)   --   2.7    2.7           14
Part C (diesel fuel)               4.0   --    4.0          20
Part D (technical assistance)      0.4   0.2    0.6          3
10.0   9.5   19.5       100
The FRG financing for Part A will be on a parallel basis and is not tied to
procurement from FRG.  The local costs, consisting of office space and
support staff for the procurement unit, would be borne by Government and
are not included in total program costs. A PPF of US$150,000 has been
approved to cover the estimated foreign costs of compiling the detailed
inventory of the spare parts and manpower needed at the four machinery
workshops and for the recruitment and establishment of the procurement unit
in the Ministry of Finance. A further PPF of US$250,000 was approved to
finance the portion of the costs of the agricultural sector task forces not
covered under the recently approved SPPF of US$250,000.
Organization and Implementation
54.       To implement Part A of the program, a procurement/controller's
unit would be established in the Ministry of Finance to publicize the
program, receive and screen applications, maintain accounts and assist
importers (Section 3.04, draft Development Credit Agreement). An
interna:ionally recruited procurement expert and a small local staff would
form the unit. The FRG would provide a second procurement expert for the
unit. The unit would receive and assess applications for foreign exchange
and present them weekly to thelnterministerial Committee responsible for
Somalia's commodity aid programs. The committee would screen and recommend
the applications to the Minister of Finance for final approval (Section
3.03 and Schedule 4, Development Credit Agreement).
55.       For Part B of the program the Ministries of Agriculture,
Fisheries and Livestock would prepare their detailed lists of imports and
submit them through the procurement unit to the co mittee and the Minister
of Finance for approval. The procurement unit would carry out the
procurement for Parts B and C.



- 19 -
56.       The Commerical and Savings Bank of Somalia (CSBS), which is an
Independent but GOS-owned entity, would be involved in implementation of
Part A. Once applications are approved by the Minister of Finance, the
CSBS would instruct its correspondent international bank to issue a letter
of credit to the supplier. The CSBS would charge the importer its usual
fee for this service. The CSBS would also accept importers' deposits of
Somali shillings to the Government's account to cover the cost of the
letters of credit. These arrangements will be described in a written
agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the CSBS. As the CSBS has
already been performing a similar role for the USAID-financed Commodity
Imports Program, it is familiar with these procedures.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Procurement under Part A would be on the basis of limited
international tendering by soliciting quotations from three or more
suppliers (Schedule 4, Development Credit Agreement). The procurement unit
would review all invitations to quote and all suppliers' responses
(Schedule 4, draft Development Agreement). Quotation from more than one
supplier would not be required if the importer, as the supplier's
authorized distributor or dealer, is precluded from buying from another
supplier or if the importer is purchasing a registered brand-name
commodity from a supplier who is the exclusive distributor of the commodity
in the area of the importer. Importers who have special relationships with
a supplier would be required to provide documentary evidence of such
relationships to the procurement office. (Schedule 3, Development Credit
Agreement). Procurement under Part B (imports for Government) will be in
accordance with FRG procedures. Procurement of diesel fuel under Part C
will be by international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Consultants would be selected according to normal procedures
acceptable to ID. 'Schedule 3, Developmei;c Credit Agreement).
58.       Disbursement would be made for the total foreign costs of
eligible imports against full documentation. To facilitate disbursement of
the IDA Credit for Part A, the government would open a Special Account in
US dollars in a large international commercial bank. IDA would deposit
credit proceeds equivalent to about three months' estimated disbursements
under Part A (about US$3 million). The CSBS would instruct this bank to
issue each letter of credit, and would simultaneously inform IDA, which
would advise the Government of any objection. The CSBS and the
international commercial bank would submit a detailed statement of the
transactions on the account to Government. The procurement unit would
maintain relevant records in such form and detail as shall be required by
IDA to determine



- 20 -
the eligibility of goods and services financed under the Credit, and they
would submit a statement of these transactions to IDA on a monthly basis
(Section 4.01(b), Development Credit Agreement). FDr Part D, IDA would
disburse against 100 percent of the total costs of the internationally
recruited procurement expert, preparation of the spare parts list and the
agricultural sector task force expenditures. The FRG would disburse
against 100 percent of the total costs of internationally recruited
mechanics to carry out the rehabilitation of the machinery at the four
identified workshops.
Accounts, Audit and Evaluation
59.       Overall program accounts would be maintained by the procurement
unit established for this program in the Ministry of Finance. They would
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and be
available within four months (Section 4.01 (b), Development Credit
Agreement). The Ministry of Planning would monitor the use and economic
effect of the credit proceeds. In addition, not later than six months
after completion of the proposed program, the Government would prepare and
furnish to IDA a complete report on the costs and benefits resulting from
the proposed credit.
Environmental Impact
60.       Pesticides and fertilizers to be financed under the credit would
be items already in use in Somalia and approved by the United Nations Food
and Agriculture Organization. Pesticide application is mainly carried out
by the Plant Protection Department of the Ministry of Agriculture. Any
pesticides purchased under the program would be financed by the FRG under
Part B; discussions are under way with FRC on how the Bank's guidelines on
the selection and use of pesticides will be applied. Fertilizers are used
on only a small proportion of Somalia's agricultural area and the
quantities to be financed by the credit would not have a significant
environmental impact. The list of veterinary drugs to be procured under
Part A for commercial distribution will exclude any, such as antibiotics,
against which resistance can develop as a result of uncontrolled use.
Benefits and Risks
61.       The program's main benefit would be the maintenance of
agricultural, livestock and fishery production made possible by the
provision of the required inputs. Owing to the shortage of foreign
exchange in recent years, production losses have occurred as a result of
the non-availability of key inputs such as fertilizer, plant protection
materials, spare parts and fuel for irrigation pumps and tractor-driven
implements. The renewed availability of the basic inputs would act as an
incentive to agricultural producers. The proposed credit also would also



- 21 -
support and extend the Government's program of reducing and rationalizing
its own role in these sectors. It would help motivate private enterprise
to expand its role in specific activities, such as veterinary drugs
distribution and tractor hire services. The credit would assist Government
in fulfilling its obligations in certain agreed areas of Government
involvement, such as production of animal vaccines and plant protection
services. In conjunction with the Economic Recovery Program and possible
further support from the international donor community, the proposed credit
would support the process of agricultural policy and institutional reform
and create the necessary environment for the required investments to
achieve longer term growth of the economy in agriculture, fisheries and
livestock.
62.       There is some risk that not all the funds provided under Part A
would be readily disbursed, because the inputs would be imported at the
free market exchange rate. However, demand is expected to be sufficient to
absorb the funds provided under the AIP. The Joint Government/IDA mid-term
review would pay particular attention to the status of disbursements.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the government of
Somalia and the Association, and the Recommendations of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
seperately.
64.       Special Conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 28, 1985
Washington, D.C.



Annex I
-  22                                                                     f
--~~~~~~~~~~~c PA  of 6
SONALIA                 - SOCIAL INDICATOR8 DArA SLmuT
RegALIA                               REFCRENCE CGOUPS (MCI: .'ED AVE.  S   s
Mosr                      (MOST ACCENT EST=MATE) lb
RECENT          LOW INCOME AFRICA         MIDDLE LirsW
1;t.otk   1,70.rb  csrmnzdb         soUT  or SaMAA        AF%ICA S. w SAMARA
am  (TCIDSm Sq. M_
TOTAL                                 637.7       137.7     637.1
AGRICULTURAL                          IS.1t       296.7    299.7
crp ma cAPITA WUSS)                      110.        120.0    290.0               2494                    1112.9
RESCT CONSUWTIEU PE CAPITA
IMZLOGARIS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)          LL-0        25.0      90s0               12.6                    529.0
M,U,;Ttm AS1 WCTA STATXSnCS
rapuLATIONID-YtAa (THOUSANDS)        2450-0      3238.0    4513.0
URBAN POFUtArION (Z OP TOTAL)           7-3        23.1      31.7               L9.2                    29.7
POPULATIOK PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                              6.9
sTATIONART POPULATION CHILL)                               22.8
POrULATimI  CENTM                                           i.e
POPULATION DENSITY
PER  sq. ".                           3.86        3.1       49                12.1                     11.6
PER SQ. la. AM I   LAND               8.2        10.8      IR.7              119.2                   Il1.1
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (I)
0O14 YRS                            43.8        L6.5      43.1               41.6                     45.4
15-64 nES                            53.6        51.6      13.1               51.3                    51.7
b5 AND ABOVE                          2.7         1.9       2.?                2.9                     Z.9
POPULATION GEWIN RATE (t)
rOTLn                                 1.8. 2.8              2.6                2.8                      2.8
URBAN                                 4.8         5.7       5.4                6.2                      1.z
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PEE TrOUS)           48.2        46.2      48.3               48.6                    47.0
CRUDE DEATN URTE (PER TROUS)           2d.9        Z6.       Z5.1.              11.1                      5.2
cRoss nPRDDaICTION RATE                 3.2         3.2       3.0                3.2                      3.2
FAILT PLFANING
CCEPTOR. ANUAL (TSOUS)                 ..          ..
USERS (Z Of KARRIED WStEN).
FOOD AIID LrnomR
INDEX 01 FOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-LDD)                          97.0       100.0      60.0               85.8                    91.6
PER CArtTA SUPPLY OF
CALoMS (E OP REQUIREMTS)             89.0        82.0     100.0               86.4                    98.2
PRTEIZS (CGRM  PER DAT)              76.0        68.0      7a.0               49.9                    56.7
oF utICa ANIMAL AND PULSE          *7.0        43.0 a    3.0 /c             11.3                    17.0
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATN RATE           6t1.         33.0      47.0               23.8                    18.7
MA%LTll
LIFT  EXPECT. AT BLRTH (TEARS)         34.0        37.2      38.8               44.4                    51.7
INFANT HORT. RATE (PER TOlS)         23.0        200.0    184.0                117.3                   102.7
ACCESS TO SAM UATER (lOPP)
TOTAL                                            13.0      23.0 Id            21.8                    31.6
LA                                     ..        17.0      58.0 id            61.1                    34.L
RUlAL                                  ..        14.0      20.0 ad            14.2                    27.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(r or POPULATION)
TOTAL                                                      47.0 la            32.0
URlBAsN                                                    77.0 a.            69.2
RURAL                                                      35.0 r.            24.8
POPULATION PER PNHSICIAN            36570.0    2&3a0.0  14290.0              27a77.8                 11948.3
POP. PER NURSING PERSOIN             810.0       4280.0   2330.0              3396.2                  2248.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
.OTAL                               690.0       660.D     660.0 Ic          L069.0                   986.9
u RA                               a40.0        280.0         -              395.2                   368.7
RURAL                              5640.0      7390.0                       3094.0                  '012.1
AWMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL 8E               ..          ..        .
AVERACE SIZE aF HOUSENOLD
TOTAL
URIAIIU
RURAL                                  '- 5.1 Ic
vERACE NO. OF PERSON31ROO0
TOt AL                                 ..          ..        .                   ..
LESAN                                  ..          ..        .                   ..
RURAL                                  ..         -..-s
ACCESS TO ELECT. Ct OF ONELLINS)S
TOTAL
URBA                                   ..          ..        .                   ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..



-  23  -                                                            Annex I
PAcE 3 of 6
O R                  t"IC iNhipaini~~~lUE  KCIzN? ITA!)  L1k
CkICT           LOU INC     AFRICA        MIDDLE I4UU
19neA       linall   u    ITDAT!L     SOUTH Of SAHARA       AFRtCA 1. Of ALAMi
EDOCATICE
ADJU2TSO cNROLLKINT RATIO$
PIL*TI   tOTAL                        *.0        11.0      30.0               69.2                    91.0
KlUL                      13.0        17.0      31.0               71.1                    god
?UEALI                     5.0         5.0      21.0               37.6                    7.6
agCOUIIY  TOTAL                      1.0         3.0      11.0               13.1                    17.4
HALZ                       2.0         1.0      16.0               17.6                    23.7
TUEL"                       ..         2.0       6.0                8.3                    14.8
VOCATIOIL (z 0f sCCONDaT)              26.4         3.1      17.6                7.2                     3.3
PU1IL-TIAhR UATWO
PnINAI                               21.0        33.0      33.0               46.1                    31.6
sCCOKmAy                             20.0        24.0      21.0               25.9                    24.3
AI.T LITEACY RATI (C)                   1.5 if      3.0      60.0 1 .2!.                                35.6
PASSNGER CARS/TKOUSAND POP              1.1         2.1        ..                0.8                    20.7
RADIO RCICZVESITIIOUSAISO POP          9.6         13.&      20.4               41.9                   100.8
TV  ICIZVIRS/TBoUSM  IPOP                *-          ..        *-                2.0                    U.5
NWSPAPER (-DAILY GE
LIUTCRUS) CIO:LATION
PEr THOUSAND POPUJATION              0.8          1.5        .                 5.4                    17.2
CINUNA ANIUAL ATTEnDANCEICAPITA        0.S          1.1        *-                1.4                     0.1
LAO F
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            1017.0      1257.0    1731.0
PINLLC (PERCINT)                     30.1        29.7      27.7              3l.3                     33.6
ACRICULTUUE (PERCENT)                88.0        85.0      82.0               77.4                    37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    '.0         6.0       8.0                9.6                   17.4
PAtrICIP&TtON RATZ (PCRCENT)
TOTAL                                41.5        38.8      38.3               41.0                    36.3
MALI                                 58.7        55.2      54.9               52.1                    41.e
FINALE                               24.7        22.8      21.4               30.2                    25.1
CCONOMQC DEPENDENC RPATIO               1.1         1.2       1.2                1.2                     1.;
CIs DSUuLN==
PCRCENT OF PRtVATE INCOME
REZCEID  r
HICHCST 5X0o  HOUSEHOLDS 
HICNEST 201 or HOUS5HOLDS
LOWEST 20=  OF HOUSZHOLDS                                                                               ,,
LOST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS
POrnE TARCT Gom
ESrMATED ABSOLUTE POVEArY L:CCKE
LEVEL (U5t PER CAPITA)
UR                                      .                 150.0 /J           1681.3                  525.3
RURAL                                                     110.0 /j            90.8                   249.0
ESTIArTED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (1U5t PER CAPITA)
t1114                                                      65.0 1            107.7                   477.4
RURAL                                                      50.0               55.0                   L86.0
ESTIUATED POP. BELOW ASOLUTE
POVERTY XHCCI LEVEL (I)
URBAN                                  ,,          ,,      40.0 /L            34.7
RURAL                                                      70.0 /Ig           55.4
NOT AVAILAdLE
NOT A!PLSCABLE
11 o r c s
/a   The group average  for each indicator arm populatom-welghted aritImtlc  _an.  Coverage of countries omong the
lndicators depends on ava1labillty of data and Is not uniform.
/b   Uole - ocherwlse noted. -Data for 1960  rotor to any year becumen 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970  bctwn 1969 wd
1971; and daca for 'most atoet Zstiet-  between 1980 and 1982.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /a 1975; /f 1962; /I 1978; lb  Inecrae due to literacy campaign of 1974.
JUNE, 1984



-   ..iSp. .Ao   it    an   30i              g * '0II Sllto    oja    p 00
u.P.- p..  lo,-b4bJ.-.- iSt.3.. _5d  -.J.I               A  .l  .... ltSl3S  I
*.  a.. .o.~  o.oi.tp  *P-t. IS 3o0   m. lpp0015   3  DlIltt
-         I0-101303  0333  1*        3505olin  *tt0lA           loS   30tc W    0fltq
at-~                                                                                               -. aO.-*  i.I..sS    P012.54 -n           ai-gS*)              pt.lO
3iq 10l0t3 -   *All  IijS                  n   .au Am d01 -          S
i-fl0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ mu.*.hat Pt ~ ~ ~           ~             ~             ~             ~             ~            ..P  ft  -   Mt'06   :31
3000 ;3   3  -01 *obbItv  351A                                                                         *    S                                      -. *I3.41              00
M   p- I~W - I-PIS R;                       J=   ---       ~        ~        ~        SSPtt!P'COt0tt131*0anl3003-   l  I  *.
- (3*0.5) 3.01  e.t  AA555  *3051wyloin-S5ff5s5    P=IIISA                                                                                                                tijI,T.
p     *W -.I"   A n.-   Si  AH1       5         0 II3  I51  0.Slt(I oPl 3-S
-.= d. r-9--m                  -5  -Mi          ~      lOtP0Jt                                                                                                         -oa
- Il... in.n33   -  .0*50.. 015)ISo., a-St53ASSA  IIt.SO   .lttl"**CO .....                                               I -        J_'-wn              III-. lS  FliIt  .3
poo         .13015 ~ -w   tqI.Pa     3      .An.             15l.0   30                                  .      .        ii    t   t  5035535--_10)i*tl   *
ul  '~lS34*..  33  Sll      Stii.A..  At010005      tO=Ot.0                                         e               .          0 I    3.1    ,3.5003  llt                O* PF-    0S
pIo ,    .. A.J0 iIlVA3.54*                                                      li3      itm        5110  P.t 't1 035p .0.  lid
oabod  bIlmb I?. A.            2*  1    _005    .1-A       -  &                                        ....                                ..  ...t.SAitAl    3   1  d3t
-   -1  _'I I  -1  -                                      ....20J )l12                 l5 "03l-   3t0                .o iJ.*i......  ..t. oa   nso  S                     a
3l~~St301    A) SAm S*lot 3.5 -J         ...~~~ ~~~~I.i  J..t .t.,.I   alI       Mo10oa'.t IA         4o   sS  .   3-o
*    Ili   0110ftt  3   *..SItt.~OtS isslm.3t*  .-slo  -M 510                                p-p5   aA    ttOla   a                    o      3033   533   S   S3A.AOS
04.055  nSt  Stal -*   100     a  I505A  54 a-Ift        5tI                                                                                      -  ltp3A.     6to5t.A503.SttAfI..   tJnIt.. i
P o S..oiSosl' .-   *-5I.so                    30      3l.St51St5*3
l3l~  1184 *~             lootI-.--  J...     tt.    ..5l    n4 *r4                   ~      t3t0    515
pS  11 .0    ..a.5 loSi t   53  sStf    iI1S                     ti.'3                        ea a. ..t.. ....t t3pS                11tlA sotilgoaseo.-.
00051       . A0S   sP -I AL SD. S   ....* - .. J55   S33tad-TiidiS                                                          10      1.-t-qt*t.                 t-
.. 1 .. . V-     t351 -1151   01    mi3ttISt            .sS  330                                                 J.S t3i
-1. n_ _     IN                                                                                                                                                Mu~~~~3Oi0'P"  3   sl  lti Ii   3a.tSAStl   14)  5  lt snsd
.Imb, A. bovIIII.-Ill-   ovI  P.  -4.                                                                         ,Ab-c SP03S5  .10*3.tti.tt*3    Ji ta   lhitqplt    S 00505
f-  1-1.1,bottSoIttl                                                                        .          JWiSf0P3i                .        1liOfl3.tl"I.Sl
51 asIlUopa        ,   I       a5 .t.ts3t.i.ai..    05patAl    'I-(,A                                                                                    I                          ..0.
5i  or033  apSl5l- .01 130    0 s.~S0SlP5t333313000   St            It.ft.l1AAt '.~   .~  tea   * and..  5530' P         -tOO   i*4tI*0t. 3t.p
bqb 5-o o IIt 8111-1045t   1AtP    30                                                        s..l  o3310i.t                     130.33    10535                                 3N4
PliSPt01  Il 33   ttAl 10tPOSASA  Si ~~~~~t0.is4  psiap  -ta1-ti-ow..A                                                                     -
(StPO,JI- 1-P          . q-i5 p  2A t"    J.ISS JISslA  t*M1i0to,oa ".I"i.   ti33~*ss.   .4 t  IUtb  '"46I .to.A                                                                       tt
0,10. SIt 5550 - iSltIlitSt 95013113   --I-. StOtltJWiS.13.jt.lSt.lIASJlOiS   S3  p                                                            J3 _OsSPlsl    1-Ii
tAflj  01 obb abS o      j*to  35,3.- 03*  01300214 -P-- 313t    3.s0I.35t.1l                                                              '0 ~ i*lO-S.                 ;..tsPais    1
t .fos      1a.Ia35.   P35.053*  .4  .tt.            d _03                                                                       tl    it  30   st   00   aIItA
035W1i0 DW IasPa,  Al-ttsiitsplJ 5)ant.si                                                          55p0  1pCO    S   3310tow-3.013    lt50   0*13,p.~
lOiSI3OAil PtSttSt  3155333000                                3131 tStt pSI   o3Ct ~~.nt 1..tliSt   a
SC     .... dIfb       3a.* 55At A-    tO                      355   td53                                   0*3   3003    433~0.t   nt       p.lst  o                           tttft   p*
A..V--  I-.p  ob rait.                                       Llt5I                        00tt33  tt*a.sA    tl.A      tml     Iisnoi                              Wbti     S'ttGm s
i50i  35   t_ p.8. t.3S    i  I W1t35-ft                                             .lti itt-.   l80013                       l                           twy  i
oob - lOO -PS.                    2  FtP"0   5  S33. tJpl It -(tiAd  OtIS                                                              P- StP  tlOlt     Itn 1     003 101Iir
St P01t05~~s  tln.tS  10304 - AOtlOflt in   55laPA5 - limb                        I`#           1-9  1-till.Il                                tl-J  gotmol 5Z    Z
t~n.iStan- ..shid    533tl  l  tlliltpit    OAistAtilltO   3             5.tI      I..  033 -  a3dItOt3ii  ~   3t 3IIlttd     4Altdi......li.t
l0t55it  llitA                    - (S2333504                  itl        030O                              3   10351             sOaI   tIlt:::         Pot  t3,o ttt           ot
IlpO.3t1-1  do suA- 554.  lU                         SS 4mb4   51s.3 J.p                                        S.3v1- itbttoo33A5t310    l1tt  I01541.0
Jip...  r~ot 0  tI     -stws  pt  ue   tt3 tn.5*tp0I1                     10303  5  stn-0     03  . oia.T.s.TtA pSSii  lS   0  i
t35  in  0011  30353 SIIAI - *tlOl Ft. 5105 ~ ~ ~      ~          ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         ~         ..P it P- ''G
Vbm "'Pow W-1-1  .t                                     SAtS                       530013   51        .ttS    333   1    nt..401I...oiI   Iiti
.Obno..4 1   itlOFtltIAi*iIIq3 1111    n    lodl.o,                                                             3*m 1at1 3313W..  PI."-40   Slit .111      t1 5tf2t1s.
p- 01*. pdWq Pboqaa  330   p- Ist3itt*15*          .  p5 31 100i3i3i    ttfl                            o    *i3t    tt   aIo-i333.   3AotfW                        tI   Sa0pta
'13114 psi.tto.-t.             *0*03  tO. oOt_       0*1  *t.-t.t*      3    o .0124.e.i                   I        nA
ttS 1i   1645    10   p0l  '503331  IMI mt j a.ti    stS                                      Oi30piloI..t*Sd  O   IOl   I*1   -1 tL*ttil.
*03011    itS*  lttle  in 00330   Ilt    030   315 uIlSibito tSqotCWl..l AB.,---iWP-It-VJO
"s.iia..tI. 13  itbt03r.   =-3                                      l--P BPi                                  tO    059'1APAt.3
Pt..3S   00b p-110 *0-40            t.          5113         Il ta   it   0                                    3l   .SlmltO              3)111   el30000  11    
lJS0Aah ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~W- tiu  *003   la,ltli    ..lp ilhI.LLoIo-    -                                                                                   -11-*-1.-p-.03f  to  &1l5  - .
.1 NoMboob. IN4      -1-          F-  _W-l                  52000                   00*   I  *IPaI "031  I Jt i  OP - tlP.551    :=                      I 
`Coo.p-IbI    b5510IN.    D0135   *M.-  ..50TIOTSiosl*lt bW-    .1                                   .......                   k                                       mow   ootP0iWI
oW  1    '6.a  11(10   3i o.  L  a.. boA F.I...lSt.i                               itt It I- 1111.oE 1 ..t.OS   t    0 0d0   ot  *   A, 03   t-00                        p3
in  ttnt  SOl           w tOllfI ; iOtt  qAitO P1.o..I ltts1. pi".00    303il1lt S                                 ipop0  0 .             1   StAt         Iolli    i151             .       "AS "t
go     E                                                                                                            -10100   ttoi0.ottd*itFt.a  03a.*33   43I   lla  I hi     3tIsttO tI.d    . .o     .td3Tl   0t33313   j.a
I     xauu               Ojn3.11 330133sitStIlo                             011OiuSS*Si



Annex I
Page 4 of 6
- 25 -
SOMALIA COUNTRY DATA
Economic Indicators
GNP Per Capita - US$266 (1982) 1J
Annual Rate of Growth of CDP
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1982 1/                                     at Constant Factor Cost (Z)
(Fiscal Years)
US$ Mln.           z                    1977-81       1981      1982
GDP at Market Prices            1339.1          100.0                    -3.0        4.4       8.5
Investment                      267.5            20.0
Resource Balance               -292.6            21.9
Export of Goods and NFS         152.4            11.4
Import of Goods and NFS         484.2            36.2
OUTPUT IN FY1982
Value Added
USS Mln.        X
Agriculture                         595.4        49.9
Industry                           133.4         11.2
Services                           462.8         38.9
1249.6       100.0
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979       1980       1981        1982       1983       1984
(M i l 1i o n   So. Sh.)            (Rev. Est.)
Total Revenue                         1526       1421       2263        2760       4075       3971
Current Expenditure                   1573       1670       2295        2750       4470       7965
Current Surplus or Deficit (-)        -47        -249        -32          10       -395      -3994
Other Expenditures 2/                 1684       1462       1425        2616       2097       3299
Overall Deficit                       1731       1771       1457       2626        2492       7293



Annex I
-  26  -                                 Page 5 of 6
BMANC OF PAYTNS
1979     1980 1/   1981        1982    1983      1984 1/
(alicu 3E Iblias)             (Prelim. Actual)
M      _rchuK1ia  Exports (f.o.b.)   106       133       114        137      100       58
trchard1se l Yrwts (c.i.f.)1/      -394      -4.61      -422       -48f    -450      -408
Trade Bel                          -288      -328       -308       -347    -350      -350
N1r-factor servlces                 -12        -8         -1          9       4       -43
an  factor  i n et
Private transfers, net                36       57         64         11      19        62
zrreat Acouat Ba1lne                -264     -279       -245       -327    -327      -331
DIrect Inestnmt                       -         -          -         -        -         -
Official (nt Aid                      58      143        150        157      148      177
Private, met                          4         -          -          -       -         -
fficin, met                          84        87         79        123     100        46
Use of Fmd Oedit                      -         4         30         34      414       -4
Ertors and  Lssions                   19       21          3         -3     -14        10
Oeral1   M                           99       -24         17        -10     -49      -102
KAlE OF E    %
Fra 1973 to Jue 30, 91   - US$1.00  So.Sh. 6.295
July 1, 1981-Juie 30, 1982   - A dual ezdiage rate wifth
-  So.Sh. 6.295 (for essential Impot)
- So.Sh. 12.590 (for all otber foreign
July 1, 1982-Oct. 22, 1983   - So.Sh. 15.227
ort. 23, W983-Sept. 14, 1984 - So.Sh. 17.55
Sept. 15, 1984Dec. 31, 1984 - So.Sh. 26.00
Jan. 1, L985 21              - So.sh. 36.00
1/ The i iport data for 1979-81 and 1984 IElie Franco Valuta imports.
2/ Rate for alzst all private transactions is determined in a free foreign
-       uha . riket.



Annex I
Page 6 otf 6
-  27  -
MU, CD    AND PERIS
Dec.      Dec.      Dec.      Dec.      Dec.        Dac.
1979      1980      1981      1982      1983       1984
(M i 11 i o n  So. Sh.)
Berk Oafs an GCovert (net)        1,231     1,902      2,250     2,100    1,805       4,378
lBrk CAI  m Private Sector
and Publc  1erprises            1,726      1,977     2,296     2,924    3,456       5,238
X7ey &iply                        2,335     2,783      3,674     4,108    4,309       6,933
(Percente of Idex Nubers)
Geral Price Index (1977-100)       136.2     217.1      313.4     3B4.2    524.0    1,007.0
lmal Peretage Qamie in
Gneral Price lcx                 23.8      59.4       44.4      22.6     36.4        92.0
Bank Chians   Private Sector
and Riblc  1aerprises             22.9      14.6       16.1      27.3     18.2        21.5
mtxy szpp9y (M)                     35.1      19.2      32.0       11.8      4.9       60.9
MUISE ERaS
Average 1977-79        1980               1981              1982
US$ Kin    Z       US$ Mn   %        US$ Min    %      US$ In    Z
Livestodc                     71.2    74.5      101.6   76.2       98.0    85.8    106.0    80.9
Baaeas                        9.8    10.3         8.1    6.1        6.0     5.3      14.0    13.7
Heat ard Meat Producm          2.1     2.2        1.0    0.7        0.3     0.3       0.2     0.1
Iddes aid Scins               5.8      6.0        6.6    5.0        2.0     1.7       4.0     3.1
Fish and Fish Products        1.5      1.6        0.3    0.2        1.0     0.8       2.5     1.9
Otbers                        5.2      5.4       15.6   11.7        6.9     6.1       4.3     3.3
Tbtal                        95.6   100.0       133.3  100.0      114.0   100.0    131.0   100.0
EfOEL llT                              US$ Mln.
PubUic  DLbt (Dec. 31, 1983)3/         1,503.9
(of whch disbursed)                  1,149.1
DM SERVIC: RATo 
Public Debt 1983 (estimate)
(after debt relief)                     17.2
MIL    fl     rch 31, 1985)
(xstanding and Disbured                  164.5
Undisbursed                               71.1
Outsta ing inc. Urmisbursed              235.6
3/ E1Jmier ucxisbursed caxtaets frcm East European comtries, totalling US$154 mllic, *hh are not
expected to be disbursed any furtier.
May 1985



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Pag  li  2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
A. Statement of IDA Credits (a. of March 31, 1985)
IDA    Undiaburmed
No.    Year   Borrower             Borrower                       (US$ Million)
less cancellations
Thirteen Credits have been fully disbursed                       82.32
635-SO  1976   Somalia           North-West Agriculture        10.0       0.15
699-SO  1977   Somalia           Third Highway
(HargeLsa-Borama)             7.0        1.23
738-SO  1977   Somalia           Third Education                8.0       0.07
821-SO  1978   Somalia           Technical Assistance           3.0       0.53
905-SO  1979   Somalia           Agriculture Extension         10.5       3.40
906-SO  1979   Somalia           Central Rangelands             8.0       1.42
972-SO  1979   Somalia           Bay Agriculture               12.0       8.35
1043-SO 1980   Somalia           Petroleum Exploration
Promotion                     6.0       0.15
1105-SO 1981   Somalia           Fourth Education              10.2       4.44
1236-SO 1982   Somalia           Second Mog. Water Supply    15.0         3.30
1324-SO 1983   Somalia           Fourth Highway                23.0      15.89
1464-SO 1984   Somalia           Afgoy Gas Delineation         18.0      10.67
1465-SO 1984   Somalia           Fisheries Explo. Prom.       13.5       11.49
1538-SO 1985   Somalia          KaW Region Agric. Dev.        10.6 1/   10.60
TOTAL                                        237.30      71.09
of which has been repaid    1.93
TOTAL now held by &DA      235.56
TC,AL Undisbursed                       71.09
1/ Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                                   (Amount in US$ Million)
Year              Obligor                              Loan    Equity    Total
1981               Somali Molasses Co. Ltd.             0.375      -         0.375
1985               Polypropylene Bag Co.                0.600               0.600
Total gross commitments              0.975      -        0.975
less cancellations, terminations,  0.054        -        0.054
Total now held by IFC                0.921      -        0.921



-  30  -                      Annex III
SOMALIA
Agricultural Inputs Program
Supplementsry Data Shout
I Timetable of Key Events
(a)    Initial discussion with Association                    January 1985
(b)    First Bank mission (appraisal)                         February 1985
(c)    Completion of negotiations                             May 1985
(d)    Planned date of effectiveness                          July 1985
II Special Implementation Action by the Association
PPF of US$150,000 granted on March 7, 1985 to finance consultants
on procurement and machinery inventory. A further PPF of
US$250,000 has been approved to fund the remaining portion of the
cost of the agricultural sector task forces not covered under the
recently approved SPPF advance for US$250,000.
III Special Conditions
(a)    Disbursement
No disbursement from Part A of the Credit for veterinary drugs
until a list of commercial traders authorized to import and sel_
these drugs has been provided (para. 47).
(b)    Other Special Conditions
(i)   By December 31, 1985, the GOS would discuss with IDA the
recommendations of the Agricultural Sector Task Forces and
provide a plan of action for the implementaticn of the agreed
recommendations 'para. 40).
(ii) By December 31, 1985, the GOS would discuss with IDA its
plan to dispose of all agricultural machinery at the four
workshops that is determined by an independent consultant
to be superfluous, unreparable or inappropriate and
provide a plan of action for the implementation of the
agreed recommendations (para. 48).
(iii) By September 30, 1985, a review would be carried out of
the status of disbursements under the Program. Cpara. 52)



- 31 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
SOMALIA
Agricultural Input. Program
Components and Estimated Upta!ke
1. Part A - Estimated Uptake
Items                                                  US$ million
Boat engines, fishing gear and
accessoriue, and raw materials for
boat factory                                               2.0
Veterinary drugs                                           1.4
Chemicals and packaging materials for urea plant           0.6
Fertilizers, seeds and planting material                   1.0
Irrigation equipment                                       1.5
Tractors and tractor spare parts                           3.2
Other agriculture equipment, tools,
machinery and related spare parts                          2.5
12.2
2. Part B - Items to be purchased
3US$ million
1. Ministry of Agriculture
a)  Plant protection                              1.00
b) Spare parts and materials for workshops
at Kurtan Warrey, Sablalle, Shalambod
and Geenale                                  0.80
c) Support to ministry operations for
imported items                               0.16       1.96
2. Ministry of Fisheries
a) Cold storage unit (20 tons) and
refrigerated truck                           0.15
b) Support to ministry operations for
imported items                               0.16       0.31
3. Ministry of Livestock
a)  Vaccine Institute
- chemicals and laboratory
supplies                           0.07
- equipment & parts                  0.10
b)  Poultry production & dairy farm
- imported feed and equipment        0.10
c)  Support to ministry operations
-for imported items                          0.16      0.43
2.70



- 32 -
Annex IV
Page 2 of 2
D. Technical Assistance
(a)   procurement Controller Unit
Services of Procurement controller       0.08
Vehtcle and running costs                0.02       0.10
(b)   Preparation of Spare Parts List
Services of Agricultural Engineer        0.03
Vehicle and running costs               0.02       0.05
(c)   Rehabilitation of Agricultural Equipment
Machinery Specialists                    0.18
Vehicle and running costs               0.02       0.20
(d)   Agricultural Sector Task Forces
Consultants and workshops                          0.25
0.60O



- 33 -
Annex V
Page I of 3
SOMALIA
Agricultural Inputa Program
Issues on Agricultural Marketing and
Input Distribution Discussed at Negotiations.
A. Background
1.        As an integral part of the processing of the Agricultural Inputs
Program, Government and IDA have agreed to discuss during negotiations a
number of main principles which would be incorporated within the work of
the agricultural sector task forces.
2.        The Government has explained that the law # 51 prohibiting
private treae in grains has largely been negated by the amendment in
Tanuary 1984 limiting ADC purchase to 5% and subsequently by the decision
of the Central Committee in February 1985 to abolish this 5% requirement.
Henceforth ADC is required to buy grain, if it does so, at market prices.
3.        The Government has also explained that, while decisions have not
yet been taken regarding the ultimate roles of ADC and ENC in marketing and
ONAT and other agencies in input distribution, a number of proposals are
under consideration.
For ADC, three possible roles are being considered:
(a) to maintain a national grain reserve;
(b) to operate a seasonal/regional grain stabilization program;
and,
(c) to distribute agricultural inputs at prevailing
market prices and not undermine the private sector.
4.         Should ADC undertake any of these roles, it would do
so within the context of open and competitive marketing for
cereals and distribution of inputs.
5.         For ENC, government proposals are less advanced, but
various options are under consideration, including the possible
merger of ADC and ENC.
6.         ONAT is in the process of raising its tractor service charges to
a level during 1985 season that would recover a larger proportion of its
costs. Various proposals for developing private input distribution systems
are under consideration but decisions have not yet been taken.



- 34 -
Annex V
Page 2 of 3
B. Specific Issues/Principles
Within the context of the above explanations of recent
developments, the following agreements on main principles would be sought:
1.        Grain marketing:
(a) the role of the public sector would be limited to providing
market information of supply, demand, prices and stocks;
(b) the importation and disposition of concessional supplies of
grain, flour and related products would be valued at world
market (border) prices, except in such cases as famine
refugee relief or other clearly identified emergency
situations; and
tc) the role of the public sector in grain market stabilization
and food security will be further studied through the
Agricultural Sector Task Forces during 1985.
2.        Agricultural inputs:  The role of the public sector would be
limited to:
(a) approval/certification of drugs, chemicals and
seeds;
(b) dealing with major outbreaks of pests and diseases;
(c) prescription drugs and vaccines for animals;
(d) promotion of input use and distribution during the
introduction of new technology until distribution becomes
commercially viable; and
(e) seed production until such time as it becomes commercially
viable and/or in co-operation with a commercial enterprise.
3.        It is understood that, over time, the government will divest
itself of activities in agricultural machinery hire services and other
elements of input distribution, and in the interim, public sector
enterprises and agencies in those areas will;
(a) operate at full cost recovery;
(b) will after 1985 import machinery and other agricultural
inputs at world market (border) prices and at the open
market exchange rate; and
(c) while the public sector is being phased out of input
distribution, it will operate in these areas on a commercial
basis with private sector enterprises.



- 35 -
Annex V
Page 3 of 3
4.        The government agrees that it will promote private sector
development in grain marketing and agricultural input supply through;
v                     (a)  supportive credit and banking institutions (private and
public) to facilitate equipment purchases, provide operating
capital and farmer's credit;
(b)  Reduce government regulations which impede efficient private
sector operations;
(c) develop appropriate systems of weights, measures, quality
control and licensing to ensure competition within the
private sector and safeguard consumer against unfair
practices.
C. Agricultural Sector Task Forces
Within the above agreed upon principles, the possible modes of
achieving these objectives will be explored, analyzed and developed in the
work of the agricultural sector task forces, which the Government has
agreed to undertake jointly with IDA and other donors. This work is to
commence in April 1985 and be completed before the end of 1985. In the
work of these task forces, and particularly that on the 'Economics of
Agriculture," it is agreed that representatives of the Ministry of Finance
and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry will participate fully, and the
members of the Task Force will have open access to people, data and
decision making bodies involved in agricultural marketing and input supply.



Il HRI) 1',413k
-                                                           ;2                                    '.fdllH"111
-), r                PEOPLC'S DLMOCRAtIC
f                   ~~~~~~REPUBLilC OF YEMECN
j          ~~~~DJIBOUTI                                                                                  + ,
{ltoodn or,u-- 
..... . .   B    ciA'Ilu  Luwso
/H~*               Barbara         |                ,>>   l.dt ",                            + iri\dI
ivQ '                                                                     'b.  ,.   kF>[/>         ..f'L  l ;tfstJI 6
-;~       ~ ;,           IN                                ..l.t+ I  \ -..-v    .......   'Bn-Bi
N1 ,,,,, 1...g .i        M, "'a'        .        .         .        .        *
'( l. ... '.'.-..-*                         *      ' -Bwnlur kilo
I I*9'I; .                 ,,AA 
SOMALIA                                                                                         j
REGIONS AND DISTRICTS                                                             /
4.~ ~ ~ ~~~t7
/  ; -;  '         't,.I     I                                            j
| ~ ~~~~~~~ ~ '1+    -                             !; .".  ix 
I    =-='.'.','.'-'','-',,,1.r'  /9L,X--    I
|   !~'                            1.. '> ^t   A           'K 1 .      !      ;
,/tt.: "                                    1-'--   .
_-_        "~  /- --                                                                            -----. r  ---a-
Svio rz-, PiA -                                                                              r
. ,. J . A_ o ,, # t : o. , 4~~~~~ -1.l.,- ,  '
A  '-                                                                                 ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ YA tn   '
,                                   .d         I
L                  Jafar -----                                                                  -..  9leHIfriIA ...  . -       Mw.
cE~~~~~4                                                                                            t-      *    '     ^ s,v
| ~ ~  ~     ~    ~ ~ - \8~                                                              ..-w'..   F -   )PiA      o



