Document of    FILE COPY
The World Bank  rI
FOR OFYICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3268-YU,
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO - UDRUZENA BANKA (PBS)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 15, 1982
This document bas a restuicted ditribuosn and may be used by recipients ody In the pennormuaee of
their official dutie. Its eotents may no otherwise be disclosed without Wowid Dnk   i dht at.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Calendar 1981           February 15, 1982
Currency Unit          Yugoslav Dinar
US$1                   Din. 41.82                    Din. 43.678
Din. 1                 US$   0.024                   US$   0.022
Din. 1,000,000         US$  23,910                   US$  22,895
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
GMP                      -    Gross Material Product
PBS                      -    Privredna Banka Sarajevo - Udruzena Banka
ICB                      -    International Competitive Bidding
LCB                      -    Local Competitive Bidding
SDK                      -    Sluzba Drustvenog Knjigovodstva or Social
Accounting Service
SFRY                     -    Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SRBH                     -    Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina
HEPOK                    -    Herzegovina Agricultural Kombinat
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973. The currency
equivalents effective on February 15, 1982 have been used in this report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Privredna Banka Sarajevo - Udruzena Banka (PBS).
Guarantor:             Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslaiva.
Beneficiaries:         About 7 social sector agricultural processing
enterprises.
Amount:                US$35 million equivalent, in various currencies,
including the capitalized front end fee.
Terms:                 Amortization 15 years, including three years of
grace, with interest at 11.6%. Repayment would be
according to a schedule reflecting the composite
amortization schedules of the sub-loans financed.
Re-Lending Terms:      The proceeds of the loan would be on-lent to the
beneficiaries at 12.85% per annum, which includes
1.25% per annum to cover PBS's cost of
administration.   The foreign exchange risk of the
Bank loan will be borne by the sub-borrowers.
Project Description:  The project's main objectives are:  (a) providing
processing and storage facilities to support primary
production mainly from the individual sector; (b)
facilitating production of fresh fruits, table and
wine grapes, vine rootstocks and grains; and (c)
contributing to institution building by strengthening
the supervision capacity of the borrower. The
project objectives will be achieved by providing
finance for: (a) two flour mills, a poultry
slaughterhouse, a vegetable oil extraction plant, a
pickling plant and a vegetable cold store, including
a freezing plant; (b) in the Popovo Polje region,,
irrigation of about 1200 hectares through 22
kilometers of underground pipeline, two pumping
stations, on-farm irrigation equipment, experimental
tile drainage, buildings, roads and tractors and
other machinery for on-farm use and orchard
establishment material. Direct project benefits are
the incremental output of about 28,000 tons of fresh
fruits, vegetables and cereal crops, and the value
added through processing and storage of wheat,
poultry and vegetables. At full development, about
506 full-time jobs and 55 man-years of seasonal
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
employment would be created. In addition, 238
existing full-time jobs would be restored. Project
implementation difficulties are considered minimal
due to known technology and advanced stage of
procurement. However, there is some risk in the
management of the individual sub-projects and the
overall project. Therefore, the borrower's capacity
to supervise and monitor implementation is being
strengthened.
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign      Total
…--------(us$  0ooo)--------
Agro-industries
Flour mills (2)                              8,848      10,188      19,036
Poultry slaughterhouse                       4,789       3,033       7,817
Vegetable oil extraction plant                6,014      7,007      13,021
Vegetable pickling plant                      1,534      1,945       3,479
Vegetable freezing and cold store plant    4,414         6,041      10,455
Net Incremental Working Capital              2,141         427       2,568
Subtotal Agro-industries                      27,735      28,641      56,376
Popovo Polje
Irrigation system                            1,583       1,653       3,236
On-farm buildings                               239        188         427
On-farm tractors and machinery                  548        645       1,193
Crop establishment                            3,322      1,247       4,596
Subtotal Popovo Polje                           5,693      3,760       9,453
Subtotal Base Investment Cost                  33,428     32,401      65,829
Physical Contingencies                          3,129        912       4,041
Price Contingencies                            10,646      1,169      11,815
Subtotal Contingencies                        13,775       2,081      15,856
TOTAL PROJECT COST 1/                         47,203      34,482      81,686
Front End Fee on Bank Loan                          -        517         517
Total Financing Required                      47,203      34,999      82,202
Exchange Rate Din. 43.678 = US$l
1/ Taxes and duties are estimated at US$3.8 million.



Financing Plan:
Sources                           -----     (US$ Million)--------          % of
Local         Foreign      Total       Financing
IBRD (including capitalized
front end fee
35.0         35.0          43
PBS 1/                           30.9                        30.9          37
Sub-Borrowers 1/                 16.3                        16.3          20
Total Project
Financial Requirements             47.2           35.0         82.2          100
Estimated Disbursements
----------(US$ Million)----------
Bank FY               FY83    FY84   FY85   FY86    FY87
Annual                                5.1     8.7   14.0    6.5        0.7
Cumulative                           5.1    13.8   27.8   34.3    35.0
Estimated Completion Date:  September 30, 1986
Rate of Return: About 27%
Appraisal Report: Report No. 3679-YU, Dated April 15, 1982.
1/ includes approximately financing of US$ 17.0 million from Federal and
Republic Special Funds.






INLERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO-UDRUZENA BANKA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan equivalent to US$35 million to Privredna Banka Sarajevo-Udruzena Banka
(PBS) with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia,
to finance the foreign exchange costs of a Bosnia-Herzegovina Agricultural
Development Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3
years of grace with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A Basic Economic Mission visited Yugoslavia in October and
November 1976. Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism
and the Challenges of Development", 1615a-YU, was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 5, 1978. An economic mission visited
Yugoslavia in November, 1979; its report entitled "Yugoslavia: Export
Performance and Policies", 2972-YU, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on November 5, 1980. In November 1980 an economic mission visited
Yugoslavia and its report entitled "Raising Productivity in Yugoslav
Industry: Some Issues", 3383a-YU was distributed to the Executive Directors
on August 3, 1981. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.       The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government,
enterprises and public institutions plays the leading role in economic and
social development. It accounts for 85% of GDP and employs over half the
total labor force. The private sector consists predominantly of peasant
farms and small enterprises, mainly engaged in handicrafts, construction,
trade, transport and tourism. Decision making at all levels is governed by
the principle of workers' self-management, involving a unique set of
institutions and instruments of economic policy. The current system has
evolved over the years with major changes introduced through the
constitution of 1974. Responsibility for important social and economic
decisions has been shifted from the Federation to the Republics, autonomous
provinces and Communes. Concurrently, the control of workers' collectives
over the socially-owned means of production has been increased by a
1/ Part I of this report is substantially unchanged from Part I of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Sixth Industrial
Credit Project (Report No. P-3188-YU) of April 2, 1982.



- 2 -
restructuring of all economic organizations into legally autonomous Basic
Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs) which are the smallest production
units producing a marketable output.
4.       In addition to this strengthening of workers' participation at the
microeconomic level, the concept of workers' management has been extended
to encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments called social
compacts and self-management agreements have gradually become a part of the
system of macroeconomic management. These measures enable the
participation of all economic agents in the formLulation of macroeconomic
policy while maintaining decentralized responsibility for policy
implementation. Beginning with the last medium-term plan (1976-80) these
instruments have been used to augment more conventional monetary and fiscal
policy measures, particularly in the areas of prices, incomes, and
employment.
5.       The 1974 Constitution also introduced a new framework for economic
and social planning, designed to reconcile decentralized-decision making
with consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks
to establish a national consensus on the major medium-term goals for the
economy. Thereafter, plan formulation is based on participation of all
economic and social units, including government bodies, on a
non-hierarchical basis. An exhaustive interchange of information and
several iterations are required to achieve consistency among the plans of
economic units concurrent with broader social objectives. Once consistency
is achieved, economic units enter into legally binding medium-term
agreements on supply, demand and investment intentions. In case agreements
cannot be reached by the prescribed date, the state is permitted to
intervene, but only on a temporary basis.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.       The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades
has been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1960 and 1980, GDP grew at an average annual rate
of about 6% in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high
throughout the period, above 30% in recent years. As population growth has
been only 1% per annum, real per capita income has more than doubled during
the period. Per capita GNP in 1980 is estimated to be US$2,620 at 1980
market prices. 1/ The social sector, in particuLar industry, has been the
driving force of the economy between 1960 and 1980 with the share of
industry in GDP increasing to around 45% while agriculture has declined to
about 12%. The past two decades have also been associated with the growing
integration of Yugoslavia into the world economy., Between 1960 and 1980
merchandise exports and imports grew by around 6%' and 8% per annum in real
terms, respectively; much of this was with markets in the convertible
currency areas.
1/ According to World Bank Atlas methodology.



- 3 -
7.       While overall growth performance has been impressive, large
regional income disparities persist. The Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia and Montenegro, each with two-thirds of the national average per
capita income, and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo, with one-third, are
officially designated as less developed regions (LDR). The difference
between the most developed region, Slovenia, and the least developed,
Kosovo, is 6 to 1. In addition to these interregional disparities there
are large intraregional disparities with differences in per capita income
between communes as high as 10 to 1 . These disparities reflect several
factors, notably the greater incidence of low productivity agriculture in
the LDR and their higher dependency ratios and population growth rates.
Since 1971 sizeable concessionary credits (with about 50% grant element),
equal to about 10% of the social product of the LDR, have been transferred
to the LDR through the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the
Less Developed Regions, which is financed through a tax on all social
sector enterprises in the economy.
8.       Linked to the issue of regional income disparities has been the
problem of providing adequate employment opportunities in the modern
sector. Since 1954 employment in the modern social. sector has increased by
around 4% per annum, facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural
sector. Despite this impressive record, substantial productivity and
income differentials remain between the modern (mainly social) and the
traditional (private or individual agricultural) sectors. The persistence
of these differentials has resulted in high demand for modern sector
employment on the part of the rural labor force. The increase of the
working age population caused by relatively high population growth in the
LDR has further added to employment demand. Large numbers of Yugoslavs
have sought temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak
in 1973 Yugoslavia had about 1.1 million external migrants. However, since
1973, with changes in policy and the slower growth in the host countries,
this trend has been reversed, accentuating domestic imbalances and placing
added pressure on the social sector to create new work places.
Unemployment rates have risen rapidly from about 7% in 1971 to over 12% in
1980. 1/ The incidence of unemployment is highly regionalized, because
population and labor force growth rates, as well as the proportion of
agricultural employment, are all much higher in the LDR. In 1980
unemployment rates ranged from 28.0% in Kosovo to 1.4% in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
v            9.       Yugoslavia was successful in maintaining a relatively high growth
rate over much of its recent (1976-80) economic plan. Over the first four
years of the plan GDP growth exceeded 5% per year. The pattern of growth
1/ These rates are not strictly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some
currently employed) to social sector labor force. The ratio of
registered job seekers to total resident labor force would have been
about 9.0% in 1980.



was, however, markedly cyclical and heavily influenced by policy responses
to balance of payments difficulties and to inflation. Following slow
growth in 1976, macroeconomic policy became more expansionary in 1977,
which resulted in three years of rapid growth. This revival at a time when
the world economy was relatively sluggish put pressure on Yugoslavia's
balance of payments. These strains were considerably worsened by special
developments in 1979 including sharp increases in the price of imported
oil, poor agricultural conditions and an earthquake in Montenegro.  As a
consequence the deficit in the current account oE the balance of payments
reached $3.7 billion in 1979, or about 5.4% of GDP. Faster growth and
renewed international inflation also led to significant worsening in
domestic inflation. In response to these developments, the tone of
macro-policy became sharply contractionary since late 1979, and economic
management has been dominated by the goal of improving the balance of
payments.  As a result of the determined application of a stabilization
program, the current account deficit was reduced to less than $0.8 billion
in 1981 compared with a target level for that year of $1.8 billion largely
reflecting an improvement in the trade deficit. The elements of the
program (which is being supported by a standby arrangement with the IMF)
included a cumulative 57% devaluation of the dinar between June 1980 and
December 1981, tight monetary and fiscal policy, reductions in real
personal incomes and cutbacks in investment, particularly for non-economic
purposes. As a result of these measures output growth was reduced from
previous years, and gross domestic product is estimated to have grown by
about 2% both in 1980 and 1981.
10.      The main source of Yugoslavia's economic growth in the 1976-80
plan was industry. While industrial production rose by only 4% in 1980,
this followed growth of almost 7% per year in the preceding four years.
The plan placed particular emphasis on production of energy, raw materials
and intermediate goods to increase import substitution. These priority
sectors performed well during the first three years of the plan although
production fell slightly short of planned targets, while non-priority
sectors, particularly consumer goods, grew at a rate faster than
projected. Climatic factors have resulted in marked annual fluctuations in
agricultural output, which rose between 1976 and 1980 at an average annual
rate of 1.6% (compared to a target of 4%).
11.      Fixed investment grew at an average rate of almost 9.5% between
1976 and 1979, exceeding the 8.0% plan target. This investment drive was
successful in raising the overall share of the priority sectors in total
investment; bowever, within the industrial sector investment in
non-priority branches grew at a faster rate than planned. The share of
gross fixed investment in GDP rose from 28% in 1975 to almost 32% in 1979.
In 1980 and 1981, real investment is estimated to have declined by 1.6% and
4.5% respectively, as a result of increasing restrictions placed on
investment activity, particularly in non-priority fields. Overall social
sector employment growth in the plan has been rapid, at about 4% per annum
(compared to a plan target of 3.5%) and has been even faster in the LDR
where the bulk of the structural unemployment is located. Despite these
achievements, the combined impact of net immigration, demographic factors
and the contraction in the rural labor force increased the ratio of
job-seekers to social sector labor force.



- 5 -
12.      Inflation rates have varied widely over the course of the 1976-80
plan period. Stabilization measures introduced in 1975 and 1976 reduced
the inflation rate (as measured by the retail price index) from 26% in 1975
to 9% in 1976. The subsequent revival in economic activity was accompanied
by a resurgence of inflation. In both 1977 and 1978 inflation was 13%; in
1979, in part due to increases in indirect taxes and fuel prices it
increased to 22%. The sharp reduction in economic activity in 1980
affected the inflation rate much less than had been hoped, and the rate of
inflation was 30%, in contrast to the 17% that had been projected. Part of
the deterioration in price performance can be attributed to the higher
prices of imported goods, resulting from botb a higher rate of
international inflation and the effects of the devaluation of the dinar.
There has also been some dismantling of domestic price controls in order to
promote efficient resource allocation in manufacturing as well as price
increases administered to stimulate agricultural production and to
rationalize energy use. As a result of effective incomes policies, wage
pressures were muted in 1980, with real personal income in the social
sector falling by 7%. Although real personal incomes declined by a further
6% in 1981, prices increased by 39%. Most of the inflationary pressure
occurred in the first six months of 1981, however, when the retail price
index increased at an annual rate of 56%. Stricter price controls were
introduced during June 1981. These together with the austere stabilization
program, bad a significant effect on the rate of inflation and it is
estimated that the rate of inflation slowed to about 25% during the last
half of the year. The Government has announced its intention to curb
inflation further with an official target of 15% for 1982.
13.      As noted above, Yugoslavia's balance of payments has remained an
issue of concern to policymakers throughout the plan. The plan itself
proposed substantial import substitution while maintaining an export growth
rate of 8%. While import growth fluctuated widely between 1976 and 1980
overall it remained below the 4.5% annual rate targeted in the plan,
primarily by the imposition of deep import cuts in 1976 and 1980. Export
performance however was disappointing; despite a recovery in 1980, when
merchandise exports grew by an estimated 11%, export growth over the plan
was about 4.6% per year instead of the 8% targeted. The consequences of
this export shortfall were exacerbated by the deterioration in the terms of
trade and other special factors referred to earlier. Even though workers'
remittances were more buoyant than had been anticipated, the cumulative
current account deficit over the plan period was 60% higher than had been
planned. The Government's program to put the balance of payments on a more
secure footing was supported by a two-year standby arrangement concluded
with the IMF in June 1980 in the amount of SDR 339 million per year. This
standby was replaced in January 1981 by a three year program for a total
amount of SDR 1662 million. The Government's annual plan for 1982
continues to stress stabilization of the economy in pursuit of balance of
payments adjustment. The current account deficit for 1982 is targeted at
$0.5 billion; this is to be achieved through export growth of 8.5% coupled
with a 0.5% limit on the growth of overall import volume, and a reduction
in imports of capital goods. Social product is expected to grow by 2.5%;
this slow growth will be reconciled with the export target by further cuts
in fixed capital formation.



-6-
Medium Term Prospects
14.      The Federal Five Year Plan for 1981-85 was adopted in March 1981,
but in view of the external constraints on the economic growth and the
authorities' decision to limit its external borrowing the plan has been
substantially revised. Although the detailed targets for production and
investment have still to be finalized, the main strategic elements of the
plan have already been enunciated. The revised plan projects continued
slow growth in social product and even slower growth in domestic
expenditure to allow resources to be released for exports; this strategy
also implies continued reductions in the rate of fixed capital formation.
As before, the plan projects simultaneous import substitution and export
promotion. It aims to achieve a current account surplus before the end of
the plan period. The priorities stressed are the development of domestic
energy sources and raw materials, production of basic metals, basic
chemicals and capital goods. The plan also stresses agricultural
development in order to reduce food imports and to expand food exports.
15.      Slower growth will make it more difficult for the social sector to
generate additional emiployment at the pace of the past plan while the
demand for new work places will remain high. Given these difficulties,
more emphasis is being laid on the development of labor intensive
activities including small-scale enterprises.
16.      Finally, the reduction of regional disparities remains a major
objective of Yugoslavia's economic planning. Financial transfers between
Republics will play an important role in this process, and the transfer
mechanisms for the plan lay particular stress on encouraging social sector
enterprises in the more developed regions (MDR) to make direct investments
in the LDR. As experience is gained, these joint ventures could make a
significant contribution to the overall efficiency of production within the
LDR by facilitating the transfer of technological and managerial know-how
within Yugoslavia. Regional disparities, however, are expected to remain
significant over the medium-term.
Creditworthiness
17.      Gross medium- and long-term capital inflows declined from $4.2
billion in 1980 to an estimated $3.2 billion in 1981. Total medium- and
long-term debt, outstanding and disbursed, is estimated at about $16.6
billion at the end of 1981 while short-term debt at the end of September
1981 stood at about $1.8 billion. Total foreign exchange reserves at the
end of 1981 stood at $3.4 billion. There was some restocking of official
foreign exchange reserves in 1981, and at the end of the year these
amounted to $1.6 billion, or roughly one month of imports of goods and
services from the convertible currency area. It is expected that the
resources provided by the IMF will permit Yugoslavia to retire some of its
short-term debt, and to build up official foreign exchange reserves further
in 1982.
18.      About three-quarters of the debt contracted by Yugoslavia in
recent years has been provided in convertible currencies through commercial



sources. The bulk of this commercial credit has been in the form of
suppliers' credits. Nevertheless, financial credits obtained in the
eurocurrency market have become increasingly important for financing the
economy's foreign exchange requirements. The World Bank is the principal
source of non-commercial long-term credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will
continue to require a substantial inflow of foreign lending if it is to
achieve its medium-term objectives. Taking account of workers' remittances
the debt service ratio on aggregate medium- and long-term debt averaged 15%
between 1976 and 1980, while the debt service ratio in convertible
currencies averaged 18% over the same period. The aggregate debt service
ratio is not expected to increase substantially during the next medium term
plan (1981-85). Given Yugoslavia's past debt service record, pragmatism
and its demonstrated capacity to implement firm stabilization policies when
these are called for, it remains creditworthy for a substantial level of
Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
19.      The proposed project would be the 72nd operation by the Bank in
Yugoslavia, which would increase total World Bank lending to Yugoslavia to
$3,154.7 million. Of this, approximately 40% ($1,248.4 million) has been
for 23 operations in the transportation sector -- 12 for highways, 7 for
railways, and one each for a natural gas pipeline and an oil pipeline, and
two for a port project. Historically, Bank lending has concentrated on
infrastructure including, in addition to the transportation loans, five
power loans, one telecommunications loan, three water supply and sewerage
and three multipurpose loans (two of which include substantial irrigation
components). In recent years, Bank lending has increasingly focussed on
the agriculture sector for which 13 operations (including the current
project) totalling $766 million (about 24% of the total) have been made.
Twenty loans amounting to $410 million (about 13% of the total) have also
been made for industry. Two loans have been made for tourism and the first
Bank loan for air pollution control was approved in 1976.
20.      Yugoslavia's disbursement performance (disbursements as a
percentage of total commitments) deteriorated somewhat in 1981 largely due
to a shortage of local funds arising from financial constraints. Following
an implementation review of the whole loan portfolio with Borrowers in the
Fall of 1981, performance has markedly improved in the first quarter of
1982. Yugoslavia's performance now, as traditionally, compares most
favorably with Bank-wide and regional averages and with most other
countries of a similar per capita income.  Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of September 30, 1981, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.      The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its
lending to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are
1/ Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from Part II of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Sixth Industrial
Credit Project (Report No. 3188-YU) of April 2, 1982.



- 8 -
to: (i) to increase exports and improve the efficiency of import
substitution; (ii) increase the efficiency of domestic investment with a
view to increasing production with the more limited investment resources
available; (iii) improve access to capital markets; and (iv) reduce
unemployment, particularly in the LDR. It is obvious that not every Bank
operation can address all these objectives nor be entirely oriented towards
the LDR, but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia has
increasingly been towards the development of the LDR and the agricultural
sector in particular. Reinforcing this strategy are the economic surveys
of the four LDR undertaken by the Bank and intensified Bank assistance in
project formulation and ongoing economic and sector analysis.
22.      The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDR is fully in accord with the Federal Government's policies embodied in
the 1981-85 Development Plan. As in the last plan period, the Federal
Government agreed with its constituents on the level of domestic resources
to be channeled to the LDR through the Federal Fund mechanism (para. 7) as
well as the distribution of external resources including Bank lending. The
distribution of Bank lending was determined broadly on the basis of income
levels and population size of particular regions. Over the past five
years, almost two-thirds of Bank lending has been to the LDR through
operations for transportation, power, agricultural development and
industrial credit. In the next few years significant Bank lending to the
LDR through similar operations is expected to continue.
23.      Decentralized management, the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in
formulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the
1974 Constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been
to revamp the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for
coordination. Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system (para. 5), the
process of evolving acceptable solutions to problems is cumbersome. The
Bank has therefore put increased emphasis on having an impact on the
shaping of the policy framework and fostering coordination, particularly in
the transport and energy sectors where significant progress has been
achieved. Through its future operations the Bank will seek to consolidate
past successes in institutional reform. Further development of the project
preparation, appraisal and supervisory capabilities of the regional banks
through which a large amount of Bank funds are channelled will remain a
major objective. In transport, intermodal coordination will be sought
through the implementation of the results of the rail costs and road user
studies undertaken under the Eighth Highway Project (Loan No. 1377-YU
approved March 15, 1977). The Bank will concentrate its lending operations
in areas where its incremental institutional and/(or policy coordination
impact has most potential.
24.      A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank has
helped to attract additional sources of credit through co-financing



- 9 -
arrangements and forge banking relationships for Yugoslavia. The Bank,
however, will remain the major source of long-term external capital for the
foreseeable future. Its significant level of operations in Yugoslavia is
regarded by foreign financiers as evidence of confidence in Yugoslavia's
economic performance, policies and prospects. In its future lending to
Yugoslavia, the Bank intends to put increased emphasis on co-financing.
However, in view of the present commercial market constraints that
Yugoslavia is facing and because of the country's complex banking and
foreign exchange allocation system, the extent and form of co-financing
related to Bank projects will have to be handled flexibly.
25.      Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank in 1981 amounted to about 9.0% of
its total debt outstanding and disbursed and this ratio is expected to
remain fairly stable. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt
service was 5.4% in 1981 and is projected to be about 6% by 1986.
26.      IFC started its involvement in Yugoslavia in 1970; since then, IFC
has made 19 investments in the country and, as of January 31, 1982, IFC's
portfolio amounted to $317 million gross and $154 million net of
participation and repayments. The basic objectives of IFC in Yugoslavia
are to: (a) assist priority subsectors in industry and natural resources
development; (b) encourage foreign investment on a joint venture basis; (c)
foster technological transfers; and (d) mobilize other financial resources
in addition to IFC's own funds. Also, IFC continues to give special,
although not exclusive, emphasis to the less developed regions of the
country.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Agriculture in Yugoslavia 1/
27.      The agriculture sector, which occupied about 30% of the population
and accounted for about 14% of the GMP 2/ in 1980, has grown at an average
annual rate of about 2.5% during the period 1977-80. Agricultural
development in Yugoslavia is of crucial importance to (a) meet an estimated
4% annual increase in domestic consumption requirements; (b) provide for
increases in exports and reductions in imports; (c) meet the raw material
requirements for expanding the agro-industries subsector; and (d) achieve
employment and income objectives primarily through development of the
individual sector. For these reasons, Yugoslavia's 1981-85 Five Year Plan
stresses agricultural development as one of the country's highest
priorities.
1/ Paragraphs 27-34 are substantially unchanged from Part III of the Report
and Recommendation of the President for the Macedonia III Agricultural
Development Project (Report No. P-3100-YU) of June 23, 1981
2/ GMP (Gross Material Product) corresponds to GDP (Gross Domestic
Product) less output of certain services, such as public
administration, defense, education, health and social insurance.



- 10 -
28.      The country has three distinct climatic zones and a predominantly
mountainous terrain. Agricultural activities are consequently many and
varied. About 56% of the national territory is recorded as agricultural
land, 28% of which is arable and the rest mainly pasture. The soil is better
than in other southern European countries, especially in the fertile plain in
the northeast which includes Vojvodina and which, while containing only
one-sixth of the country's total area, includes nearly one-third of the
arable land and produces more than half of the country's wheat and maize
and three-quarters of the sugar beet. In the hilly areas covering much of
Serbia, Slovenia and Bosnia, a mixed farm pattern prevails. The mountain-
ous regions to the west and south contain extensive upland pastures suited to
livestock rearing. Along the Adriatic coast, in the Mediterranean climatic
zone, vineyards and olive and citrus groves flourish while further south, in
Macedonia, crops such as tobacco, cotton and rice are grown.
29.      An important feature of Yugoslav agriculture is the co-existence of
social and individual farm sectors.  The social sector, which grew out of
postwar collectivization, is made up of a number of institutions including
kombinats (large scale integrated farms), cooperatives and research
institutions; this sector accounts for about 28% of total agricultural
output, controls 16% of agricultural land, and employs about 5% of
agricultural manpower. In contrast, the individual farm sector, which
consists essentially of privately held family plots not exceeding 10 ha of
arable land, controls 84% of the cultivated land and employs about 90% of
agricultural manpower and has been relatively negLected in terms of provision
of basic infrastructure, financing and technology. For the most part, these
two sectors are intricately linked through marketing and other complementary
activities.
30.      Yugoslavia's principal strategy in agricultural development has been
to emphasize growth of the social sector as the principal means to achieve
large-scale production, marketing and self-sufficiency in food. As a result,
agricultural production in the social sector grew at an average annual rate
of 5.2% during 1969-79. In contrast, during the same period agricultural
production in the individual sector grew at an annual rate of 1.5%. While
the objective of self-sufficiency in food was substantially achieved through
this emphasis on social sector growth, there remain large income
differentials, with average incomes among individual farmers ranging from
less than a third to less than half of those of workers in the social
sector. There has been a rapid depletion of the labor force in the
agriculture sector which has contributed to the rural-urban migration and
increased overall unemployment in the economy.
31.      The strategy of Yugoslavia's 1981-85 Agricultural Development Plan
is based on continued development of social sector holdings as the main
vehicle for growth, and increased organization of the individual farm sector
into cooperatives or associations with social sector enterprises. The Plan
stresses the importance of agricultural development and outlines measures to
develop the individual sector as a means of addressing the problems of
unemployment, rural poverty, regional income disparities and low
productivity. The Plan aims at growth in agricultural production of 4.5% per
annum, based on annual growth in agricultural production in the social sector



- 11 -
of 6% and in the individual sector of 4%. Agro-industries will be developed
to meet consumer demand. The less rapid growth projected for the individual
sector reflects its limited absorptive capacity and the lack of appropriate
inputs and markets available to the large number of individual farmers. On
the basis of past performance these growth rates seem optimistic, although
they represent somewhat more realistic targets than in the previous plan
period.
32.      Responsibility for formulating agricultural policy and plans rests
with the six Republics and two Autonomous Provinces, all of which are
represented on the Federal Committee for Agriculture, the President of which
is a member of the Federal Executive Council with the rank of Minister. Due
to decentralized decision-making, all functions associated with policy and
plan implementation rest with autonomous self-governing organizations, such
as agrokombinats and cooperatives.
33.      The prospects for the development of agriculture in the 1980s in
Yugoslavia are closely tied to the fact that Yugoslavia is in the process of
becoming a predominantly urbanized industrialized society. While in the past
the rate and pattern of agricultural growth has been adequate to meet the
domestic demand, a major reorientation of agricultural development is
necessary because Yugoslavia has reached a consumption level where most of
the agricultural production has to be processed, stored, and transported to
urban markets. For this purpose reconstruction and modernization of existing
agro-industies is essential. There is a need to improve the overall policy
framework in Yugoslavia for agro-industry development. A growing awareness
of the need to balance agricultural production and processing capacity exists
at the Federal level and there is recognition of the need to improve the
overall policy framework in Yugoslavia for agro-industry development,
including improved analysis of both interregional and export markets and
maintenance of pricing policies in the agriculture sector to further these
objectives. Therefore, work has been underway in connection with the
preparation of the new Agricultural Development Plan (1981-85) to develop a
long-term agro-industry development policy for Yugoslavia. The agro-industry
study being conducted under the Third Agriculture Credit Project (Loan No.
1801-YU) would also help in this effort.
34.      The challenge in the 1980s for Yugoslav agriculture is to increase
production in and incomes of the large individual sector and increase
productivity in the social sector, while at the same time expand the export
base of agricultural and processed food products. This challenge is being
recognized by the Government, particularly in regard to the creation of an
industrial complex capable of meeting the changing consumer demand and export
requirements. The expansion of the cooperation among individual farmers and
between individual farmers and social sector organizations continues to be a
central feature of government agricultural development strategy, but
additional means to accelerate the development of the individual sector need
to be explored. To this end, as part of its sector operations, the Bank is
discussing the possibility of conducting an agricultural sector survey in the
near future.



- 12 -
Agt-ulture wL Bosnia-Herzegovina
35.      The Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina (SRBH) is located in
the south central part of Yugoslavia adjoining the Adriatic Sea with about 20
km of coast line. Triangular in shape, it comprises 51,129 square kilometers
or 20% of the total area of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(SFRY). It has a population of 4.2 million or 19%' of the total population of
SFRY. Bosnia-Herzegovina is one of Yugoslavia's least developed regions;
1980 per capita income was $1,757, 66% of the national average.  Agriculture
constitutes 15% of the GMP of SRBH and absorbs 39%' of the active working
population.
36.      In SRBH, agriculture's share of the total output is increasing
marginally. This is interesting in view of agriculture's relatively small
share of total investment, which peaked in SRBH at 7.7% in 1973 and declined
to around 6% thereafter. Agriculture's shares in population and exports are,
as to be expected, declining in both SFRY and SRBF[ though still significant.
During 1968-79, agricultural production in SRBH grew at a rate of 3.1%, but
per capita food supply grew at a slower rate due to population growth of
almost 1% annually.
37.      The shares of agricultural and arable areas in SRBH are 50% and 21%
respectively of the total area. These are somewhat lower than the country's
average due to SRBH's mountainous terrain. Agriculture in SRBH is
predominantly privately owned, about 95% of the arable land belonging to
500,000 individual farmers. The individual sector exists side by side with
social sector agro-kombinats, which hold about 5% of the arable land. The
per ha annual investment in the social sector is much higher than that of the
individual sector; in 1977, 44% of investment in agriculture was in the
social sector and 56% in the individual sector.
38.      Agro-industries in general and food processing in particular have
been the focus of investments in SRBH, as in the rest of the country. In
1978, estimated investment in food processing totalled Din. 4.6 billion or
2.7% of SRBH's total investment expenditures. Centralized pricing policies,
coupled with decentralized investment decision-making in agro-industries and
the general flow of investments in the past decade in the country as a whole
in this sector, has created problems of over- capacity in the industry. The
current utilization levels in the country range from 25% for frozen fruit
processing to 70% for fresh milk processing. The utilization figures for
SRBH for food processing industries of interest to the project for the year
1979 are as follows: flour mill (85%); dairy products (75%); vegetable oil
(98%); and meat - slaughtering and processing (70%). Regulation of
investment in agro-industries is sought to be made by the overall plan but
since investment decisions are decentralized to republic and enterprise
levels, which often take a narrower view of supply and marketing
possibilities, excess capacities are created. In light of potential
over-capacity, the Bank has been emphasizing the need to concentrate on
reconstruction and modernization rather than on new construction. The
present project incorporates this strategy.



- 13 -
39.      Ti  -ricultural Development Plan (1981-1985) of SRBH provides for a
production growth rate of 4%, of which 8% is planned for the social sector
and 3.5% for the individual sector. No details of investment targets are yet
available, but emphasis appears to be on improving the productivity of
agricultural land and increasing the arable area, particularly in the social
sector. Stress is also laid on increasing the production of beef and dairy
products through increased forage production and improved use of pastures.
In both cases it is intended to expand and intensify cooperative arrangements
between the social and individual sectors to assist in achieving the targeted
growth. Agro-industry capacity is also to be expanded to provide processing
outlets for this increased production. The development strategy also begins
to address problems in some of SRBH's least developed areas.
40.      Popovo Polje, as a karst valley near the Adriatic, flooded in winter
and drought prone in summer, is representative of many similar agricultural
poverty pockets along the coastal area of SFRY. As part of its social
commitment, Government policy in both SFRY and SRBH is to endeavor to
alleviate the situation while at the same time expanding the area of arable
land. Within the Herzegovina area these valleys are the only agricultural
resource base present. The development of this area under the proposed
project should serve as a guide to the future development of other such
karstic valleys in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia and Montenegro.
Bank Involvement in Yugoslavia's A&riculture Sector
41.      The proposed Bosnia-Herzegovina Agricultural Development Project
would represent the thirteenth Bank loan for agriculture and agro-industries
in Yugoslavia. Since 1971, when it first became involved in the agriculture
sector in Yugoslavia, the Bank has financed three nationwide agricultural
credit projects (Loan Nos. 1129-YU, 1477-YU and 1801-YU), seven agriculture
and agro-industry projects in Macedonia, Montenegro, Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Serbia and Kosovo (Loan Nos. 894-YU, 1370-YU, 1371-YU, 1621-YU, 1951-YU,
1993-YU and 2039-YU), one drainage project in Croatia (Loan No. 1756-YU), and
a large-scale irrigation project in Macedonia (Loan No. 1616-YU). In
addition, financing was provided for two multipurpose projects in Kosovo with
significant irrigation components (Loan Nos. 777-YU and 1360-YU). The Bank's
involvement in these projects has been both in the social and individual
sectors. As summarized in Annex II, these projects are generally proceeding
satisfactorily. Two projects have recently been completed, Macedonia
Agro-industries I (894-YU) for which a completion report is under
preparation, and Agricultural Credit I (1129-YU); no project completion or
performance audit reports have yet been issued.
42.      Within the framework of Yugoslavia's Agricultural Development Plan
and the Government's objectives, substantial Bank lending for agriculture is
an essential element of the Bank's strategy to support the less developed
regions, improve income distribution, alleviate pockets of rural poverty,
increase rural productivity and productive employment opportunities and
contribute to a reduction of imports and an expansion of exports. The Bank
emphasizes the development of primary agricultural production (irrigated and
rainfed) in the individual sector and agricultural processing facilities in
the social sector to provide the outlet for this production. In recent years



- 14 -
both Yugoslavia and the Bank have increased their commitment to the
development of the individual sector. The mix between involvement in the
social and individual agricuLtural sectors in Bank projects in Yugoslavia is
determined in each particular case, taking into account factors, such as the
Federal and Republican/Provincial Governments' own efforts for the social and
individual farm sectors and the relative investment requirements in each
Republic or Province needed to bring about a balanced agricultural
development between primary production and processing capability.
Performance Under Previous World Bank Agricultural Projects in
Bosnia-Herzegovina
43.      The borrower under this project, Privredna Banka Sarajevo-Udruzena
Banka (PBS), has been one of the participating banks in all three
Agricultural Credit Projects, four Industrial Credit Projects (Loans Nos.
1013-YU, 1277-YU, 1612-YU and 1910-YU), and the borrower for the
Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-industries Project (Loan No. 1621-YU).
The First Agricultural Credit project has been completed, as has the
Bosnia-Herzegovina Industrial Credit Project. Implementation of the two
other Agricultural Credit projects is progressing, but behind schedule. As
of December 1981, 100% of the Bank loan for the second Agricultural Credit
Project had been committed but only 45% had been disbursed. For on-lending
through PBS, these figures are 100% and 25%, which is the lowest disbursement
percentage of any participating bank. Overall commitment levels under the
Third Agricultural Credit Project are closer to the original appraisal
schedule but, due to the the lag in the Second Agricultural Credit Project,
disbursements as of December 1981 are only 8% of the loan amount vs. a 14.1%
appraisal estimate. However, under this credit performance of PBS has been
better than most other participating banks, with commitment of about 95% and
disbursements of 7%. The problems are due in large part to the general
inflationary situation, deteriorating balance of payments and resultant
corrective measures. The Yugoslav authorities are taking these
implementation problems seriously and have taken some specific measures
(e.g., removing restrictions on Bank project-related imports and increase
availability of local credits) to reduce the effects of the overall economic
corrective measures on implementation of Bank financed projects. The
Bosanska-Krajina Project (Loan No. 1621-YU) is two years behind schedule,
which can be attributed to domestic resource constraints fueled by an
unprecedented high rate of inflation and organizational shortcomings in PBS.
The management has taken important measures to supervise sub-projects,
monitor project implementation and liaise with AIPK (Agroindustrijske i
Prometni Kombinat Bosanska Krajina), the executing agency, more closely.
These steps are contributing towards faster project implementation and
resolving specific project problems.
44.      Under this project, and the Sixth Industrial Credit Project
scheduled for presentation to the Executive Directors on April 27, 1982, for
which PBS is a borrower, agreements have been reached to strengthen PBS's
project supervision and coordination capacity by expanding the staff in its
supervision unit for Bank-financed projects, and engaging services of
consultants where necessary.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.      The proposed project consists of two separate components:
agro-industries, consisting of a number of different food processing plants
in Bosnia, and Popovo Polje development, a small experimental investment in
irrigation, drainage and on-farm production in a karst valley in
Herzegovina. Agro-industries comprise about 80% of the estimated investment
cost. The project was prepared by PBS and assisted by Bank preparation
missions in October 1980, and February 1981. The project was appraised in
May-June, 1981. Negotiations were held on March 8-11, 1982 in Washington.
The Yugoslav delegation was led by Mr. Djordje Peklic, member of the
Executive Council of the Assembly of the Socialist Republic of
Bosnia-Herzegovina. Annex III summarizes key events leading to the
presentation to the Executive Directors and special conditions provided for
the Loan Agreement.
46.      The proposed loan and project are summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary at the beginning of this report and described in detail in the report
"Staff Appraisal Report on the Bosnia-Herzegovina Agricultural Development
Project," Report No. 3679-YU, dated April 15, 1982. This report is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
47.      The project's main objectives are:
(a) Agro-industries Component - provision of processing and storage
facilities for increased primary production resulting from
Bank-financed agricultural projects;
(b) Popovo Polje Component - Provision of irrigation and on-farm
tacilities to produce commercially marketable fruits, grapes
and grains and to serve as a possible model for future
development of similar karst valleys in the region.
48.            The project would consist of:
Agro-industries;
- two wheat flour mills, to replace existing mills, and having a
combined annual processing capacity of about 73,000 tons of
wheat;
- a poultry slaughterhouse for processing about ten million
broilers annually;
- a vegetable oil extraction plant to replace an existing plant
with a higher capacity plant.    It will process about 77,000
tons of oil seeds annually and will include a 50,000 ton seed
storage silo;
- a vegetable processing and storage complex including:
- a vegetable pickling plant for preserving about 2,700 tons of
vegetables annually;



- 16 -
- a vegetable cold store with an effective storage area of about
7,200 m3, including a freezing plant with an annual intake of
about 5,300 tons of vegetables.
Popovo Polje:
- underground pressure pipeline of asbestos cement pipes
totalling about 22 km in length to serve an area of about
1,200 ha;
- two pumping stations with capacities of about 0.3 and 0.8
m3/sec and transmission lines and transformers to supply
power to the stations;
- on-farm irrigation equipment;
- on-farm roads and facilities for irrigation O&M;
- on-farm buildings, tractors, machinery and equipment;
- fruit tree and vineyard rootstocks and trellising material;
- an experimental tile drainage plot of about 10 ha.
49.      The agro-industries subprojects are among the priority investments
of SRBH. The project emphasizes reconstruction and modernization of existing
agro-industrial capacity with replacement considered only when the efficient
life of a plant has passed. New construction is only included where the
incremental raw material input is either already present or the necessary
on-farm investment is being undertaken. This is in line with the Bank's
investment policy for Yugoslavia as a whole, which is to take a nationwide
perspective on investment decision-making. The investments in
agro-industries would be undertaken by social sector kombinats which are
large concerns with technical capability. The investments in the social
sector are both necessary and complementary to efforts being made at the farm
level, as they provide marketing channels for farm production. In Popovo
Polje, the investments would irrigate about 1,200 ha, of which about 900 ha
is in the social sector and the remainder farmed by individuals. Production
in the social sector will emphasize apples, seedless table grapes, vine
rootstocks and maize while the individual sector will produce wine grapes,
maize and some vegetables.
Project Organization and Implementation
50.      Institutional Arrangements.  PBS would be the borrower of the
proposed loan. PBS would undertake to provide all necessary local finance
principally from Federal and Republican investment funds as well as its own
resources. The individual subprojects would be implemented by the respective
investors. Inputs and marketing facilities for the individual sector within
the Popovo Polje Irrigation system would be supplied by the Popovo Polje Work
Organization, which would be the sub-borrower from PBS.



- 17 -
51.      PBS, ain associated bank, is the major bank in SRBH which, together
with its constituent basic banks (formerly branch offices), plays a prominent
role in mobilizing investment resources in SRBH and obtaining foreign
credits. Banks in Yugoslavia operate not to maximize profits but to earn an
income adequate to cover expenses and to make annual contributions to various
reserve funds. In this context, PBS has maintained an adequate level of net
income, and has been increasing its asset base. The continuing devaluation
of the dinar has affected PBS's performance, forcing increased provisions for
doubtful loans. The long-term debt/equity position of PBS worsened during
1980 to 15.5 to 1 as of December 31, 1980. The majority of the long-term
debts are Federal and Republic funds (42%) which, while treated as debt, have
more the character of managed funds. If these funds are excluded from the
calculations, the ratio is reduced to 8.6 to 1. The primary sources of funds
for PBS are long-term borrowings (32% of end 1980 assets) and demand deposits
(26%). PBS has a long-standing relationship with the Bank. Though project
implementation has been somewhat less than fully satisfactory, PBS has shown
institutional improvements (e.g., strengthening of its supervision unit for
Bank financed projects) recently. This trend is expected to continue. Under
the current project, PBS has agreed to provide technical supervision of the
sub-projects through four man months of staff time per year or by engaging
suitable consultants. PBS's overall financial situation is generally
satisfactory and it continues to be creditworthy.
52.      Since all subprojects have been fully appraised by the Bank, no
further appraisal would be required of PBS unless there are changes in
subprojects. Should any such change be proposed, then PBS would be required
to carry out and send to the Bank for its approval a full technical and
economic subproject appraisal report in accordance with a format agreed upon
at negotiations prior to any reimbursement for the subproject concerned.
Assurances on this lending procedure were obtained during negotiations (Loan
Agreement, paras. A(2) and A(3) of Schedule 5).
53.      Implementation Procedures.  It is expected that all agro-industry
subprojects will begin to operate in year two of the project (1982-83).
Allowance has been made for possible delays in agro-industries civil works as
a result of the 1984 Winter Olympics, but efforts will be made to interest
qualified construction firms from other parts of Yugoslavia to minimize
delays. In order to speed the procurement and design phase and to avoid cost
overruns, tendering and bid evaluation were completed prior to negotiations
for processing equipment for all agro-industry subprojects. This will permit
contracts to be negotiated and signed shortly and thus complete civil works
design by September 1982 so that construction can begin thereafter. The
Popovo Polje irrigation system is completely designed. Construction would be
restricted to summer periods and is expected to be completed in four years.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
54.      PBS would monitor project implementation through field supervision
of all subprojects and through appropriate periodic evaluation of key



- 18 -
indicators such as establishment of qualified subproject implementation
teams, procurement progress and physical and financial implementation. In
order to inform the Bank of overall progress in project implementation in
relation to targets, objectives and schedules established for each
investment, PBS would submit semi-annual reports to the Bank within 45 days
of the close of each six-month period (Loan Agreement, Sec. 3.03). PBS would
prepare and send to the Bank a Project Completion Report not later than six
months after the closing date (Loan Agreement, Sec. 3.04 (d)). PBS would
prepare this report in accordance with format ancl content guidelines agreed
upon during negotiations. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
PBS would carry out the above monitoring reporting and evaluation
requirements. To ensure adequate personnel input: for this important task,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that PBS would provide,
exclusively to the project during its first four years, not less than four
manmonths per year of supervision time, through personnel whose
qualifications are acceptable to the Bank (Loan A.greement, Sec. 3.04(b)).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
55.      Total project cost, based on mid-1981 appraisal and revised and
updated to mid-1982, is US$82.2 million, with a foreign exchange component of
US$35 million, including the capitalized front end fee. The cost estimates
include taxes and duties, estimated at US$3.8 million, physical and price
contingencies and incremental working capital. Physical contingencies amount
to 6% of base costs excluding incremental working capital. Bank projected
international inflation rates have been used for price contingencies together
with estimated domestic inflation rates for construction industry as
follows: 1982 (July-December) - 17.5%; 1983 - 25%; 1984 and 1985 - 20%. The
local price contingencies are based on historical trends and estimates of
project authorities and local contractors which suggest that price increases
in the domestic construction industry, particularly for cement and labor, are
likely to be greater than general price movements which are projected to be
13%-15% during 1982-1985. The provisions for local price contingencies are
justified by project specific circumstances and uncertainties in price
projections in a period of major shifts in macro-economic policy leading to a
marked decline in overall inflation with different effects on different
sectors.   Details of the cost estimates are shown in the Loan and Project
Summary.
56.      The proposed Bank loan of US$35 million would finance 43% of the
total financing requirement of the project, equivalent to 100% of the foreign
exchange cost, including US$517,241 of capitalized front end fee. The loan
would finance up to US$0.5 million of the foreign exchange component of
working capital requirements of agro-industries.
57.      The proposed loan would be made to PBS for 15 years, including three
years of grace. Repayment would be according to a schedule reflecting the
composite amortization schedules of the sub-loans financed. PBS would
on-lend the loan proceeds to the sub-borrowers in accordance with the terms
and procedures described below (see paras. 58-59). As in the case of other
agricultural loans in Yugoslavia, the foreign exchange risk of the Bank loan



- 19 -
would be borne by the sub-borrowers who are in the social sector. The
balance of the project financial requirements, US$47.2 million, would be
financed as follows: PBS would provide US$30.9 million from its own funds
and the Federal and Republic Special Funds and the sub-borrowers would
provide the remaining US$16.3 million from their own funds. PBS would make
arrangements for the provision of funds to cover possible cost overruns.
58.      The terms of the sub-loans under the project would be related to the
cash flow projections of the investments. The repayment period would not
exceed 15 years, including grace periods of up to five years. Sub-borrowers
normally would be required to contribute not less than 20% of total
investment costs. In accordance with Yugoslav law, contributions from the
Federal and Republic Special Funds would be treated as part of sub-borrower
contributions.
59.      The interest rates for on-lending would be:
(a) for Bank funds, a minimum of 12.85%, including 1.25% per annum
to cover administrative costs. This is in line with the
average cost of long-term foreign exchange resources in
Yugoslavia and in international capital markets;
(b) for the portion of domestic funds provided from the resources
of PBS, a minimum of 15%; and
(c) for the portion of domestic funds provided from the Federal and
Republic Special Funds, the interest rate would be determined
in accordance with the prevailing rates set by the Federal and
SRBH authorities, currently at 4%-6%.
Interest Rates
60.      Nominal interest rates on domestic currency loans in Yugoslavia have
been traditionally negative in real terms. In order to gradually correct
this situation, it was agreed under Industrial Credit V Project (IC V) (Loans
1909-1912 YU), approved in November 1980, that banks would increase the
lending rate in Bank financed subprojects on loans from their own local
currency sources from a minimum of 7% to 10%. The banks have complied with
the above agreement. The inflation rate in Yugoslavia increased from an
annual average of 16.8% during 1970-79 to 30% in 1980 and 56%, on an annual
basis, in the first half of 1981. However, it declined substantially to 25%
on an annual basis in the second-half of 1981 due to the Government's
anti-inflationary measures resulting in an increase in prices of 39% for 1981
as a whole. The official target is to limit the inflation rate to 15% in
1982 and the intention is to keep the rate in the range of 13-15% during the
remainder of the current five-year social plan (1981-85). Given the monetary
and fiscal policies which are to be implemented in 1982, in accordance with
the agreements reached with the IMF, these targets for lowering inflation
should be achievable in the short-term. Further improvements over the medium
term can also be expected as a result of the Government's commitment to
continued anti-inflationary measures which have already proven to be
effective in the recent past.



- 20 -
61.      While there appears to be an increasing recognition within
Yugoslavia for the need to use interest rates as a more meaningful instrument
in the mobilization and allocation of resources, policy makers point to the
need for a gradual adjustment. In accordance with this strategy, and
following consultations with the IMF (end January 1982) the Yugoslav
Government has recently decided to increase interest rates on sight and time
deposits and on lending by the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and the
commercial banks. The requirement under this project for PBS to charge a
minimum interest rate of 15% on long-term local currency loans provided from
its own resources would ensure a marginally positive rate in real terms over
the life of the loan if the inflation rate in the next three years in
Yugoslavia is in the range of 13-15% and remains at this level beyond 1985.
Apart from the specific agreements on interest rates obtained under
Industrial Credit VI and this project, the policy dialogue, as provided under
IC V, will continue and interest rates in Yugoslavia will be reviewed on an
annual basis.
62.      There will be no floor rates on long-term local currency loans from
the Federal and Regional funds. These funds are obligatory contributions
imposed on enterprises to meet specific social objectives and, therefore,
their mobilization and allocation are inelastic to interest rate changes.
63.      Since the proposed Bank loan would be on-lent by the borrower after
adding a spread of 1.25% on the Bank's interest rate and the sub-borrowers
will carry the foreign exchange risk, the real cost of the Bank's funds to
the sub-borrowers would be very close to that of international commercial
sources taking into account the currency pooling system and current
international lending rates.
Cost Recovery
64.      All subloans for both agro-industries and Popovo Polje would be
fully recovered through standard loan debt servicing. The irrigation scheme
in Popovo Polje is largely a social sector enterprise scheme and so the O&M
costs are internalized and treated as operating costs.
Marketing
65.      Agro-Industries:  The major outputs of the various agro-industries
are wheat flour, crude vegetable oil, slaughtered and dressed poultry and
pickled and frozen vegetables. The flour mills and oil seed processing
plants are largely replacements of existing facilities, while the main impact
of the facilities for pickling, freezing and storage of vegetables is to
stabilize the seasonal fluctuations in the supply of vegetables rather than
to augment total production. Hence, there are no marketing issues for these
products. Poultry slaughtering will have significant incremental impact.
However, between 1975 and 1979, per capita consumption of poultry meat, in
both SFRY and SRBH, grew by over 10% annually and appears to have been
constrained principally by supply. The increased output of poultry meat as a
result of this investment will not lead to oversupply either in SFRY or SRBH.



- 21 -
66.      Popovo Polje:  The incremental primary production from the Popovo
Polje-Irrigation component area will be marketed fresh. The Popovo Polje is
located near the Adriatic tourist resort area of Dubrovnik and is a net
importer of agricultural goods. Production from this project will have a
marginal impact on SFRY production except for vine rootstock cuttings.
Long-term export contracts for vine graftings have resulted in a shortage of
root cuttings. The impact on SRBH is significant for apples and grapes.
Apples are currently purchased from outside SRBH to meet processing and fresh
consumption needs, as are table grapes. The variety of table grapes will be
seedless, which is new to SFRY, and is expected to command a marketing
premium particularly among tourists. For wine grapes, HEPOK has in their
local wineries sufficient capacity to handle all of the incremental
production. HEPOK is a large agricultural kombinat and has extensive
marketing facilities and will handle the majority of the production.
Accounts and Auditing
67.      PBS would maintain separate project accounts for subloan
disbursements and would ensure that the Social Accounting Service of
Yugoslavia (SDK) annually audit the accounts according to internationally
accepted standards and would submit such audited accounts to the Bank within
six months of the close of each year. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that these auditing requirements would be followed and that the
separate project accounts would be made available by PBS to Bank supervision
missions (Loan Agreement, secs. 5.03 and 5.04).
Procurement and Disbursements
68.      All agro-industries processing equipment totalling US$22.9 million
would be procured following international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Domestic manufacturers would receive a 15%
margin of preference or the actual level of import duty, whichever is less in
bid comparisons. Limited international tendering would be used to procure
pumping station equipment, on-farm sprinkler equipment, and fruit tree and
vineyard root stock material for Popovo Polje, estimated to cost US$2.2
million. Quotations from at least three different suppliers would be
solicited. These latter items are quite specialized with only a very limited
number of suitable supply sources, while the former item is relatively small
but involving high degree of technology and skills. Limited international
tendering has therefore been considered. Local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank would be used to provide all
agro-industries civil works totaling US$43.1 million, and underground
irrigation pipelines and associated civil works and on-farm machinery and
equipment for Popovo Polje totalling US$4.2 million. The size of the civil
works contracts for agro-industries is relatively small (about US$5.2 million
each) and in the case of Popovo Polje, totals only US$2.2 million. These are
unlikely to attract foreign bidders. Even on turnkey type agro-industries
projects, foreign bidders have always sub-contracted civil works to the local
construction industry. Farm equipment (US3l.9 million) consists of
diversified pieces of locally manufactured equipment which would be required



- 22 -
gradually over the entire period of development of the project. Tllese items
therefore would not be suitable for ICB procurement. Local procurement
procedures acceptable to the Bank and requiring at lease three quotations
would be used to procure on-farm buildings (US$0.57 million), and
miscellaneous items of works, principally trellising poles and wire,
fertilisers, pesticides and farmyard manure for Popovo Polje estimated to
cost US$4.1 million.
69.      Disbursements are expected to extend over a period of about 4.25
years. The expected annual disbursement of the loan proceeds is given in the
Loan and Project Summary. Disbursement of the loan would be made as follows:
(a) for agro-industries equipment and civil works, 100% of foreign
expenditures and 40% of local expenditures;
(b) for Popovo Polje:
(i)  overground irrigation, pumping and power equipment and
on-farm tractors, machinery and equipment, 100% of foreign
expenditures and 100% of local expenditures ex-factory;
(ii)  Experimental drainage plot, 100%, of total cost;
(iii)  for civil works for underground irrigation, on-farm
buildings and fruit tree and vineyard root stocks, crop
establishment material, including trellising poles and
wire, and fertilizers, 100% of foreign expenditures and
35% of local expenditures.
70.      Retroactive Financing.  In crder to have firm cost estimates and
speed-up implementation of the agro-industries subprojects, retroactive
financing of foreign exchange expenditures (incurred after December 31, 1981)
relating to procurement of equipment up to US$3.5 million is recommended
(Loan Agreement, para. 4 of Schedule 1). This would cover the downpayments
which will be required following signing of contracts for agro-industries
equipment to be procured under ICB.
Benefits and Employment
71.      The direct project benefits are about 28,000 tons of incremental
output of fresh fruits, vegetables and cereal crops, together with the value
added through processing and storage of wheat, poultry and vegetables. In
agro-industries at full development, the project investments would create 306
full-time jobs and restore 238 existing full-time jobs. In Popovo Polje, the
incremental employment impact would be 200 full-time jobs for on-farm and
irrigation purposes and about 55 man-years of seasonal labor, mainly for
harvesting. The project's non-quantifiable benefits include strengLhening of
supervision and project implementation capacity of PBS and experiences of
Popovo Polje development for possible replication for development of similar



- 23 -
karst valleys in the region. The foreign exchange impact of the project
would be minimal as the output, which would not be large, would be meant for
domestic consumption.
72.      Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return to the overall
project is 27% with a 30% rate of return to the agro-industries component
(representing 80% of project cost), and 16% to the Popovo Polje irrigation
component (representing 20% of project cost). The overall project rate of
return is sensitive to changes in revenues and operating costs; with a 10%
reduction in benefits, the project's rate of return drops to 9.8%, and with a
10% increase in operating costs, it drops to 13.1%. The estimated financial
rate of return for agro-industries is 19%, and for the Popovo Polje component
is 22%.
Risks
73.      Consideration was given during appraisal to the question of capacity
utilization and food processing subprojects where such utilization is low
were excluded. The risk of project failure has, therefore, been much
reduced. The viability of the Popovo Polje component was enhanced during
appraisal by altering the proposed design of the irrigation system to a lower
cost system and redesigning the proposed cropping pattern. Project
procurement is at an advanced stage. This has been required by the Bank in
order to minimize implementation delays and cost overruns which have been
occurring recently in SFRY as a result of high domestic inflation and counter
inflationary measures. All technology in the project, although new to some
investors, is already in existence within SFRY and so may be viewed in
operation. All agro-industries anticipate using coal as the source of plant
energy requirements for steam and heat. However, there is some risk in the
management of the individual subprojects and the overall project;
particularly the quality and efficiency of management with respect to
procurement, construction and start-up. In this respect PBS supervision
efforts, which are being strengthened under the project, will be of
importance.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Privredna Banka
Sarajevo-Udruzena Banka, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii), of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
75.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
76.      I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 24 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By
Mr. Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 15, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
YUGOSLAVIA - SOClAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                                   Page  1  of  6
YUGOSLAVIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
LAN'D AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TEAL             255.8                                       MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME          INDUSTRIALIZED
.,GRlCULTURAI.    142.8                  1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b               EUROPE             MARKET ECONOMIES
GNP PEN CAPITA (US$)                      370.0       830.0    2430.0                   2609.1                     9444.0
UNERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         875.1       1554.3    2440.3                   2368.4                    7896.6
PUPLLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    18402.0       20371.0   22139.0
LBBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL)    27.9          34.8       41.5                    53.2                      76.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 20UW  (MILLIONS)                           25.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              29.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                       2065
PUPLLATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           71.9         79.6       86.5                    80.6                     142.7
PER SQ. KM. ACRICULTURAL LAND        124.0        139.0      153.7                   133.9                     523.3
POPULA'TION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             30.5         27.4       24.8                    30.1                      22.8
15-64 YRS.                             63.2         64.8      66.3                     61.5                      65.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       6.3          7.8        8.8                     8.3                      11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   1.2         1.0        0.9                     1.5                       0.8
URBAN                                   3.6         3.2        2.9                     3.1                       1.3
CRUDE BIRTH kATE (PER THOUSAND)         23.2         18.8       17.5                    22.9                      14.5
CRUDIE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          9.8         9.0        8.5                     9.1                       9.5
GRoSS kEPRODUCTION RATE                   1.4         1.3        1.1                     1.6                       0.9
PFRlEL LY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)            ..
LUERS (PERCENT OF MANRIED WOMEN)         ..        59.0
:OOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)              85.0         93.0     117.0                    119.8                     112.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                      125.0        130.0     136.0                    125.7                     131.4
PROTEINS (GRAlS PEE DAY)              93.0         93.0      101.0                    92.5                      98.1
OF WHICH ANIIIAL AND PULSE          28.0         32.0       39.0                    39.7                      62.2
C.HILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          5.0         2.6        1.5                     3.4                       0.6
HUEALTH
LIEU EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        63.2         66.9       70.3                    68.9                      73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               87.7         55.5       33.6                    25.2                      12.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         33.6
URBAN                                 42.4         62.0
RURAL                                   ..         12.3
ACCESS To EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
LRBAN                                    ..          ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..
POPULAIION PER PRYSICIAN              1616.0       1000.0     762.4                    973.3                     621.2
POPULATION PUR NURSING PERSON         1350.0/c      410.0     409.0                    896.6                     217.4
POPULATION PLR HOSPITAL BED
T'OTAL                               200.0        179.0     166.0                    262.3                     119.4
LRBAN                                    ..        70.0      101.6                   191.8                     120.9
RURAL                                   ..       1610.0    1836.9
ADMISSIUNOD   PER HOSP1TAL BED            ..         17.0       18.2                    18.2                      17.9
IOUS 1NG
AVERAGL SIZE OF HOUSEIIOLD
TUrAL                                  4.0          3.8        3.8
URBAN .                                3.3          3.2       3.3                       *
RURAL                                  4.4          4.3       4.1
AVERAGE NUSIBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   1.6         1.4
URBAN                                   1.7         1.3
RURAL                                   1.5         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP' DWELLINGS)
T'OTAL                                 54.5        87.9
LRBAN                                 92.7         98.4
RLKAL                                 36.1         80.1



- 26 -
TABLE 3A                                                             ANNEX  I
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                                 Page  2  of  6
YUGOSLAVIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVl§AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT             ifIDDLE INCOME           INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                 EUROPE             MARKET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 111.0        106.0       99.0                    105.9                      99.6
MALE                  113.0        108.0      100.0                    109.6                     102.1
FEMALE                108.0        103.0       98.0                    102.2                     101.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   58.0         69.0       82.0                     66.3                      89.3
MALE                   63.0         78.0       86.0                     73.2                      83.3
FEMALE                 53.0         58.0       78.0                     59.5                      85.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)    ..            26.0       21.0                     28.4                       18.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              33.0         27.0       25.0                     26.8                      21.2
SECONDARY                            13.0         22.0       19.0                     23.6                      16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          77.0         83.5       85.0                     75.4                       98.9
CONSU1MPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            3.0         35.4       88.5                     83.9                     349.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           84.9        165.5      209.1                    181.6                    1018.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.4         88.2      170.2                    131.1                     400.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    69.0         85.3       95.9                    123.8                     336.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0             4.0        3.4                      5.7                       4.3
LABOR PURCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        8302.0       8837.6/d  9381.7/d
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     35.0         35.9       36.0                     32.9                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                63.0         51.0       30.9                     34.0                       6.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   18.0         23.0       32.9                     28.7                      37.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  45.1         43.4       4z.4                     42.3                      45.7
MaLE                                   60.0         56.6       55.0                     56.5                       58.9
FEMALE                                 30.9         30.6       30.1                     28.5                      33.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.8          0.8        0.8                      0.9                        0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.4/e         15.1/f    13.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  41.57e          41.47?    38.7
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.S/e           6.6lf      6.6
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0/e          18.4/f    18.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..     430.0                     385.1
ESTDIATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  .. ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962; /d Including migrants workers abroad; /e 1963; /f 1968.
May, 1981



- 27 -                                                                                                ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
EItFIbIMNt_Ot_OP OCIaC ftOICAOTlS
Mot..   Although the datear  draan ftrot errr           enraly Jidged the oceathrt               eed reliable, it ehoild also h  noted th.t they nay to  be intr-
nationaly  roapaaila  taause ofthe lar  of atedaroa    e   i  oaed.tnng..  red  Y def  rternreisi  r  lren   h  data    The data are, tote-
theleem, usetil to demortha ordero of oageitrda, teed irate trends, ted rhararnerlee  naceeto nalor dIll aratree hetneen r_...o,,ntr lee....  .  .:
Th Ieateageuear.l.hemc  rcoy.ro   f.h uh  r..oty  n                                                                            t sorrytop  ibanohohiha  seae  nom  tatherute    eu
ofth  ahar  rutr   (ertefr  CaItlhut utl1   aprtr"! gopsnr"'MdldIon horrhley  o   ndttde  at-itrot  hnrtofeete
eoofo-ultoea . f.     ntec P        h  rfrot  ru   oa  h   rrge    r   opteo    elhe   oihel   euafrcrlm   rto-ndmn  nyca
agetorearal- tatoete o  agrlul noal are  uaadteeprarllp   r yaraneoty             anaiahia  t pobln anduroiaghgedreh  an  n--ete trad hosital  ed ra
to    rpIt.nua,eahrcd ntohe..dn   rnolefa.a.                                17   aa.hhlh.tocoorr  ---aeer   sahlhattpronr  y  tte
titY  f  he   9-1 he, d-  1-  Ihl,                      "h  a  Oot  nephaoln.foahrhote   po*u'e.nrntrOaI yre-
alT-d h-    aa   onr  o   ahda    rl TunlrIAtisa (197-19  a-b- 9h,                                    n      -edra  -re1r  norde bersareoy  araffediby a          Iht~u  (hut hya
190,ae  1979, da-ta.        k,-dklh.                                                                erd-fij,ita  a'not, re  aidaif   errI  hob   oirinrhaein~
,970 d-eoannorlaoeerat   oediatalrI..a.. Parrai
eftl   ltMpiini  A  T     dna   oaetono ririlenry(rlool  uyrr   ra hbiuetnoe  taptopl gnrlbataa
Celgee,ptolc.Ieoltendyro,r                          kancdgeIhrolle-aInrahte...ca   orraha..lotmdlaaeaeetr
tetotty   it Inlogrootof ora  aqurnoent ye  rapOnalYti,  970, ad 1979                 eterto     hoarOalted  hopineta  re ierudtd  ony unde  total
dana.                                                                                       Adaltatrne-ndT.keAt nat ted  - Totaoehefadeoln tor
tlPCLgtIlfl dill PITAI,d tTOTISTIC-I1   .1edi-                                                                                                 F.
toneli Poplatrn  nidTea  Itoens  A,J         tofJly1; 1960, 1970,  ood 1979                    bOhIhINI
Ire   ooaoelie  r   tooi-a   rota  e  ittlrrlolr.                                                        oehl odonelnra. r~            -        . it-ru    o fir dodu lt   oiara 1 liin ql-het-
diftreondenoe tta o  orban  resenay  ffai nopanao iny r  dat              an  nnh' cait.l.r dIs.  by thorer or loge  eoyob         nyntdellddi
amangrcee_eP           Oid    197. an  197  daa                                                     the hoceobolo  fur otartatirda117puenreac 
diffctentn   dProl  i-fob-otloonp btil      dl._ Oorterbl                                                        ru  rronaporon-roai   -haan   rual   ioerageeci-
-ecaeoin-ea 1i9      -Crrn   orlto    rooros r,oe  on7 lohi_                                 her of prhon  par toeIn        -luni,en   ualoru  e  rn                  oa
leg life  -ap-or-o   at birth inor. -fog eirh oueaPer ryita iler.e.                           A,r"Iatr flronroyit-y lyrent orf d-eaLnoel- e-ia, urban. aed ear at
Ienel, and tfnal  1ofe apoen   atboltiniasa  77 5 yse ,              The rar-                   Conn-n -na  dertlonet. oteh eia-iboty in litnin  coaerr  a
-oaa -tfo_tdetlitytron       eaeobnehrta  IlrlaaI         cn"gI    rtneo_                        oftos  _, rba.  ndr-ra(de-1l1ngare--att-ly.
asch reatryflenhenaa_igrad  _a of nh-eeotrrom-tattr-  of  -rtaity                           EDUCCATTOt
St-an..esy  "poplintne-fn   sec t_nory pryJiation thereron  groat, .,tinaelanaho    rotor. not  .nd f-ena                                          ...ro. to-, mai~le ai taeala
thhebirtheteimaqoaltot ho  deanhr-ie, aodaleonhbeaeaarrcrerreee.- anr                                    IeteoalAgeaoannharcmty-te..a.la                   .. p .reegrao  r"aPer"
mat..a.o..tnt.' Thia It arhitnad only titer farei ley r-ne  darline rn                             peleary lb eof-age   ouunre  nral  looldem  cho'ldea  aged 6-11t"
thhar-pla-e-a  lenelof.it onatrapr-4utooera -etaha-ar -1 narenoan                                 yar  hutb-djnaetfodr1 iftaern  lenghoorrmryd                  fatatln
at noie  reylor   letalf ..eanely.  The n-i..oetry poylaeliorleaea                                roee e I    ith ocaroed-oatir  enrollment eay ro-ed lOt ree-a
e-ni-aed on the bhaisla ofhn projdeond rhareota taiort ct  nn  poplaroe-  tom ...i.pils are boln or obo-  nh ffmii ar boat1 age.
ireh,ayearl.lf,adrherb    rd lia ffartiteyartoraptere-                                          te-otd.rty  hool--o 1, Inelaeld femall-Campcre              - e bahn;ee-odary
_oni lool..                                                                                        edcrattoer;equtIaa    le.. ..tteor yars .o dpp            Pte pr-y inenrnrbiee;
nea atnlner ar:         ato  t   earhed -The.erea  anono.sy ppula-e-                                 P""n", geneal  nnr--1l...l, -r -aaher                       I.t.en trci-ee ter pnpi"
te baa .ee  -eehad.                                                                          uanaly o .12 in 17 yecre of age;                             ..repoete.oce . era .geeea.y
PPaalattae D.me.. etar..udad.
fee ee. In. - Mid-yaa- poiat          pertccr  kilo-aer 1100  -e-nra  of                          tor-tic-1eeoine              ren  t         dso tdayf - fe-thi-1a  i-sitneira
tota  area; 1960, 1970 and 1979 dat.                                                              iouatehia.ocnll,o   te  progra.  mhirheeaehdmo-
Par .e. knn a-r-lti-1 laed  - Canund es abona for agrlrule..ra  ianderycredertmreteaose lmioin.
ally; I'll, I'7ll and 1978 data.-                                                               Poil-t ...he, ratio    pti,lagyo..gd  -a-idrn -Io.ieodtd.eaoti 
PPoeaiom a          st..itesnur  fPreeteec   - Childec   fl-14 y-aeal. -okieg-age (tt-                 peemry and aecoodary tene. dintdedb   ..p eate.  ft tearhermiethe
6i yee-af  ,ed reire   (61' ...r. sod -oer  a  p          trogea ot mid-yea  nP.o-                   -orrep-edig  lanai..
lI.te;10,970  Ae             9  ae                                                                 drit liteer   at y       rre     Lttsrateagrlaa  labliano  :a.d aA orine
Pa.   ltiat l-tt h Rane (reret-9 tta   - aae..el goeanb  anee at e-t1 mid-                             esParo tage  of tota  adultIpplt r   gd 1Iy t adro.
pear p-yiatioe. foe 1950-61, 19601-i, sod 1910-79.
Por2laeia lreeb Rae taetret ..t-cran-  eoA-l eroth r-tes nf -rh- poy-                           CONSUMPeTION
Iti...e for 195f-60, 1960-70, sad 1970-79.                                                      Pa......te  Car  fre  thooaaed rorulseirof - r.....ee ra- c        oyie  mte
cina  itith Rean  fear eh--ed) - -...ce  Ine bitenb  Per ehbacsed at etd-y-e                       rare a.tog Ie.e that eOghe  at              t _lndee esbolmeea  he-e..an
Ppapctanio; iif.1970,  od179 dare.                                                                             hi iar  nbela
Cendo teet  Rata free  hoceed)l - Ae.o. Ideah. Pe  h...eaeda of gid-yase                          radie eenr  (ea            ...rasd apttlaittoo   - All tyMtaof    eeoa.  tar- redia
papt.thaa.; 1960. 1970, so  1:i79 dste.                                                           bhraadoeaogeeI ~poblin par  boinanlld of ,Po,ls ioeoicmme-
treeRratdarnire tR-n         - bneanchrf d-ghterea aeaillheS rltIlnmmd   elnr                                            lcootiaaedi    ye            Seaenrgeta inn itrdt
henosierdtio                atd itfbpaapr      .aaaa      raeage-epe-ifirfar-                      mnoeifee;danatorf nen   year  msyeo-hbompseblmaa
tiliyraea;caaliyft n-yea  anesga e-dtmg ie 1960, 1970, ted 17.matceraaeltabhd Iltetteitg.
F-iollPIl...ita - A-r--ner ...tuIfth....eodal-grclnum.hert  e-r..t.r                              TV Retainer.   P lrtheca....      cttielTV  east -r be-red-aar
of birtb-neetra  danitm   nd-r ...epile. at rtional f..Inyyleiapormgnrl pulir pe  toaan   pa-latir; eor ldet noinemeadiSt retaine.
Psotr Panets-tara  oecent of m.rried women)l-   -Pereae  o  maae                             trctreedenYea.fae   elealnitS   ema.i    tfei
ofi rhtld-bealeg age Itt-A4yarlwh  h.               rnt-roner-t de-ireto                  teaae   irusiafe   boaa   cca ton).  1.--b  the.  .rtg   ta-
olmrid nseie a_e age groop.                                                                  rlto   et "daily         ! gea tl aioalaet alpspar", datfmed eap itd ial 
pchlrateo   a-ned ynimeitilp to illa tdin  tea  nm.It ie to..eiderd
Iodea of tead frcdcrlat oe Capita 11969-71-1001  -Iodeo of pee r.Pbt.  nn           Cioesa Aeecal Anted-rr ret Caries rer t.a,-a.ed  -e the  -ber of
p_rdrtion at all trod romditiea.  P-ad-Jtia  eolcdea ted  -ed feed aed                            tirkte  maid durieg the y-o. itli.ditgd.dataien. te Adne-in   iea
is ata-ed-r roar heera.  C-odiniearo-r primary goada lea.  eunrsead mahtleoie
ietedrt   rgrlhirhr    edhee                  atatriena  lea.  -afoed
teese  eridel   Aggeegat  prdcrtio   o  aah  ooey iIhAeB0 ORal FOgCE
nainl -nrga prrdcrer pri- aeighne; 1t61-65, 1970. and 1979 data                            Totallbt,ahrPot (hcae               - EtoeeeioaIly atire  proem,  orldi
Per retIna a-in of aloe e   reeno  releae    Coepotd  ro                               rd  jforem  sd teamp2laed  -c erldlng heoanine, atdhe.rt
aeargyeqninaiet  of net food appliec snatishl  iroruenry  yars pita          toneriegporulantoo of  ll ages. ..tintnaoa  it earitotDeocetrtaa ar
per. day.    niat  arpplt-ea ton;p   eia  oeee pIdI         no nme    Ie"otImarhe    90  17   nd17  dt.7
aataeaiM btdbyFI  ado  rhatlgla  oe..d. formelerl .i..i.g..e- pe-bl                                           ag   ot60   tenet isba  ton;  90,170ad  99daa
b   _shadtert   91-t 90  and  P97  dat.d170and199dta
Peadelebyre    f    FrAOi (eas oar dhyilgi-1Pont  roneen of pee rsit                   Pfihaeaiog   Rat learron - toei   ftl. adfnee-Pataaioa
net ayt   tte    e   s      a   cry  nt  oodih  efnedamhbo...e-.rtitdpraes  re  ampb-                                           em-  tti, inite,  adtml               ots
iIeet   t9   e.e  tnlpoeeprdyeD 70 goete of seingi  n                                  1    11960, 1970,yae  197  Oes.dg. Them  a.te aei   ni.     .p.tept           ae
pled ..a. ee,i  o b nhti h 10 gPratna ebaudbeaima   rten            haaatd                      raieigaeennroceo  eeppiainf    tang nin ftren.;   9
hne.d.foad 1_eno; 1961-i65  1970, and  0977 data                                                no7 thed o 19b79  d torte
ta"  "'it's "proei  ma      I!      . relytram  e fe f  te   a ieeP t  ed rt  of food de-
eledtra   aIml en palaet         i  gess par6   pds   l9ti-tt  190  ed197  an.              anit iotn:re
agegeopl-i yara,eohttdre   tebleage d gbtUSAp;oemdnirnru. paridmeI,eioibemi 217 penar                                           poMee  fpotn,etdpooEar                er
erie. dane damned from tlife  ia19ee; 1960,90900 mmd 1979 data,                           of b,0tohoode
Lita taretntry s   Birhth Iare Z-   erg h     oahld  b t  aara ot lifeThanatn.og                Th tofllote g   .....te  art-t-ry aprth inpate   esce  o   ord        y           Aeee
an  treh;  1960. 197 ahed 1979 dae                                                               seed fab1oo-ld ha3 t..      intrrndat   rnieairctn
.ae   MrtliPty Rate foe          fbone thd  - dobl  eah  of.....   aune IOneA   ,   l   reard     tlmadA ronPneyTnmaanal 10   artni) chemdoa
of ege gee tboaasnd line hirthe.                                          Ahea.... lo Dponerty  Reti. -ee Uis thn       -tnom   ledel babe ledt a5 lend
herla peopl  (total 196165, med. -oal  einbeaosbaa set  eseetritihna_iyodeqba     ditpafeaonlnnfodtqi-maei   a
eatr agpl  (trlo  eaneanedacrsteana     o   Ptreated bctPplonaOratd dfarahe
1~~  ft.,  .1:1'd  p.1...  i.  gt-   P-  d-ytetinaed 1e61in65Pne197n0nran19an7Id06t  ne INCOME                                       -aehmT.adU`tal 
asermth  m  ha  tram-       p-onttddhhreolP mpinh  s                        ....t.pels d  ~         ica  ratstin `p--re  tnner ibeI  is..e-eird)a e- rg  per-dbyt,ins-
iti..  d.t.  d-i-d  ft i I ,  I d          te                              f  h ....~~teimate  Pao.t1d tloAfeli  anoyfmn tniletet     r
reanblsnsToH                  ipythtte  raaleo  seeino   hehiebi                                      n   mealG  - UPeemtoS      ouain(re   n    el   h   r   selt
Mombrho 9parple (toal  orb7n, en  oaral)d m.rdgd by eardett                                                                            ld..rid  - am
ofthiro .p..n popAla...inne . feret  dispoee  may- intldah
nbenallenaiaeenddoaramsl,oteborotebo-tot treseLinentS,                                                                p        l.pitamaedentra1s
sadnasa-at      Meb on-boree. aye-mterp--ye ofJtt-rinma,ed  Lat                                                             Oten rhea yet. ...adbl Pr         Illte    iepreen
WesWetmmn.lttstdo...
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                                                     n ay.. ei
fetalatonearPbnlnit - fetetednddheabrfpating he-
nAmeqsl        tdlre*mdrs              ols  aeter  iay  anai
UPocn llatmtenriaP so -b to,poltin  intdedhr-rater of  prtt mined.                                                                i.    l      .eti1-1dtq.t               t     
.siesdfe  ninagradoate.. eame,Z,.         1i.:                                                .iidRIt-P-t                        ..     .    USH        i.         b      d -



-28 -
ANNEX I
Yage 4of 6
Population: 22.3 million (mid-1980)
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,620 (1980)
YUGOSLAVIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                                   Annual Growth Rates IX)
(million US$ at                                             (at constant 1972 prices)
Inoicator                    current prices)                                     Actual                                      ct           Projected
1980 c/          1975       1976       1977       1978        1979       1980       1981  -   1982       1983      1984       1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/          69,232              0.9        5.2        8.4        8.5        4.2        2.2        2.2        2.5        3.6       3.6       3.6
Agriculture                       8,516             -2.6        6.4        5.7       -5.4        5.4        0.0        1.0        3.2        3.2       3.2       3.1
Industry                         28,801             7.4         4.1        9.5        9.3        8.5        3.6        1.4        2.3        4.0       4.2       4.2
6ervices                         24,993              1.4        5.3        7.1       13.1       -2.0       -2.2        3.4        2.5        3.3       3.1       3.1
Consumption                        48,760             -3.3        0.0        9.8       13.0        3.8        0.6       -1.1        2.8        3.5       2.7       2.8
Gross investnent                   23,218             10.1        3.6       17.4       -3.2       12.0       -3.2       -1.2       -2.5        1.3       4.2       4.6
Exports of GNFS                    14,053              1.1       10.4       -2.0        4.8        2.6       12.6        9.3        7.0        6.6       6.6       6.6
Imports of GNFS                    16,799             -1.3       -8.6       16.1        2.5       12.0       -9.7       -2.6        2.6        4.3       5.2       5.7
Gross national savings             19,619             14.7       20.6        5.6       -3.1        3.4         5.8        -          -          -         -         -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 =100)              411            170        204        232        260        313        411           -          -          -         -         -
Exchange rate                          24.9           17.4       18.2       18.3       18.6       19.0       24.9         -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (2)                                       Average Annual Increase (Y)
(at current prices) b/                                              (at constant 1972 prices)
1960     1970        1975      1980       1985                           1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85
Gross Domestic Product !/        100.0    100.0       100.0    100.0       100.0                              5.9        6.5        5.7        3.1
.griculture                     22.5      16.1       13.8      12.3       12.1                              3.3        2.9        2.4        2.7
Industry                       42.2      37.4       44.3      41.6       41.8                               6.3        8.3        7.0       -3.2
Services                        29.0     38.1        33.1      36.1       36.1                              6.9        4.7        4.3        3.1
Consumption                       67.2      72.8       74.3      70.4       69.8                              6.5        6.9        5.4        2.1
Gross investment                  36.5      32.3       33.5      30.5       27.8                              4.7        5.5        5.3        1.3
Exports GNFS                      13.9      18.5       20.2      27.7       33.7                             10.2        6.7        5.7        7.2
l1.ports GNFS                     17.5      23.5       28.0      31.4       31.3                              9.8        6.7        2.5        3.1
Gross national savings              32.6      29.6       25.6      28.3       28.4                              5.3        6.2        6.5         -
As Z of GDP
1960     1970       1975      1980
PUBL1C FINANCE
Total revenues                    27.9      33.1       36.8      37.6
Total expenditures                24.1      33.2       37.2      38.2
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)         3.3       0.1       -0.4       0.6
Foreign financing                  0.0       0.0       -0.4       0.0
1960-70  1970-75    1975-80  1980-85
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate 1%)                6.1       6.7        5.7       2.8
GNP per capita growth rate         5.0       6.6        4.7       1.9
lCOR                               5.4       4.6        5.8       9.1
lmport elasticity                  1.6       1.0        0.5       1.0
a/ At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
bl Projected years at constant 1972 prices.
c/ Estimate.
EMENA 1C
March 19, 1982



- 29 -
Population:  22.3 million (1980)                                                                                                                             ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,020 (1980)                                                                                                                              Page 5 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Afount                                                     Annual Growth Rates (X)
(m-lliom U$ at                                                 (at constant 1972 prices)
Indicatcor                    current prices)                                      Actual                                                     Projected
(1980)             1975       1976       1977        1978       1979       1980    1981    1982   1983    1984    1985
tLITERNAL TRADt
Merchandise exports                  8,978              0.0       14.5        -5.3        1.0        4.4        11.2    10.6       7.0    6.4       6.4      6.4
Primary a/                         1,940             -3.1       16.6        3.9         1.5        5.6        2.5   -10.7       5.0    5.0       5.0      5.0
Manufactures b/                    7,038              0.4       13.9       -8.8         0.8        4.0       14.1    16.4       7.4    6.7       6.7      6.7
KlercnandLse Imports                15,065             -2.8       -6.5        18.5        3.8       18.8      -13.9    -4.9        2.5    4.3      5.4       6.0
Food                               1,087           -40.9        45.8        4.3      -24.2        51.9       -3.1     -5.5      1.0    1.0       3.5      4.0
Petroleum c/                       3,549             -5.0       10.1       12.0        11.6       10.6       -8.2      0.0       3.0    5.0      5.0      5.0
Machinery and equipment           4,216              22.3       -8.8       17.8         7.1       22.4      -23.1   -19.8    -5.0       3.0      3.0      5.0
Others                            6,213            -11.9       -12.7       22.1        4.4        12.8       -9.3      4.3      6.5    5.4       6.9      6.9
PRICES (1972 = 100)
Export price Indeu                                    172        180        202         220        253        301      331      364    393       423      453
Import price index                                    184        189        216        226         269        319      351      385    419       452      486
Terms of trade Index                                   93.5       95.2       93.5        97.3       94.0       94.4    94.4    94.7   94.0    93.5    93.1
Composition of Merchandise  Trade (X)                                        Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices) d/                                                  (at constant 1972 prices)
1960       1970       1975       1980        1985                            1960-70   1970-75   1975-80  1980-85
txports                                      100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0                               8.1        5.7        5.1        7.4
Primary a!                                 49.6        29.4       19.5       22.0        16.0                                -        -1.3        6.0       1.9
Ma-tmactures bf                             50.4       70.6       80.5        78.0       84.0                                -         8.1        4.7       8.8
Imports                                      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0                               9.0        7.4        4.1       2.7
Food                                         9.1        7.2        5.5         7.2        8.6                                -         5.0       14.9       0.8
Petroleum c/                                 5.4        4.8       12.3       23.6         7.9                                -         8.2        7.2       3.6
Macninely and equipment                     36.8       33.2       33.9        28.0       24.6                                -         9.4        3.1      -2.8
Others                                      48.7       54.8       48.3       41.2        58.8                                -         6.0        3.5       6.0
Share of Trade with                   Share of Trade with             Share of Trade with Capital             Share of Trade with
Indostrial Countries (Z)              Developing Countries (%)           Surplus Oil Exporters (Z)         Centrally Planned Economies (Z)
1965    1970       1975      1979      1965    1970    1975       1979   1965    1970    i975        1979      1965    1970    1975    1979
uIRkCTION OF TRADE
Exports                 40.1    53.3        34.0      40.5      17.4    13.6    16.8    19.3    0.4          0.7      2.1    11.5       42.1    32.4    47.1    40.3
Primary               61.0    70.2       54.0       55.0       9.1      8.2      8.9    14.2    0.2        0.2      1.9      5.8      29.7    21.4    35.2    30.7
M.an.factures         24.0    41.9       2n.O      33.5       23.8    17.2    20.0    21.6    0.6          1.0      2.1    14.2       51.6    39.9    51.9    44.9
Imports                 55.3    66.1       59.1       60.8      16.0    12.7    15.7        n.a.   0.1       0.1      0.6      n.a.    28.6    21.1    24.6    25.3
a/  SITC U-4
t/  S1TC 5-8
c/ SITC 3; xnclodes lubricants, coal and electricity.
d/ Projected years at constant 1972 prices.
e/  Est-mates.  Owing to changes in the valuation of trade, co-ponents do nor add up to totals, nor do aggregate price and volume indices equal value growth
between 1978 and 1979 shown in next table.
EMENA IC
March 19, 1982



- 30 -
ANNEX
Page 6 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - BALANCE (IF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Us$ millions)
Populatio-:  22., million (mid-1980)
GNP Per -apit.o. uS$2,620 (1t8tc
Indicator                                                                      Aotual                                                                      Projected
1970        1975        1976        1977        1978        1979       1980   1981 a!      1982        1983        1994    1995
15ALAN(E OF PAYMENTS
txports of goods and services                    3,037       8,012       9,142      10,586      12,069      14,276      18,300 22,207    25,325         26,482    32,023   35,921
of  nhich:  Merchandise f.o.b.                 1,679      4,073       4,893        5,191       5,809       6,794       8,978 10,939    12,860        14,779    16,905   19,248
lIports of goods and services                    3,385       9,013       8,977      11,932      13,352      17,937      20,592 22,957    25,862        28,828    32,221   35,972
of  shich:  Merchandine c.i.f.                2,874        7,697       7,367       9,789      10,439      14,019      15,065 15,758    17,709        20,114    22,915   26,122
Net cransfers                                        -           -           -           -           -           -           -       -          -            -          -         -
Corrout account bala-ce                            -348      -',001         165      -1,346      -1,283      -3,661      -2,292   -750        -537         -346       -198       -51
Private direct investment                            -           -           -
MLT loans (fnt)                                    196         951       1,094       1,432       1,394       1,009       2,410    762         662          241        865    1,010
Official                                          18         246         213          61         128         131          59  1,097       1,280         451         654      642
Private                                          178         705         881       1,371       1,266         878       2,351   -335       -618         -210         211      368
Other capital b/                                    38         135         119          45         541       1,487         657    143         360          600       -100      -333
Change in reserveu                                 114          85      -1,378        -131        -652       1,165        -775   -155        -485         L495       -567     -626
Intersational reserves c/                          276       1,502       2,880       3,011       3,663       2,498       3,273  3,428      3,913        4,408      4,975    5,601
Of which:  Cold (official valoatiun)              51          62          62          64          69          73          78      78         78           78         78        78
Reserves as months imports                           1.0         2.0         3.8         3.0         3.3         1.7         1.9    1.8         1.8          1.8        1.9       1.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND0 DEBT
Gross dinbhrsenosts                                611       1,647       2,096       2,665       2,800       2,438       4,156  3,223       3,282        2,660      3,642    4,423
Official grnst-
Concessional loans                                67         134         134         159          29          13          20      12          -
DAC                                              0          71          62          66          11          11          15       8         -            -           -        -
OPEC                                             -           -           -           -           -           -           -      -           -            -          -         -
1DA                                              -           -           -           -           -           -           -      -          -             -          -         -
Other                                         675           63          72          93          18           2           5       4          -
Non-coscessional loans                           573      2,037        1,962       2,506      2,671        2,425       4,136  3,211      3,282        2,660      3,642    4,423
Otticial export credits d/                      39        203         283           75          74          60          85  1,375      1,534          723        931    1,145
IB4D                                            37        154         119          133        180         294          258    240        285          341        330       337
Other nultilateral                               -           -           -           -           8          24          36      18          -            -          -         -
Private                                       497       1,680       1,560       2,298       2,409       2,047        3,757  1,578      1,463        1,623      2,381    2,941
Yagusl-s enport credit (net)                      (-37)       (-82)      (-100)      (-183)      (-106)      (-125)      (-300) (-250)    (-230)         (-220)    (-240)   (-156)
Etternal debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed e/                                2,053       5,820       7,172       8,956       11,117      13,608      15,446 16,458    17,350        17,811     18,916   20,081
Official                                      854       2,327       2,792       3,085       3,410       3,662       4,552  4,982       6,492        7,163      8,057    8,855
Private                                     1,199       3,493       4,380       5,871       7,707       9,946       10,894 11,476    10,858        10,648    10,859   11,226
Undisbursed debt                                 948      2,971       2,525       4,438        3,713       3,817       2,542  3,666      4,705        5,627      6,247    6,747
Oebt service f/
Totl service payments                            503       1,441       1,440       1,595       1,886       2,125       2,441  3,961      4,456        4,320      4,720    5,483
Interest ;/                                   128         289         302          367        578         821          995  1,750      2,066        2,121      2,183    2,225
Payments as 2 esports                             16.6        18.0        15,8        15.6        14.9        14.9        13.3   17.8        17.6         15.2       14.7      15.3
Average interest rate ou  nesv loans (7,             7.1         8.1         7.1         7.4         7.7         8.0         8.4    9.2         9.1          8.2        8.5       8.6
Official                                           7.0         8.3         7.0         7.3         7.7         -           -       -          -            -          -         -
Private                                            7.5         7.5         8.6         9.3         8.7         9.5         -       -          -            -          -         -
Average maturity of new loans (years)               16.5        15.2        18.3        15.4        15.1        10.8        10.1   10.2        10.3         10.7       10.5      10.3
Ofticial                                          18.5        16.5        10.0        15.9        15.1         -           -
Private                                           10.9        10.9         5.7         7.5         -
a/ tatioates.
n/  Includ.ensne  use of IMF credit (drawings less r-pu-chases), sec use of short-tern credit and changes in bilateral
balances .
c/Incldio0 gross foreign assets of commercial bhuks.
d/  After 1980, includes horro-ings guaranteed by National Bank of Yugoslavia.                                                                                  EMENA IC
e/  txternal borrowisg reported in the historical balance of payments is n   consistent with oxternal debt data.                                                March 19, 1982
i/  Debt service excludes amortization sod interest on export credit estended by Yugoslavia.
After 1981, includes interest payments  n usee of IMF resources.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of September 30, 1981)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year              Borrower(s)            Purpose           Bank
Undisbursed
Twenty-nine Loans fully disbursed                                   830.3
777    1971   SFRY                           Multipurpose Water   45.0        1.3
894    1973   Stopanska Bank Skopje          Agricultural
Industries           31.0      0.1
916    1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline           59.4    19.3
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways               93.0      0.3
1060    1974   Port of Bar                    Harbor Expansion       44.0      3.6
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik              Water Supply and
Wastewater             6.0     1.6
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda           Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources            20.0      3.9
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &        Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise           Sewerage              45.0    10.6
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise        Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit           Control               38.0      6.8
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka   Second Industrial
Pristina                      Credit                50.0      3.0
1360    1977   Management Organization        Multipurpose
"Metohija"                    Water                 54.0    42.4
1370    1977   Investiciona Banka             Agriculture
Titograd                      Industries            26.0      7.2
1371    1977   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Agriculture
Industries           24.0    13.2
1377    1977   Road Organizations in
Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Serbia, Macedonia, and
Kosovo                       Roads                  56.0      0.1



- 32 -
ANNEX LI
Page 2 of 1?
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose            Bank  Undisbursed
1469    1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in       Second Power
each Republic                 Transmission         80.0       27.8
1477    1977   Vojvodjanska Banka             Second Agricul-
tural Credit         75.0       49.0
1534    1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways             100.0       11.6
1535    1978   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia and
Serbia                       Roads                 80.0       11.8
1561    1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine          Hydro Power           73.0       33.8
1611    1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Third Industrial
Credit               40.0       11.3
1612    1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fourtb Industrial
Credit               20.0        4.1
1613    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0       10.4
1614    1978   Investiciona Banka             Fourth Industrial
Titograd                      Credit               20.0        2.4
1616    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation           82.0       46.8
1621    1978   Privredna Banka                Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                      Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      55.0       49.4
1678    1979   Roads Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Herci-
govina and Macedonia         Roads                148.0       67.5
1756    1979   Zagrebacka Banka               Croatia ';ava
Drainage             51.0       50.1
1759    1979   Road Organization of           Earthquake Rehab-
Montenegro                    ilitation-
Highways             21.0       12.9
1768    1979   Port of Bar                    Earthquake Rehab-
il itation-Port
of Bar               50.0       47.7
1769    1979   Railway Organization           Earthquake Rehab-
of Montenegro                 ilitation-
Railways             14.0       11.6



- 33 -
ANNEX-II
Page 3 of 12
USt million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year              Borrower(s)            Purpose            Bank  Undisbursed
1801    1980   Vojvodjanska Banka             Third Agricultural
Credit               86.0       83.7
1819    1980   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia,
Serbia and Vojvodina        Roads                 125.1)    125.0
1909    1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Fifth Industrial
Credit              50.0       50.0
1910    1980   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fifth Industrial
Credit              30.0       30.0
1911    1980   Investiciona Banka             Fifth Industrial
Titograd                      Credit               20.0       20.0
1912    1980   Stopanska Banka                Fifth Industrial
Skopje                        Credit               10.0       10.0
1951    1980   Investbanka                    Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    87.0        87.0
1977a/  1980   Pristina Railway
Transport Organization    Railways                 34.0       34.0
1993b/  1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    90.0        90.0
2039c/  1981   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Agriculture            80.0      _80.0
Total (less cancellation)                                3,012.7*    967.25
of which has been repaid                                  397.4
Total now outstanding                                    2,615.5
Amount sold                              9.2
of which: Amount repaid                 9.0                  0.2
Total now held by Bank                                   2,615.1
Total undisbursed                                                     967.25
a/ Declared effective on November 16, 1981.
b/ Declared effective on December 23, 1981.
c/ Declared effective on January 6, 1982.
*   In addition, a $41 million loan for a Kosovo Water Supply Project was
approved on November 10, 1981, and signed on December 14, 1981.



- 34 -
ANNEX_II
Page 4 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF_IFC_INVESTMENTS (as of September_30, 1981)
Fiscal                                          Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year             Obligor                       Business           Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment               Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia           Corporation         -      2.0      2.0
1970/  Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.  Automotive
1972/                                          Industry         12.4      0.6    13.0
1980
1971/  Tovarna Automobilov in Motoriev    Automotive
1980     Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt   Industry              9.2      0.9    10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972/  FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-           Automotive
1980     Benz A.G.                             Industry         16.3      0.8    17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                         Tires              12.5      2.5    15.0
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira           Pulp and Paper   70.9        -       70.9
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO               Special Steel     10.0      -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                         Cement Plant      10.0      -       10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                             Steel             50.0      -       50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute         Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                       Processing         4.0      2.4     6.4
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin  Pulp and Paper
Products         15.6      2.6    18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                           Hermetic
Compressors       7.0      -        7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka                      Tourism            21.0     -       21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                          Machinery          18.7      -       18.7
1980   Eight Republican/Provincial            Small-Scale
Banks                                Enterprises       30.4     -       30.4
Total Gross Commitments                                 288.0    11.8   299.8
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                              154.3      5.2   159.5
Total commitments held by IFC                           133.7      6.6   140.3
Total Undisbursed                                       _81.9      0.8    82.7



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (as of September 30, 1981) 1/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30,_1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The main dam is completed and the reservoir is filled. About
one-third of the irrigation network bas been completed with the remainder
expected to be completed by end-1982. Project costs have been substantially
above appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being provided by
the Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. After a delay of about
five years, a law has been enacted by the Kosovo Government which is
assisting in the provision of agricultural extension services to the
individual sector. In the absence of land consolidation, on farm
development and use of sprinkler irrigation have been very slow. Recently,
organizational arrangements and revised schedule of implementation were
agreed upon to expedite utilization of water by industry and agriculture.
Loan_916 Naftagas-Pipeline:  US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Effective Date: _March 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
For a variety of reasons substantial delays occurred during the
implementation of this project (cost overruns, administrative hurdles, poor
management, etc.). In December 1979, the Government requested and the Bank
eventually agreed to entrust implementation of the pipeline in Serbia to a
different borrower. The loan was divided into two tranches, Naftagas Gas
Unit (NGU) being in charge of the pipeline in Vojvodina, and Butangas of the
pipeline in Serbia. The amendment of the loan was approved by the Bank in
November 1980, and became effective in May 1981. The pipelines in Serbia
are now under construction. Practically all the bid evaluation reports for
Butangas have been approved by the Bank and contracts have been awarded.
The main component of the project left to be implemented by NGU is telemetry
and control equipment for both loans 916-YU and 1264-YU.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan 1026 Fourth_Railway: _US$93.0 million Loan_of July_10, 1974: Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date:; June 30, 1981.
The loan has been closed and the small residual balance is being
cancelled.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975;_Closing_Date: December 31, 1981
All major port civil works are complete!d except the grain silo
facility, edible oil reservoirs and the railway marshalling yard. Final
completion of these items had been expected by end 1979. However, the
earthquakes of April/May 1979 in Montenegro resulted in severe damage to
port installations, particularly in the older parts of the port, caused
further delays but works are now proceeding. Closing date has been extended
to December 31, 1981 to permit completion of works.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water_Supply and Wastewater:  US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; _Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have
put construction about two years behind schedule. However, project now
progressing satisfactorily. All funds are expected to be committed by
closing date.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date:  November 3, 1976L_Closing Date;  December 31, 1981.
The regional development study undertaken under this project
provided the basis for the preparation of the Second Morava Regional
Development Project (Loan No. 1951-YU). The flood control and water quality
studies are progressing satisfactorily after initial delays in selecting
consultants. Construction of the Vrutci Dam is about 2 years behind
schedule due to foundation, design and construction problems which, however,
are being overcome by intensified efforts of the borrower in the supervision
of the contractor and consultation with the panel of experts. Construction
is completed on the principal parts of the Cacak and Titovo Uzice
components, the remainder are well advanced. Feasibility studies on sewage
treatment plants in Cacak and Titovo Uzice have been completed. The pilot
irrigation components which were delayed pending the establishment of
suitable monitoring arrangements, are underway. The creation of the
Republic Water Community of Interest was delayed (due to the longer than
anticipated process of seeking agreement among alL the Yugoslav parties
concerned on the structure of the organization. Staffing has been
strengthened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the
Republic Water Community of Interest.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan_1263_ Sarajevo Water Supply__and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June
8, 1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1982.
Construction of the water distribution system and sew-.ge
collection is progressing satisfactorily and should be completed by m-c
1981.  Construction of the sewerage treatment plan is underway and expected
to be completed by early 1982.
Loan 1264  Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective_Date:_May_31,_1977 Closing_Date:_June 30, 1982.
The gas transmission line has been completed and initital
deliveries of gas began in December 1979, one year later than originally
planned. Difficulties in finalizing contracts for the supply of gas were
the major cause of delay. Construction of the gas distribution network and
high presssure loop-line around the city of Sarajevo is proceeding
satisfactorily. Naftagas still has to conclude contract for telemetry and
control equipment.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed.
Disbursements are, however, somewhat behind appraisal estimates. Closing
Date was extended by one year to December 31, 1981 to meet payments under
existing orders and letters of credit.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977;_Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Construction of the dam, intake weir and feeder canal are
progressing satisfactorily and overall project progress is about one year
behind schedule. Awards of other procurement contracts are underway and it
is expected that by mid-1981 all major contracts would have been awarded. A
demonstration irrigation farm of 32 ha involving 28 farmers has been highly
successful.
Loan 1370 Monteneg_ro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan of
March 10, 1977; Effective Date:_July_27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Progress of all major works is satisfactory. The winery has been
completed and the cold store equipment has been procured but construction of
civil works is slightly behind schedule. Plantations of vineyards and
orchards are on schedule. Irrigation works are nearly completed. The loan
is about 95% committed and about 70% disbursed.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date
June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans for all seven agro-industrial sub-projects have been
approved by the Borrower and loan proceeds for the individual sector have
also been fully committed. Progress in project implementation is slower
than expected due primarily to slow processing of bids and contract
finalization.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The loan has been closed and the small residual balance is being
cancelled.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Contracts totalling about 90% of the loan amount have been let and
physical execution, while slower than expected at appraisal, is underway on
the most critical sub-stations and lines. The tariff study and most of the
least cost development study have been submitted to the Bank. Delays
continue to be experienced regarding management studies, revised
interrepublc agreement on joint operations, remaining portion of least cost
development study and securing of foreign financing for balance of items to
be imported.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
All participating banks have identified the main investors. The
loan is fully committed. All agroindustry investments are in the
procurement or implementation phase. The project is about one and a half
years behind appraisal estimates. Closing date has been postponed to
December 1982. Measures to speed-up disbursements and overall project
implementation are being discussed with the partic:ipating banks. The
project monitoring and evaluation system is working satisfactorily.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Bank financed investments are progressing well. The level of
compensation payments is however increasing and substantial tariff increases
have failed to keep pace with inflation. Disbursements are on schedule.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Croatia section opened to traffic ahead of schedule. Slovenia and
Serbia sections expected to be completed by fall 1981.
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power: US$73 million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracts for equipment totalling about 80% of the loan amount
have been let. Physical progress is satisfactory and relatively problem
free. However, Part B of the project (Mostar power plant), which is not
Bank financed, has been delayed primarily due to additional studies needed
concerning site geology and additional time needed to complete financing.
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date: November 16, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The loan is almost fully committed. Disbursements are slightly
behind appraisal estimates mainly because of the delay in the approval of a
special project (lead smelter).
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit: $20.0 million each
Loans of July 26, 1978; Effective Date: November 16, 1978;
Closing Dates: December 31, 1982.
The loans are almost fully committed. Disbursements for Loans
1612 and 1614 are well ahead of the disbursements expected at appraisal,
while Loan 1613 is behind appraisal estimate. However, disbursements for
Loan 1613 is expected to accelerate as a result of recent changes in the
Borrower's procedures.
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation: US$82 million Loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
Construction of the dam, alimentation canal, main canal and
irrigation network are underway. Thermal pipeline, diversion tunnel and
coffer dam construction have been completed. The project is proceeding
almost on schedule with completion of the dam scheduled for December 1981,
and that of the net work by June 1982.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Sub-project approval and processing of tender documents have been
proceeding more slowly than expected at appraisal. About 80% of loan has
been committed but disbursements are behind schedule. Cost overruns may
necessitate a reduction in scope of the project which is under construction.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway: US$148 million Loan of April 9, 1979; Effective
Date: August 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The five participating Republics/Provinces have awarded 63
construction contracts, 40 of which have Bank financing. Disbursements are
somewhat ahead of schedule, except that for the Autonomous Province of
Kosovo.
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage: US$51 million Loan of October 11, 1979;
Effective Date: April 17, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Action for award of contracts for equipment and construction of
civil works is in an advanced stage. Studies on subsurface drainage in
experimental plots are in progress. Progress on civil works, although
somewhat behind schedule, is satisfactory. Disbursements are were behind
appraisal estimates but are expected to improve when supply of equipment and
goods can begin against the constracts awarded.
Loan 1759 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Highways: US$21 million
Loan of September 21, 1979; Effective Date: December 19, 1979;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
Project close to schedule, emergency works completed and
contracting for restoration works completed with some works in progress.
Loan 1768 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Port of Bar: US$50 million
Loan of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation about nine months; behind schedule due to
delays in preparation of final designs and bidding documents.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan 1769 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Railways: US$14 million loan
of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Disbursements of about $2.3 million for urgent reconstruction
works have been made. Contracting procedures for remaining works have been
slower than expected largely as result of complicated engineering design for
repairs to badly damaged tunnel.
Loan 1801 Third Agricultural Credit: US$86 million Loan of February 29, 1980
Effective Date: August 25, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
About 50% of the loan has been committed. Several agroindustries
sub-projects have been identified in various republics. Some agroindustries
in Serbia and Kosovo are being implemented. The agroindustries study is in
progress.
Loan 1819 Eleventh Highway; US$125 million Loan of April 23, 1980; Effective
Date: August 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Slovenia and Serbia have completed pre-qualification of
contractors, called for bids and completed analysis. Serbia is ready to
award contracts, Croatia and Vojvodina contracts have been approved by
Bank. Consultant for toll study has been selected. CRO and ITE
co-sponsoring Highway Safety Conference in Yugoslavia October, 1981.
Co-financing was obtained for an amount of US$110 million in October, 1980.
Loans 1909, 1910, 1911 and 1912 Fifth Industrial Credit: $50.0, $30.0, $20.0
and $10.0 million, respectively, Loans of February 9, 1981;
Effective Date: August 17, 1981; Closing Dates: October 31, 1984
Sub-project identification and preparation is at an advanced stage
and a number of sub-loans have already been approved.
Loan 1951 Morava Regional Development II: $87 million loan of April 13,
1981; Effective Date: August 28, 1981; Closing Date: December
31, 1986
Out of 12 agroindustry sub-projects for which bids were invited,
bids have been opened for 11, and award of contract made for 6.
Loan 1977 Kosovo Railway: $34.0 Million loan of May 15, 1981; Effective
Date: November 16, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The loan became effective on November 16, 1981.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loan 1993 Kosovo Agricultural Development: $90 million loan of June 15,
1981; Effective Date: December 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
Bids, as a result of ICB, have been received for 10 of the 12
agro-industries sub-projects. The two remaining agro-industries
sub-projects are being reviewed.  Individual sector sub-borrowers have
committed to make investments in 200 ha of hazel nut plantations.
Loan 2039 Macedonia III Agricultural Development: $80 million of July 23,
1981; Effective Date: January 6, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
With all social sector vineyard (1400 ha) and 46% (1150 ha) of
orchards already committed, project implementation (aided by retroactive
financing), has made a useful start.



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetables of Key Events
(a)  Project first presented to Bank:            June 1977.
(b)  Time taken by PBS to prepare project:   32 months (from August 1978
to April 1981).
(c)  Agency which prepared the project:          Privredna Banka Sarajevo
(PBS).
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:   March 1980.
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:             May 16, 1981.
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:                 March 11, 1982.
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:              August 31, 1982.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
Retroactive financing of expenditures of up to US$3.5 million
is recommended to permit ordering of agro-industries equipment
(para. 70).
Section III: Special Conditions
Borrower to provide, exclusively to the project during its first
four years, not less than four man months per year of supervision
time (para. 54).






To Karlovac           / To Zagreb                  T      TO Zogreb                   /18                 To Osjekirt    I19                   NV SAD
t t t *. 51 Brgd / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r_ , ~V.DANUBE R   2 
t yBos Dubica                                   -                                                                                                           A - r  J  die p
) Bos. NoelBo NGro)Vs
SX bS a > X A, pndAutonos. NMirovico
dor                  Derven aGr oic                                                                 .    .           BLGAD
bVii ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ an6                                                      itroOJEC                              CEV
|E:  i.r.'   t  W    %:ya;?   f    W                                                              S                                     .;-=,--e,>~~~~~~~~~Shprjec Lcaton
PRoJecTCOMPONENTS. \s Krupn dAries of R
onski  ANJA LUKA                          '!','Brcko~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ndAuonmos roine
anicci                                              -        p           hiDhways
aglaj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W,al,k sahsh,,yq
|||  FLOUR MILL        KORCULA          PEUESAC?       %       4, 3     .          )t      N   E t G<R  O    - . <           4,   >\HerzegovZnvidovi 1                J .,
S   PoPavoPolJE tRR:GATta   w     2     =       >         >                 J                NiRsici             V     A D~~~~~~~viic  ARICULTURA     DEVELPMEN
rs _; <>)Treb v\; - Q +( n~~~~~~~~ajero Z osvorn  3
Subprojec 2Jo'ot oati o,n a 
ZEN ICAt                                                                    and Au3° Herceg ---,,lnternr.1W ono aous Provincets
EVO                                  Tunn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ryelsrmoere,drenn
Riversdna.
ib ni                                                                                                         D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ onams(Oe9r
AORtA TCot   tContour in meters
neg .O K-o.....Io1
T~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--BudreoRpiicod A   NA    aeoroI
to                        J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rtt                                                      0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W1d   -     f
17     iS           Hercegnovi               19~~~~~~~~~~~   ---International bou  Or-OS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRbTCE  '-I~~Ih






IBRD 16025
/                                               2                                  YUGOSLAVIA
'/7N                                               tBOSNIA - HERZEGOVINA
A1  I                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-~~~~~   1~~~~~~~  / ~~~~~POPOVO POLJE IRRIGATION COMPONENT
If  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
/  IA                                                                           Urns~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,, of Ar.o under each Typphon
© Num,ber of Typhon Blocks
D7~r                                                                                                               Typhon Bun
''>5   -         r\                                                                                      s   Undergroud Pressure Pipeline
..>   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)Pumping Station No, I
Alici    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~   ~Pumping Statio Nofl
'7   Jo                                                                                         Visa ra~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D-ge  Channelsk
CC  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V  oe
-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
Irohsmsa/erm,  Visa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,P
LL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N  BIoSNIA                                                                                         Rou~
HEk3EG G INA!COP'~  ~u
nm,rrms  4N {MONTENEGBRC  >             s      =      ~       r ',us         .o                                                       N'    /          07r
55  im lYtios  ~     h-                      uro,.,r.u        ~                                                                                  C, 5AL



