LOAN NUMBER 2136 YU
Loan Agreement
(Bosnia-Herzegovina Agricultural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND. DEVELOPMENT
and
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO-UDRUZENA BANKA
Dated               o             , 1982


﻿LOAN sUMBER 2136 YU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  7e7         c2 7            , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BA1K FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO-UDRUZENA BANKA
(hereinafter called the Borrower), acting pursuant to its
Self-Management Agreement and Statutes, both on its own behalf
and on behalf of its Basic Banks (as this term is hereinafter
defined).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (herein-
after called the Guarantor), in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to guarantee the Loan as to payment of principal, interest and
other charges; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions), namely that the following subparagraph (d) is added
to Section 3.04 of the General Conditions:
"(d)  The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or
in substitution .for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.04."


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Self-Management Agreemerrt of the Borrower" means
the Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower, dated December 27,
1977, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(b) "Statutes of the Borrower" means the Statutes of the
Borrower, dated December 27, 1977, as amended to the date of
this Agreement;
(c) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by the Borrower out of Its own funds and out of the proceeds of
the Loan in accordance with Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(d) "Sub-borrower" means a beneficiary of a Sub-loan
which may be any form oZ social sector organization;
(e) "Investment Project" means a specific investment project
to be carried out by a Sub-borrower utilizing the proceeds of
a Sub-loan;
(f) "Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project"
means the statement of lending and investment operations and
policies for the Project set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agree-
ment, as such statement may be amended from time to time with the
prior approval of the Bank;
(g) "Dinars" and the letters "Din" mean the currency of
the Guarantor;
(h) "Social Accounting Service" means the Slu9ba Dru9tvenog
Knjigovodstva referred to in Article 77 and in paragraph (5) of
Article 281 of the Guarantor's Constitution; and
(I) "Basic Bank" means any bank which is, or shall become,
a party to the Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower, pursuant
to the pertinent provisions thereof.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank, for amounts disbursed (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
for disbursements required to be made) by the Borrower under
Sub-loans in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and
services required for Investment Projects and to be financed under
the Loan Agreement pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 5
hereto.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan chall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1987, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to five hundred seventeen
thousand two hundred forty-one dollars ($517,241). The fee shall
be payable in such currency or currencies as the Bank shall
specify. In the event that the Bank shall not have received full
payment of the fee by the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required for the full payment of the fee in the
currency or currencies specified for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan withdrawn pursuant to Section 2.02 hereof in accor-
dance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement as such Schedule shall be amended from time to
time by the Bank to extent required to: (i) conform in relevant
part substantially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules
applicable to Sub-loans which have been approved by the Bank;
and (ii) take into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI
of the General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower
under Section 2.10 of this Agreement; provided that any such
amendments to the amortization schedule permitted hereunder shall
not authorize repayments of the principal amount of the Loan
beyond the latest repayment date set forth in such Schedule 3.
Repayments due hereunder shall be made on June 1 and December 1
in each year. Such amendments of said Schedule 3 shall include
amendments to the table of premiums on prepayments, if necessary.
Section 2.10. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a Sub-loan or any part
thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise dis-
posed of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall promptly
notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next follow-
ing interest payment date, together with the premiums specified
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof
under Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from
the Loan Account in respect of such Sub-loan or part thereof and
not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts
corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or
maturities of the Sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.


﻿-5-
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate agricultural, technical, administrative and financial
policies and practices and in accordance with the Statement of
Operations and Policies for the Project, and shall provide or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan by the Borrower will be
made on financial terms and conditions consIstent with the State-
ment of Operations and Policies for the Project whereby the
Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the Sub-borrower
or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including, in the case
of any such Sub-loan, the right of the Borrower to:
(i) require the Sub-borrower to carry out its In-
vestment Project and to operate the facilities
constructed thereunder with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
agricultural, technical, administrative and finan-
cial policies and practices and to maintain ade-
quate records;
(ii) require that: (A) the works and goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and (B) such works and goods shall be
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Invest-
ment Project;
(iii)  inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, buildings, property,
equipment and construction included in the Invest-
ment Project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;


﻿-6-
(iv) require that: (A) the Sub-borrower shall take out
and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with appropriate business
practice; and (B) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Sub-borrower to
replace or repair such goods;
(v) obtain all such information as the Bank or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the admiXistration, operations
and financial condition oi- the Sub-borrower;
(vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower
to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure
by such Sub-borrower to perform its obligations
under its contract with the Borrower and, in appro-
priate cases, to premature the Sub-loan; and
(vii) require the Sub-borrower: (A) to have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, state-
ments of income and expenses and related state-
ments) for each fiscal year audited in accordance
with appropriate accounting principles consistently
applied by the Social Accounting Service or another
competent and experienced independent accounting
organization; (B) to furnish to the Borrower as
soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for each
such year as so audited and the report of such
audit; and (C) to furnish to the Borrower such
other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of the Sub-borrower as
the Borrower shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights, in relation
to each Investment Project, in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with


﻿-7-
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost
thereof, the amount and sources of financing provided by the
Borrower, disbursements, repayments, interest and other charges
on such financing, including the Sub-loan therefor); and (b)
furnish to the Bank semi-annual reports on the implementation of
all aspects of the Project (including any pertinent general
information on agricultural and economic policy measures affecting
the implementation of the Project, the issues arising from such
policy measures and any related remedial actions which may be
required), in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request and
within 45 days of the close of the six-month period concerned.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, its
procedures, operations and records, the Investment Projects and
the Sub-loans.
(b) In order to assist Sub-borrowers in implementation
of Investment Projects, the Borrower shall provide technical
services for not less than four man-months per year, or such other
period as may be agreed with the Bank, through assignment of its
own staff or, to the extent deemed necessary by the Bank, through
employment of qualified and experiencea consultants under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) Upon approval of the award of any contract for works,
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nation-
ality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived


﻿-8-
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times continue to
conduct its operations and affairs, including the carrying out of
the Project, in accordance with appropriate administrative and
financial policies and practices, with qualified and experienced
management and staff, and in accordance with its Self-Management
Agreement and Statutes.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower unconditionally undertakes,
whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds
available to any of the Sub-borrowers will be inadequate to meet
the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of any of
the Investment Projects, to make arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank promptly to provide, or cause to be provided, any such
Sub-borrower with such funds in foreign or local currencies as
needed to meet such expenditures.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower shall establish and main-
tain separate accounts for the Project and shall record in such
accounts all amounts disbursed or received for or in connection
with the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing expenditures for crop establishment
materials for Part B (2) (c) (ii) of the Project on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account with respect
to Sub-category (2) (b) of the table set out in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 hereto on the basis of certificates of expenditures,


﻿and shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall: (a) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) and its records supporting
certificates of expenditures referred to in Section 5.03 (b)
hereof for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by the Social
Accounting Service or another competent and experienced inde-
pendent auditing organization acceptable to the Bank; (b) furnish
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (i) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (ii)
the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, includ-
ing a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of such
certificates of expenditures showing whether the proceeds of the
Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis o: such certifi-
cates have been used for the purpose for which they were provided;
and (c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to timi reasonably request.
Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower, as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and that in the creation of any
such lien express provision will be made to that effect at no cost
to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on
any assets of the Borrower, as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the *date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall take steps satisfactory to
the Bank to protect itself against the risk of losses resulting
from changes in the r.tes of exchange between the currencies
(including Dinars) used in its lending and borrowing operations.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance Gf maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable.
(b) A change shall have been made in the Self-Management
Agreements or Statutes of the Borrower which would materially and
adversely affect the financial condition or operations of the
Borrower or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that any of the events specified
in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date            217       is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section  2.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 11 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTB!FRAD                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Privredna Banka Sarajevo - Udrugena Banka
Obala 19
71000 Sarajevo
Yugoslavia
Cable address:                       Telex:
PRIVRED BANK                        41289 YU PBS
Sarajevo                            41449 YU PBS
Sarajevo, Yugoslavia                41450 YU PBS
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 12 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
By  Regional Vice President
Europe, Mi dle East and North Africa
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO-UDRUZENA BANKA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works and               29,700,000       100% of for-
equipment to be                                eign expendi-
financed under Sub-                            tures and 40%
loans under Part A                             of local ex-
of the Project                         -       penditures
(2) Civil works and
equipment to be
financed under the
Sub-loan for Part B
of the Project:
(a) Equipment for             1,500,000        100% of for-
Part B(l)(a) and                          eign expendi-
(b) and (2)                               tures and
of the Project                            100% of
local expen-
ditures (ex-
factory)
(b) Civil works for           3,245,000        100% of for-
Part B (1)(a), and                        eign expendi-
(c) and (2)(b)                            tures and 35%
of the Project                            of local ex-
and materials for                          penditures
Part B(2)(c)
of the Project
(c) Equipment for                35,000        100%
Part B(2)(d) of
the Project.


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(3) Fee                             517,241       Amount due
(4) Unallocated                       2,759
TOTAL              35,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied mn or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an


﻿- 15 -
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $3,500,000,
may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of .ayments
made for such expenditures for equipment before that date but
after December 31, 1981; and
(b) in respect of expenditures to be financed under any
Sub-loan, unless the Bank shall have approved the Sub-loan.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category or Sub-category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category or Sub-category, the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category or Sub-category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category or Sub-category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category or Sub-category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Bank under the Loan Agreement, by nrtice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount. of the Loan as, in fne Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist primary agricultural
production in Bosnia-Herzegovina by providing processing and
storage facilities for such production, and to facilitate the
production of fresh fruit, wine grapes, vine rootstocks and grains
in the Popovo Polje region, by providing irrigation facilities,
on-farm equipment and buildings.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Agroindustries Sub-loans
A program of Sub-loans to finance investments in agroindus-
tries, including:
(1) replacement of two flour mills, with a combined total
annual processing capacity of about 73,200 tons of
wheat, (a) one to be located in Modrica and (b) one to
be located in Tuzla;
(2) a poultry slaughterhouse with an annual processing
capacity of about 10 million broilers;
(3) a vegetable oil extraction plant with an annual process-
ing capacity of about 77,000 tons of oil seeds, includ-
ing a storage silo of about 50,000 tons capacity;
(4) a pickling plant with capacity for preserving about
2,700 tons of vegetables annually; and
(5) a vegetable cold store with about 7,200 cubic meters
storage area, including a vegetable freezing plant with
an annual intake capacity of 5,300 tons.
Part B:   Sub-loan for Popovo PolJe Agricultural Development
A Sub-loan for the first phase of improvements to be made for
agricultural production in Popovo Polje region, including:
(1) the irrigation of an area of about 1,200 hectares,
through:


﻿- 17 -
(a) installation and placing into service of an under-
ground irrigation pipeline of about 22 kilometers,
with two pumping stations of about 0.3 and 0.8
cubic meters/second capacity, respectively,
two transformers and about 5 kilometers of trans-
mission lines;
(b) provision of overground on-farm irrigation equip-
ment; and
(c) construction of about 25 kilometers of roads
and facilities for on-farm irrigation operation and
maintenance; and
(2) the development of on-farm facilities, through:
(a) provision of tractors and other machinery for
on-farm use;
(b) construction of, and equipment for, on-farm
buildings;
(c) clearance and levelling of land for agricultural
production, and provision of orchard establishment
material, including (i) fruit tree and vineyard
root stocks and (ii) trellising material and
chemicals; and
(d) installation of an experimental drainage plot of
about 10 hectares fitted with tile drains.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1986.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)**
December 1, 1985                                 290,000
June 1, 1986                                     563,000
December 1, 1986                                 696,000
June 1, 1987                                     806,000
December 1, 1987                                  940,000
June 1, 1988                                    1,050,000
December 1, 1988                                1,130,000
June 1, 1989                                   1,210,000
December 1, 1989                                1,270,000
June 1, 1990                                   1,300,000
December 1, 1990                                1,350,000
June 1, 1991                                    1,400,000
December 1, 1991                                1,450,000
June 1, 1992                                    1,500,000
December 1, 1992                                1,550,000
June 1, 1993                                   1,590,000
December 1, 1993                                1,700,000
June 1, 1994                                    1,790,000
December 1, 1994                                1,950,000
June 1, 1995                                   2,020,000
December 1, 1995                               2,180,000
June 1, 1996                                   2,280,000
December 1, 1996                               2,445,000
June 1, 1997                                   2,540,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant to
the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
**   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The follnwing percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  2.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                  4.65%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before a,, urity                                 8.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen years
before maturity                                  10.05%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                 11.60%


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender documents relating thereto, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   In the event that registration in Yugoslavia shall be neces-
sary after a foreign contractor or supplier has been notified that
he will be awarded a contract, the Borrower shall facilitate the
registration.
4.   Contracts for civil works and goods shall include a provision
allowing non-Yugoslav contractors and suppliers to convert into
foreign exchange and to repatriate a reasonable portion of con-
tract payments, and to import equipment and specialized manpower
as required to carry out their services.
5.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other


﻿- 21 -
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the ewaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Yugoslavia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Yugoslavia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Yugoslavia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 22 -
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works included in Parts A and B (1) of the
Project and goods included in Part B (1)(a) and (2)(a) of the
Project, other than pumping station equipment, may be procured on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accor-
dance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Goods included in
Part B (2)(a) of the Project shall be procured in not more than
three packages.
2.   Pumping station equipment included in Part B (1)(a) of
the Project and goods included in Part B (1)(b) and (2)(c)(i) of
the Project may be procured through limited international tender-
ing procedures acceptable to the Bank, on the basis of price
quotations solicited from at least three suppliers.
3.   Buildings and material included in Part B (2)(b) and
(2)(c)(ii) of the Project may be procured through procedures
acceptable to the Bank on the basis of price quotations solicited
from at least three contractors or suppliers.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods to be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together


﻿- 23 -
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, or price
quotations as the case may be recommendations for award and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by


﻿- 24 -
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Statement of Operations and
Policies for the Project
A.   Sub-loan Processing
1.   Registration
Each Investment Project shall be registered by the Borrower
upon receipt of the Sub-borrower's application therefor.
2.   Appraisal and Eligibility
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall prepare an appraisal report for each Investment Project
taking into account the following:
(a) the technical feasibility, financial viability, commer-
cial soundness, economic justification and availability of mar-
kets;
(b) the generation of sufficient cash flow to cover debt
service, legal claims, legally required allocations to the enter-
prise's depreciation, reserve and reinvestment needs, and the need
to achieve financial and economic rates of return of at least 12%;
if the financial or the economic rate of return is calculated to
be less than 12%, additional justification acceptable to the Bank
will be required;
(c) the creditworthiness of the Sub-borrower; and
(d) appropriate consideration given to the choice of tech-
nology, with preference accorded to mc :e labor-intensive methods
as opposed to 'capital-intensive and automated technology and to
the consequences of such a choice on the investment cost of
Investment Projects.
3.   Review of Investment Projects and Approvals
of Sub-loans
On the basis of the appraisal referred to in paragraph 2
of Part A above, Investment Projects shall be reviewed and
the proposed Sub-loans therefor shall be approved as follows:


﻿- 26 -
(a) the Borrower shall submit to the Bank all proposed
Investment Projects and appraisal reports thereof for review and
all proposed Sub-loans therefor for approval;
(b) the Borrower shall not approve a Sub-loan, or changes in
an already-approved Sub-loan, before the Bank has reviewed the
Investment Project and the appraisal report pertaining thereto and
has given its approval to the Sub-loan therefor and any changes
therein; and
(c) as part of the review of an Investment Project and prior
to approving any Sub-loan, the Borrower shall ensure that:
(i) contributions to Investment Projects are available
as set forth in paragraph 1 of Part B hereunder
as and when required to enable the Sub-borrower to
carry out its Investment Project in a timely
manner; and
(ii) the requirements (as and when applicable) set out
in Section 3.02 (a) (i), (ii), (iv) and (vii) of
the Loan Agreement are fulfilled.
B.   Terms of Sub-loans
1.   Contribution to Cost of Investment Projects
(a) Unless the Borrower shall otherwise determine on the
basis of the financial situation of the Sub-borrowers, the Sub-
borrowers shall be required to contribute not less than 20% of the
cost of each Investment Project. The Borrower shall be required
to contribute, or shall cause to be contributed, the remainder of
such cost.
(b) The amount of the proceeds of the Loan used for a Sub-
loan for an Investment Project included in Part A of the Project
shall not exceed 40% of the estimated cost of such Investment
Project, or such other percentage as may be agreed by the Bank.
2.   Rate of Interest
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, Sub-loans shall carry
interest on the principal amount outstanding from time to time,
calculated at the following rates:


﻿- 27 -
(a) for the portion of a Sub-loan financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, an annual rate of not less than 12.85%;
and
(b) on the portion of a Sub-loan financed out of re-
sources other than the resources for accelerating the development
of the less developed Republics and regions provided by the
Federal Fund and the Republic Fund, or the proceeds of the Loan,
the annual rate charged by the Borrower on agroindustries invest-
ments at the time of signature of the Sub-loan agreement, but not
less than 15%.
3.   Repayment
(a) Sub-loans shall be repayable in the same currencies
used for the purpose of repaying to the Bank the corresponding
principal amount of the Loan. The risk of loss from changes in
exchange rates on currencies borrowed and repaid under the
Sub-loan shall be borne by the Sub-borrower.
(b) The fee to be paid by the Borrower under Section 2.05
of this Agreement shall be charged to the Sub-borrower.
(c) The grace and amortization periods for the repayment of
principal of the portion of Sub-loans financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be determined from the projected cash flow of
the Investment Project financed. Unless otherwise agreed with the
Bank:
(i) the amortization period shall not exceed 15 years
and the grace period shall not exceed five years;
(ii) the amortization     schedule  shall provide for
approximately equal semiannual, or more frequent,
aggregate payments of principal and interest or
approximately equal semiannual, or more frequent,
payments of principal; and
(iii) the Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its
prior approval, any substantial changes proposed to
be made by the Borrower in respect of the repayment
provision of any Sub-loan.


﻿- 28 -
C.   Supervision
The Borrower shall supervise the use of the proceeds of
Sub-loans in accordance with appropriate banking, financial,
technical and agricultural practices. Such supervision shall
include inter alia periodic visits (at least at six-month inter-
vals) to the Investment Projects to ensure that the proceeds of
the Sub-loans are properly used and that satisfactory progress is
made in the carrying out of the Investment Projects. After each
visit the Borrower shall prepare, and make available to the Bank
if so requested by the Bank, a supervision report for each Invest-
ment Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    4d    day of         198   .
FOR SECRETARY


