Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
. JN     3 / s  a  R a,l               Report No. P-5165-RCI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED
LOAN OF US$100.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOR AN
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
DECEMBER 1, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit  =  CFA Franc  1/
Annual Averages, CFAF per US Dollar
1980 - CFAF 211
1985 - CFAF 490
1986 - CFAF 347
1987 - CFAF 347
1988 - CFAF 275
1989 - CFAF 312
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 meter (m)  = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 cubic meter (m3) = 35.3 cubic feet (cuft)
1 liter (1) = 0.26 US gallons (US gal)
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.20 pounds (lbs)
1 metric tonne (t) = 2,205 pounds (lb)
Petroleum
1 tonne oil equivalent (toe) = 41.9 Gigajoules (CJ)
1 tonne crude oil - approx. 7.3 barrels (bbl)
1 barrel oil per day (b/d) = approx. 49.5 tonnes per year (t/yr)
Electricity
kVA = Kilovolt ampere
kW = Kilowatt
kWh = Kilowatt hour
GWh (Gigawatt hour) = 1,000,000 kWh
kV (kilovolt) = 1,000 Volts
MW (Megawatt) = 1,000 kW
1/ The CFA Franc exchange rate is fixed at a rate of 60:1 with the French Franc. The latter is a
floating currency.



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB           African Development Bank
BNDA           Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole (Agricultural
Development Bank)
CAM            Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (Debt Amortization Fund)
CAISSTAB       Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Produits
Agricoles (Agricultural Exports Stabilization Fund)
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French Economic
Cooperation Fund)
CFAF           Francs de la Communaute Financiere Africaine (Franc of the
African Financial Community)
CIDA           Canada International Development Agency
DCGTx          Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux (Office for
supervision and control of public works)
EECI           Energie Electrique de la Cote d'Ivoire (Electric Utility
Company of Cote d'Ivoire)
EIB            European Investment Bank
ESAL           Energy Sector Adjustment Loan
ESMAP          Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GESTOCI        Societe de Gestion des Stocki Petroliers de Cote d'Ivoire
(State Petroleum Product Storage Company)
GNP            Gross National Product
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
MYRA           Multi-Year Rescheduling Agreement
PETROCI        Societe Nationale d'Operations Petrolieres (State Petroleum
Exploration and Production Company)
PNE            Plan National de l'Energie (National Energy Plan)
PPGD           Public and Publicly Guaranteed Debt
SDR            Special Drawing Right
SIR            Societe Ivoirienne de Raffinage (Refining Company of Cote
d'Ivoire)
SODEFOR        Societ  de Developpement Forestiere (Forestry Development
Company)
UC             Unit of Account
UMOA           Union Monetaire Ouest-Africaine (West African Monetary
Union)
VAT            Value Added Tax
FISCAL YEAR
Government : January 1 - December 31
Energy Sector Enterprises : October 1 - September 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN   S M T   EO M  .  .  .  .  .  .  .S.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  i
PART I, THE ECONOMY  . . . .......................................................   1
Background   .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   . .   . ..     .      . .. .  . ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
Launching the Structural Adjustment Process (1981-86)   . . .  2
Recent Developments (1987-89)   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
The Short-term: Public Finance and Structural Reforms  . . . . . .  4
Reducing the Fiscal Deficit .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Sectoral Reforms.   . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Social Dimensions of Adjustment   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Towards a Resumption of Growth   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   9
Overview of the Medium-Term Adjustment Program  . . . . . . .  9
Towards Implementing the Medium-Term Program  . . . . . . .   10
Economic Prospects and Financing Requirements  . . . . . . . . .   12
The Short-Term    . ..............           . . . . .. 12
The Medium-Term   ........... ......    . . .. 13
Financing Requirements    9999 .999.9...       ....9.9.9.9.9..   13
PART II.  THE ENERGY SECTOR . . . . . . . .. ...  15
The Role of the Energy Sector in the Adjustment Process  . . . . . 15
Sector Profile   . . . . . . . . .            . . . . . . . . . . 16
Energy Demand and Supply  . o       . . . . . .    .  . . . . . . .  17
Institutional Framework   ..........  *.* *...  .   18
Sector  Issues    .  .  .   .  .    . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   20
Iydrocarbon Exploration and Development   . . . . . . . . . . 20
Supply and Distribution of Petroleum Products   . . . . . . . 22
Electricity   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    23
Pricing and Tariffs   ........                 * 0 ****.  .   26
Planning and Supervision  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
PART III.  SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  ........... . . ....  28
Policy Framework and Sectoral Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
The Hydrocarbon Subsector  . . . .&. .  . . . . . . . . . .   . .. 32
Institutional Framework   . . . . . .*. . . .  . . . .  . . . . 33
Resource Development  ........... .........   33
Operational Efficiency and Financial Management   . . . . . . 34



The Electricity Subsector  .............  ............... 36
The Institutional Framework            ...........  .....aa    36
Resource Development and Investment Planning  . . . . . . . . 37
Operational Efficiency and Financial Management    * . . . . . 38
Pricing and Tariffs   ..   o ............. ..........    41
Sector Planning and Supervision  ...  ..................... ...  43
PART IV.  THE PROPOSED LOAN . . . ..   ..                . . .  . .  .  ...  43
Background   . . . . . . . . . . . .. ... . ... 6 .   9 *  9 * .    43
Project Cost and Financing Plan  . . . . ..    ... . . . . . .. .   44
Procurement, Disbursement and Administration   . . . . . . . . . . 45
Procurement   . . .. . . . . . . . * *   *   * * * *   * *   45
Disbursement  .....         ......... . * * . .. - 46
Accounts and Audits    99999999999999999999...   46
Monitoring and Reporting   .      ............. .. . . .        .   46
Benefits, Risks and Environmental Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Benefits    .  .  .  o  .  .    .     . .   .   .      . .    .  .    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   47
Risks   .     .   .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    48
Environmental Impact  o . . . . . . . . .o.  . . .  . . . .o.  . 48
PART V.  BARK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COTE D'IVOIRE . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           . . . . . o   .   . . o 50
Annexes
I.        Country Economic Data
II.       World Bank Group Operations
III.      Statement of Energy Policy
IV.       Program of Policy Actions
V.        Summary of PETROCI Financial Data and Projections
VI.       Summary of SIR Financial Data and Projections
VII.      Summary of EECI Financial Data and Projections
VIII.     Estimated Requirements of Technical Assistance
IX.       Supplementary Loan Data
X.        Documents Available in the Project File
Maps      IBRD Nos. 18305R2 Petroleum Exploration and Development Permits
18562   Power System



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower  :         Government of Cote d'Ivoire
Amount    s          US$100.0 million equivalent
Term      s          20 years including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Loan Description:   The proposed loan would support the Government's
comprehensive program of reforms in the energy sector,
within the framework of its ongoing structural
adjustment program. The main program objectives are:
(i) accelerating development of indigenous energy
resources, where possible with increased participation
of the private sector; (ii) improving investment
planning; (iii) increasing operational efficiency and
strengthening financial management of energy
enterprises; (iv) improved resource allocation and (v)
institutional streamlining. To this end, the program
contains the following main elements: new contractual
framework for hydrocarbon exploration and development,
review of the energy project portfolio to define an
optimum investment program, internal reorganization
and financial restructuring of energy parastatals,
introduction of more efficient flexible pricing
mechanisms, selective energy price reductions, and
clarification of Government responsibilities with
respect to policy making and supervision through
legislation and performance contracts.
Benefits and Risks:
The reforms introduced under the loan are expected to
strengthen energy policy-making capabilities, attract
private capital for resumption of oil and gas
exploration, increase returns on energy sector
investments, restore financial self-sufLlciency and
creditworthiness of energy ente )rises and, more
generally, to lead to more efficient deployment of
resources in the energy sec.tor. Direct savings as a
result of the program are estimated at about US$20
million per year, mainly in the form of efficiency
improvements in the energy enterprises; indirect
benefits, derived from more rational pricing and
investment decisions, are expected to be much higher.
The program will also have a significant benefit for
urban population of modest income and will enhance the
competitive position of the productive sectors of the
economy. Moreover, the program will have a positive
environmental impact by encouraging the substitution
of fuelwood by less harmful sources of energy.
Potential lack of cooperation among the institutions



- Li -
of the sector poses the main risk, but this is limited
by the degree of commitment already evident during
project preparation. The extent of private capital
inflow in the hydrocarbon sector remains uncertaia,
but new incentives, provided against the current
background of low oil prices, are expected to offset
this risk.
Estimated Disbursements:
The loan wou d be disbursed in three tranches over a
period of about 12 months; the first tranche of
US$30.0 million equivalent at effectiveness (January
1990); the second tranche (US$35.0 million) around
July 1990 and the third tranche (US$35.0 million) by
December 1990, upon satisfactory completion of the
corresponding parts of the reform program.
Staff Appraisal Report:
Not applicable.
MaPs:                IBRD 18305R2 Petroleum Exploration and Development
Permits
IBRD 18562   Power System



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN OF US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOR AN ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of U&$100 million to the Republic of Cate d'Ivoire
in support of the implementation of an energy sector adjustment program.
This program is described in a Statement of Energy Development Policy
received from the Government (Annex III). The loan would have a term of 20
years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable rate. In
support of the adjustment program, a loan by the African Development Bank
(US$160 million equivalent) is effective, for which two tranches (for a
total of US$120 million) have been released; the European Investment Bank
is considering a similar loan (US$30 million equivalent). Parallel
financing of investment components identified under the project is being
considered by the Canadian International Development Agency and the Caisse
Centrale de Coopiration Economique of France.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
2.        The sharp decline in Cote d'Ivoire's terms of trade, starting
the second semester of 1986, has had an important impact on the economy.
Faced with a rapidly falling real GDP and soaring public finance and
balance of payments deficits, the Government has decided to take corrective
action and, in close consultation with the IMF and the Bank, put in place
an economic program consisting of two phases. During the first phase,
which coincides with a new IMF standby arrangement ending in December 1990,
the emphasis will be on reducing the fiscal deficit and repaying domestic
and foreign arrears, while carrying out important structural reforms in key
sectors. The second phase will start in 1990-91, and will emphasize
additional measures to enhance the country's international competitiveness.
The Government has agreed, in principle, that during this second, growth-
oriented, phase it will carry out a program consisting of four basic
elements: deregulation; the rehabilitation and/or privatization of key
public enterprises; reduction in tax and tariff rates; and further cuts in
Government spending (including the wage bill). The authorities have also
agreed with Bank staff on a joint work program, which has already started;
it's aim is to provide specific recommendations for actions to be taken in
those four areas. After an initial period of continued recession, during
which domestic prices are expected to adjust downwards, this program is
expected to result in C&te d'Ivoire's return to a stable growth path, of
around 4% per annum, consistent with internal and external equilibria.
BACKGROUND
3.        With a GNP per capita of US$680 in 1988, Cote d'Ivoire ranks
well ahead of its neighbors in the West African Region. Its population of



- 2 -
11.5 million is growing at an annual rate estimated at 3.5% (1980-88),
partly because of high immigration from neighboring countri . Since
independence in 1960, the country has enjoyed a remarkable .-egree of
political stability which, combined with favorable resource endowments and
a steady inflow of cheap labor, has fostered rapid economic development.
In its Report No. 1147-IVC "Ivory Coast - A Basic Economic Report",
circulated in May 1977 (published in 1978 under the title "Ivory Coast -
the Challenge of Success"), the Bank presented an in-depth analysis of the
country's striking economic performance during its first 15 years of
independence. During the period extending to the mid 1970's, GDP grew at a
real average annual rate of 7.7%, without major internal or external
macroeconomic imbalances.
4.        During the second half of the 1970s, however, the economy of
Cote d'Ivoire experienced a succession of external shocks, including a
coffee and cocoa boom from 1975 to 1977, a rapid deterioration in the
market for these commodities from 1977 to 1979, and a sharp increase in
import prices in 1979. At the same time, macroeconomic and sectoral
policies pursued by the Government progressively deteriorated. Following
the rapid increase in the revenues of the Agricultural Stabilization Fund
(or CAISSTAB) generated by the boom in coffee and cocoa prices in the 1975-
77 period, the Government embarked on an overambitious public investment
program mainly directed toward large projects with high unit costs and low
economic returns. Public investment almost tripled in real terms between
1976 and 1980. When CAISSTAB revenues started to dwindle after 1978, the
Government relied heavily on foreign borrowing and money supply expansion
to finance its investment program, leading to a rapid acceleration of
domestic inflation. The result, with a fixed exchange rate vis-&-vis the
French Franc, was an intensification of competition from imports which was
met by increased tariff and non-tariff import restrictions. This, in turn,
induced a growing anti-export bias which furtber aggravated the
discrimination against exports, agriculture, and industry.
5.        By 1980, the overall deficits of the public sector and the
balance of payments reached 12% and 17% of GDP respectively. Medium and
long-term debt outstanding (PPG), had climbed to 42% of GDP from 18% in
1975. Economic growth ceme to a halt and Cote d'Ivoire had exhausted its
external reserves. 1/
Launchina the Structural Adlustment Process (1981-86)
6.        In 1981, the Government launched a Structural Adjustment Program
to restore macroeconomic equilibria and lay the basis for the resumption of
stable growth. The focus of the program was on internal demand adjustment
and the initiation of structural reforms to restore growth. Public
investment was reduced from an average of 15% of GDP between 1976 and 1982
to 6% of GDP in 1986-88, largely by reducing low priority investments. In
addition, the parastatal sector was substantially restructured and a broad
1/ The economic indicators and projections for Cote d'Ivoire are presented in Annex
I.



- 3 -
range of fiscal measures implemented to increase revenue. Monetary policy
was tightened. Measures were also taken to improve the most obvious
distortions in the system of economic incentives and a tariff-cum-export
subsidy scheme was introduced in 1986 to compensate for the real exchange
rate appreciation. Adjustment policies under the SAL process significantly
promoted resource shifts to tradables through rising agricultural producer
prices while public sector wages were declining in real terms. Finally, a
four year rescheduling (MYRA) was agreed upon in 1986 to reduce the
external debt burden. The program was supported by -hree SALs from the
Bank in 1981, 1983, and 1986, and by an EFF and two stand-by arrangements
from the IMF in 1981, 1984, and 1986. Partly due to the program, and
partly due to favorable international prices for coffee and cocoa,
macroeconomic equilibria were temporarily restored in 1985/86. The economy
grew at 5% in real terms in 1985. With GDP rising again by 3.6% in 1986,
the country appeared to have entered a growth phase compatible with public
finance and balance of payments equilibria.
7.        Most remarkably, Cote d'Ivoire was able to improve income
distribution and protect the poorest in that period of drastic adjustment
where per capita incomes fell by close to 25% in real terms between 1981
and 1984. Thus while the average urban income was 3.5 times the average
rural income in 1980, it was only about twice in 1985   Within urban areas,
the ratio of tha highest salaries compared to the 1         -. s  Elaries had come
down from 35 times to 18 times.  Throughout this period, so-..al harmony and
political stability were maintained, and a sense of solidarity enhanced.
8.        The major efforts undertak. to restore equilibria while
protecting the vulnerable, and in fact improving income distribution,
proved difficult to sustain. Indeed, the favorable developments of 1985
and 1986 masked only temporarily the economy's continuing structural
weaknesses: high debt service obligations, a heavy dependence on the price
of a few primary commodities, high public sector spending, and a
deterioration in international competitiveness. The shocks of 1987 and
1988 required major additional adjustment measures.
Recent Developt.ents (1987-89)
9.        M&acroeconomic improvements were short-lived and the economic
situation quickly deteriorated in 1987 and 1988. The steady decline in the
world market prices of agricultural products (in particular of cocoa, Cote
d'Ivoire's main export commodity), combined with expansionary fiscal
policies, were the main causes of continuing economic difficulties. As
world prices fell below domestic support prices, the CAISSTAB started
incurring substantial losses for the first time in its history. The
budgetary situation, in equilibrium in 1985 and 1986, moved to a deficit of
4.6% and 11.4% of GDP in 1987 and 1988 respectively. These deficits were
financed by the accumulation of domestic and foreign arrears, which led to
a serious liquidity crisis and the loss of private sector confidence. As a
result, private investment fell to 9% of GDP, and GDP declined by 1.6% in
1987 and 3.7% in 1988.



1 z-
10.       During 1988, believing the fall in world cocoa prices to be
temporary, the authorities were reluctant to adjust domestic support prices
for the major export commodities. This was all the more understandable
since producer prices had been a central part of the successful income
distribution strategy of the early 1980's. For cocoa, the coantry embarked
on a strategy aimed at driving up world prices by stockpiling. However, as
record cocoa crops in Cote d'Ivoire, Malaysia, Nigeria, and Ghana were
confirmed for 1988-89, signalling a fourth consecutive annual surplus on
world markets, Cote d'Ivoire's withholding strategy collapsed and world
prices dropped. The corresponding terms of trade loss precipitated a
mounting financial crisis with fast increasing internal and external
imbalances. Domestic arrears increased to reach nearly 10% of GDP by June
1989, putting the country's financial system in jeopardy. Projections
showed that, in the absence of drastic adjustments, the 1989 total fiscal
deficit would reach about 17% of GDP (CAISSTAB's deficit alone reaching
close to 6% of GDP), which would imply a financing gap of about CFAF 800
billion (US$2.6 billion) before the rescheduling of the external debt.
11.       Faced with this serious situation, the authorities are embarking
on a medium-term strategy to address the present financial difficulties and
return C6te d'Ivoire to the path of rapid economic growth consistent with
the country's large potential. This strategy should progressively achieve
a fundamental restructuring and diversifica:. on of the economy and a major
improvement in competitiveness so as to reduce Cote d'Ivoire's dependence
on cocoa production, expand nion-traditional exports, and increase the scope
for import substitution without reliance on high levels of protection.
These objectives are to be achieved through the implementation of sound
financial policies and structural reforms. The successful implementation
of this strategy and the return to medium-term balance of payments
viability will depend, to a large extent, on the availability of
concessional external financing from official creditors and on a
significant reduction in both external debt and debt service payments due
to commercial banks.
THE SHORT-TERM: PUBLIC FINANCE AND STRUCTURAL REFORMS
12.       The Government's objective in the short-term is to move towards
public finance equilibrium and to reduce domestic payments arrears.
Achieving this goal is a pre-requisite for the resumption of a private
sector led growth. Government arrears are jeopardizing the health of the
financial system and have led to a rapid decline in private economic
activity. Hence, the authorities have put in place, with the help of Bank
and Fund staff, an 18-month program which aims at stabilizing the 'conomy
while starting the more difficult process of fundamental structural
reforms. It has also started discussions with its foreign creditors with
the aim of restructuring its external debt and reducing foreign arrears.
The stabilization program is expected to lead to a reduction in thk total
fiscal deficit to 8% of GDP and the central government deficit (excluding
interest payments) from 5.9% of GDP in 1988 to 3.8% in 1989, and then turn
it into a surplus of 2.9% of GDP in 1990. In the absence of any
adjustment, the primary deficit would have reached 8.7% of GDP in 1989.
Thus, domestic arrears will be reduced by about 3% of GDP during the



program period. Simultaneously, structural reforms in the agriculture,
energy, and water sectors have already been introduced or will begin
immediately.
13.       In support of this program, the authorities requested a stand-by
arrangement from the Fund and three sectoral adjustment loans -- for
agriculture, energy, and water supply/sanitation -- from the Bank. The
stand-by arrangement was approved by the IMF Executive Board on November
20, 1989. To ensure Fund support over the entire period of the
restructuring plan, Cote d'Ivoire intends to request that the stand-by
arrangement be replaced by a three-year extended arrangement during the
second part of 1990. The first sectoral adjustment program, for the
agricultural sector, was approved by the Bank's Board of Executive
Directors on October 24, 1989; its first tranche has already been released.
The energy sector adjustment program is the subject of this report; its
details are given in Part III below. The program for the water/sanitation
sector will be submitted to the Board of Executive Directors in the near
future.
Reducing the Fiscal Deficit
14.       In the context of the IMF supported program the Government has
embarked on a major adjustment of public finances. Comparing the
adjustment scenario with one where no adjustment would occur, it is noted
that the Government's effort is equivalent to 11.5% of 1988 GDP. This
important effort could be decomposed as follows: 7.2% of GDP due to the
reduction in agricultural producer prices, 2.3% of GDP due to expenditure
reductions, and 2% of GDP due to revenue enhancement efforts.
15.       Agricultural Pricing Policies.  In July and September 1989, the
authorities reduced the guaranteed producer prices for both cocoa and
coffee from CFAF 400/Kg to CFAF 200/Kg. The guaranteed cost price for both
crops was further reduced by a cut in scheduled marketing costs of 9.4 %.
Overall, these measures brought reductions in the domestic purchase prices
for cocoa and coffee (excluding the export tax) of close to 35%. The
export tax (DUS) on cocoa and coffee, which had already been lifted on
cocoa for certain contracts and reduced for coffee sales during the third
quarter, has been suspended altogether for the current crop year (October
1989-September 1990); it will subsequently be reintroduced depending on the
improvement in the differential between domestic production costs and
international prices. Measures have also been taken to eliminate any
deficit by the CAISSTAB on its cotton operations, mainly through a widening
and better enforcement of the differential between the producer prices of
the two major grades of cotton. Furthermore, the administrative budget of
the CAISSTAB was reduced by 10% from mid-1989 (cuts in personnel outlays
and other expenditures on goods and services), yielding a saving of CFAF 1
billion on an annual basis.
16.       On the basis of these measures and current projections for world
market prices and exchange rates, the deficit of the CAISSTAB's
stabilization operations for 1989 as a whole is expected to be limited to
CFAF 133 billion (4.4% of GDP), instead of CFAF 188 billion without



corrective measures. For 1990, the measures should produce a surplus of
CFAF 30 billion, more than covering the CAISSTAB's administrative
expenditures.
17.       Expenditure Reduction.  The Government has taken steps to teduce
current non-interest expenditure in the second half of 1989 by CFAF 31
billion (1% of GDP), including CFAF 17 billion under the general budget and
CFAF 14 billion under annexed budgets and extra-budgetary accounts of the
Treasury. The savings in the general budget consist of reductions in
expenditures on goods and services (CFAF 8 billion), subsidies and other
transfers (CFAF 7.6 billion), and personnel outlays for technical experts
(CFAF 1.4 billion). The level of current expenditures for education (43.3%
of total current budget) and health (7.7%) has not changed. For 1990,
additional savings of CFAF 41 billion (1.4% of GDP) in non-interest current
expenditure have been programmed and incorporated in the regular budget
law. As for education and health, the Government does not envisage to
alter the past allocations, but it will put increased emphasis on improving
the outlook for primary education and health. Reflecting acute financing
constraints and the lack of local counterpart funds, the central
government's investment expenditures for 1989 were reduced by CFAF 37
billion (1.2% of GDP). Public investment will be raised in 1990 to CFAF
100 billion, slightly below its 1988 level.
18.       Revenue Enhancement.  In the area of taxation, the new measures
are directed at a rationalization and broadening of the import tax system
and an enhanced collection effort for domestic taxes. The import tax
measures include the introduction of a statistical tax of 2% and a minimum
import duty of 10% on all imports, which would be subject to few specific
exemptions. This implies that imports previously taxed at more than 10%
will continue to be taxed at that rate, while imports previously taxed at
between 0 and 10% will now be uniformly taxed at 10%. The effect of these
measures is a broadening of the import tax base combined with a reduced
dispersion of rates, designed to lower evasion and fraud. The revenue gain
is expected to be CFAF 9 billion (0.3% of GDP), in 1989 and CFAF 19 billion
(0.7% of GDP), in 1990. The Government has also taken steps to strengthen
the human and material resources of the ta- authority, while engaging in a
public campaign against tax evasion and fraud, and informing taxpayers of
the stepping up of tax enforcement. Based on an inventory of large tax
arrears and the level of tax assessments being issued, the authorities
expect to improve the collection of domestic taxes by CFAF 13 billion (0.4%
of GDP) for the remainder of 1989 and CFAF 30 billion (1% ) for 1990. With
respect to non-tax revenue, the Government has taken steps to increase the
receipt of transfers from public enterprises -- for the servicing of their
external guaranteed debt -- by CFAF 15 billion (0.5% of GDP), beyond what
had previously been expected. This additional revenue and an expected
further increase of CFAF 15 billion (0.5% of GDP) in 1990 depend to a
considerable extent on the implementation by the public enterprises of
expenditure-saving measures and on the ability of the Government to effect
the programmed reduction of domestic arrears. Finally, the Government
projects increased revenue (amounting in 1989 to CFAF 2 billion each), from
(i) the operations of the Price Equalization Fund for Staple Products
(CGPPGC) and (ii) from transfers by profitable public enterprises.



-7-
Sectoral Reforms
19.       In addition to the financial stabilization measures described
above, the program provides for a wide-ranging set of sectoral reforms of
which implementation has already started -- or will start in the course of
the next 12-18 months. Indeed, in some cases, the Government has gone
further than originally envisaged. For instance, in the agriculture sector
the Government has reduced producer prices for coffee and cocoa beyond what
was agreed in light of continuing weakening world market prices. These
reforms aim principally at restoring international competitiveness through
reductions in factor costs, strengthening of economic incentives, removal
of distortions created by Government intervention, and increased reliance
on the private sector. Adjustment in the agriculture, energy, and water
and sanitation sectors is being implemented with Bank supprort, while
financial sector reforms have been initiated by the BCEAO.
20.       The Agricultural Sector Adiustment Program.  This program aims
to: (i) shift incentives towards crops with higher comparative advantage
with producer prices that reflect world market conditions, and provide
adequate incentive to high value crops and improved quality, especially
coffee (for which a special quality premium has been introduced), rubber,
fruits and vegetables, and cotton; (ii) improve rural financial
intermediation and access to savings/credit facilities, including a
restructuring of the Agricultural Bank (BNDA); (iii) extend export/import
and domestic marketing liberalization to food crops, livestock, cotton,
palm oil, and diversification crops; eliminating subsidies and reducing
intermediation costs by parastatal marketing enterprises; (iv) reduce costs
for the agro-industrial sector through tax reform, especially by extension
of the value-added tax to the sector; (v) reorient public expenditures away
from subsidies and towards high-return investments and adequate funding of
research and extension services; and (vi) reduce Government's role in
direct production, and separate the commercial activities of parastatals
from their responsibilities undertaken on behalf of the Government.
21.       The Energy Sector Adjustment Program.  The main elements of this
program are: (i) introduction of a new contractual framework for
hydrocarbon exploration and development; (ii) review of the energy project
portfolio to define an optimum investment program; (iii) internal
reorganization and financial restructuring of energy parastatals; and (iv)
introduction of more efficient -- flexible -- pricing for energy products
as well as selective energy price reductions. Together, these measures
will make a significant contribution to a more efficient allocation of
resources in the energy sector as well as in the economy as a whole,
mobilize private sector finance, and enhance the competitive position of
the country's productive sectors.
22.       The Water and Sanitation Sector Adiustment Program.  This
program will reduce and realign water costs so as to improve industrial
competitiveness, as well as restore water services to four million
villagers, arrest environmental degradation, and promote privatization.
The program includes: (i) transferring operating and maintenance
responsibilities in the rural areas to water users; (ii) transferring



- 8 -
investment-related responsibilities for urban water supply to a private
operator; (iii) introducing regulations concerning private extraction of
water resources and wastewater disposal; (iv) restructuring the finances of
the sector to restore its financial autonomy; and (v) reducing water
tariffs and costs by 20%.
23.       Financial Sector Reforms.  Growth in Cote d'Ivoire will require
a rise in private sector investment, and hence an increased need for
medium-term financing. Aware of this and of the important role that the
financial system will play in any adjustment program, the UMOA has recently
adopted a series of basic reforms which will shift Central Bank
interventior. to indirect instruments of monetary control, promote savings,
and create a uniform market-based interest rate structure. Bank margins
have been widened and preferential interest rates abolished. Crop
marketing credits and loans benefitting from Government guarantees will no
longer receive preferential treatment with respect to interest rates or
access. Moreover, Central Bank's oversight and control of the banking
system will be substantially strengthened with a view to avoiding the bank
failures of the past. The Central Bank will directly participate in the
rehabilitation of banks in difficulty through the consolidation of unpaid
overdrafts and the coordination of its policies with national adjustment
programs containing financial sector reforms.
Social Dimensions of Adjustment
24.       The present economic crisis has led to a sharp reduction in per
capita income and in private consumption during the past few years. The
halving of producer prices for cocoa and coffee are necessary macroeconomic
measures which have dealt a blow to rural incomes. However, it is
important to note that this had already happened: for the past year,
traders and intermediaries were not paying many farmers the official price
in the anticipation of a market shift. The official realignment of
producer prices and reduction of marketing margins thus keeps wealthy
individuals (the traders) from making a major profit at the expense of the
farmers. The reforms in the recently approved Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan (ASAL - Report No. P4799-RCI), on the other hand, allow
room for cocoa and coffee farmers to reconstitute their incomes by
switching to other crops. Actions affecting other rural groups also lay
the foundations for resumption of growth in the sector which should help
re-establish the positive trend in income distribution after this initial
setback. Other Bank-supported actions will also have a major impact on
rural welfare. These include: more rational electrification (supported by
this loan); more effective water supply (supported by the proposed Water
Supply SECAL); and the proposed fine-tuning of intra-sectoral expenditures
in the health and education sectors to favor basic and primary services.
In the urban areas, the poor are concentrated in the informal sector where
economic activities are effectively deregulated. Food prices, which are an
important element effecting the consumption baskets of these households,
are not likely to decline. The Government is thus actively trying to
identify a program of short-term interventions to help generate additional
employment opportunities to assist these population groups during the
admittedly difficult transition period. More important, however, will be



- 9 -
to lay the foundation for the participation of the poor, both rural and
urban, in the process of economic growth.
25.       To address both the short-term issues of negative impact of
stabilization policies, and the medium-term issues of effective
participation in resumed growth, the Government also intends to design and
implement a comprehensive strategy to achieve growth with poverty
reduction. To this effect, two working groups have been established, with
representation from all sectors concerned, and participation drawn from
Government, the private sector and academic circles. They are in the
process of defining the policy measures, action plans and additional
support measures required. This should produce a series of operations to
be supported by the Bank and other donors over the next two to three years.
TOWARDS A RESUMPTION OF GROWTH
26.       The success of the program of financial stabilization and sector
reforms is a necessary, but not sufficient condition, for the resumption of
growth. This will require a further shift in relative prices and in the
incenti7tes structure in favor of tradable goods. Hence, the Government has
decided to complement its current efforts with a more far-reaching
adjustment program aimed at restoring Cote d'Ivoire's competitiveness and
diversifying its economy. The broad outline of this adjustment program has
already been established, and agreed upon with the Fund and the Government.
Agreement has also been reached with the Government on the specific actions
needed to develop it over time (i.e. during the next 12 months) into a
concrete viable program. (Imp3ementation is to commence as soon as
possible, in some cases during 1990, in others over a longer period.)
Overview of the Medium-Term Adustment Program
27.       The massive deterioration in Cote d'Ivoire's terms of trade
since 1986 -- prices of its major exports fell by 35% -- and the
concomitant rise in the current account deficit -- it rose to 11% of GDP in
1988 from an equilibrium situation in 1985-86 -- imply the need for a real
depreciation to increase non-traditional exports and e£ficient import
substitutes. The Government has decided to achieve this depreciation
through the reduction of domestic costs. In particular, a nominal decline
in wages will be necessary -- wages in the industrial sector are now nearly
double those prevailing in competing countries. Such a reduction in
domestic costs would be achieved through a program consisting of four main
elements: regulatory reform; the rehabilitation and/or privatization of
public enterprises; reductions in tax and tariff rates; and large cuts in
Government current expenditures -- including the wage bill.
28.       Regulatory Reform.  The Ivorian economy is over-regulated which
implies considerable cost to the private sector. Areas where glaring
anomalies exist include: the ineffectual system of price controls; the
investment code which implies that some entrepreneurs have to wait for more
than two years to obtain their "agrement prioritaire"; and, export and
import regulations which lead to goods being delayed in the port for an



- 10 -
average of twenty days. In view of the above, the Government has decided
to streamline and simplify those regulations to reduce firms'
administrative costs and their demand for working capital. In addition,
labor regulations will be reviewed with the aim of removing wage rigidities
and allowing for the needed downward adjustment in nominal wages.
29.       The Rehabilitation and/or Privatization of Public Enterprises.
Inefficient public enterprises providing essential services to the private
sector are another reason for the high cost structure in Cote d'Ivoire.
The sector adjustment operations will lead to a reduction in electricity
and water prices. Extremely high transport costs -- it costs twice as much
to ship goods from Abidjan to Marseille as from Singapore to Marseille --
are partly due to the inefficiency of public enterprises operating in the
sector. Hence, the Government's medium term adjustment program will
include a reform of the public enterprise sector and an acceleration of the
privatization effort which started in the early eighties.
30.       Tax and Tariff Reforms.  The Ivorian productive sector is
overtaxed: the effective profit tax rate is 50%, the normal VAT rate is
25%, and gasoline is taxed at 69% so that its price, at CFAF 350 a litre
(about US$4.25 per US gallon), is much higher than world prices. Despite
these high rates, tax collection is low and decreasing, as economic
activity declines and fraud and evasion rise. Faced with a shrinking tax
base, the Government has, in the past, resorted to increasing rates which
has led to rising distortions and a further shrinking of the formal sector
which is becoming increasingly uncompetitive. Hence, a reduction of
statutory rates, together with tax simplifications and institutional
reforms aimed at improving collections, are an important component of the
Government's medium-term adjustment program.
31.       Reductions in Government Spending.  The necessary reductions in
taxes and tariffs, even if accompanied with improved collections, will
probably lead to a fall in Government revenue. No medium-term program will
be viable if it is accompanied by large fiscal deficits. Hence, a further
cut in Government spending is included in the medium-term program. Since,
at 2.3% of GDP, investment spending is already at a bare minimum, future
cuts will come from the current budget. This necessarily means a reduction
in the civil service wage bill which is the largest item of the recurrent
budget -- especially since the budget for materials has taken the full
brunt of adjustment since 1981, leaving very little room for maneuver. A
reduction in the civil service wage bill will be needed to bring about the
real depreciation. At CFAF 305 billion in 1989, the personnel budget
represents 10% of GDP. Household survey data indicate that the mean civil
service salary is around US$560/month which is roughly 10 times the per
capital GDP on an annual basis, and 5 times the mean salary of employees in
the informal private sector.
Towards Implementing The Medium-Term Program
32.       The Goverrment has agreed with Bank staff on the four broad
areas of reform discussed above, and has devised a joint work program aimed
at recommending specific measures needed to implement the reforms. To this



- 11 -
effect, two activities are currently being undertaken: a competitiveness
study, and a public expenditure review; one activity, a resource
mobilization study, has been completed.
33.       The Competitiveness Study.  The Government has put in place an
interministerial committee to analyze the problem of high production costs
and propose concrete measures that could be adopted. With Bank and UNDP
financial and technical support, the committee has commissioned a study of
Ivorian competitiveness. This study, which is to be completed by end
December 1989, would present an action plan including deregulation and tax
and tariff simplifications, as well as changes in labor laws and import and
export regulations. In the context of the IMF program, the Government has
committed itself to a speedy implementation of the study's recommendations.
34.       The Public Expenditure Review.  A public expenditure review was
launched in November 1989. The purpose of this review is to analyze the
investment and recurrent budgets as well as the financial situation of key
public enterprises. As far as the investment budget is concerned, the
focus will be on reorienting public projects towards areas where they would
have the greatest impact on private sector development, and on improving
the country's capabilities for mobilizing foreign financing, on
concessional terms, for its investment program. As far as the current
budget is concerned, the focus will be on cutting expenditures, especially
the wage bill. Given the political sensitivity of this issue, the review
will focus on producing a detailed breakdown of the wage bill:
differentiating between different classes of employees and between base
salaries and various allowances and indemnities. The objective is to
present the Government with a number of alternative approaches to reducing
personnel expenditures. As far as the parastatal sector is concerned, the
review will present an assessment of the negative impact of public
enterprises on the central government's budget, and means of reducing it.
35.       The Resource Mobilization Report.  The Bank has produced a
resource mobilization report which presents recommendations concerning the
financial sector and the tax system. Many of the Bank's recommendations
have been adopted or are being put in place, and a dialogue is starting
with the Government to implement the remaining recommendations. The BCEAO
authorities have already implemented some of the report's recommendations
concerning interest rate policies, the sectoral allocation of credit, and
the creation of a special unit for bank monitoring and auditing. The
report's recommendations concerning the strengthening of the tax and tariff
departments and the elimination of ad hoc exemptions are currently being
implemented as part of the stabilization program. Recommendations
concerning the simplification of the tax regime, a single VAT rate, one
income tax schedule and a more uniform tariff structure, as well as
concerning the reduction of taxes on productive activities, the elimination
of the National Investment Fund Tax to reduce the effective profit tax to
40X, and the rationalization of implicit taxes on oil products, will be
considered for implementation as part of the medium-term adjustment
program.



- 12 -
ECONOMIC PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
The Short-Term
36.        As mentioned before, the Government has opted for an internal
adjustment process in which competitiveness is restored through a reduction
in domestic costs. The program formulated by the Government would have an
initial recessionary impact, i.e., GDP would continue to decline or
stagnate during the next 2-3 years. This difficult adjustment period will
be characterized by a large decline in per capita consumption mainly due to
cuts in public consumption. Thus, the domestic savings rate would rise
sharply from around 15% to 25% of GDP, which is still slightly below the
level prevailing in the seventies and early eighties. In addition to this
needed rise in savings, it is expected that a realignment of relative
prices will take place, thus leading to a rise in the volume of private
investment and an improvement in its efficiency, laying the foundation for
the resumption of stable growth as of 1993. Details of the short term
projections are presented in Table 1 below.
Table 1: Summary Macroeconomic Indicators
The Short-Term Outlook y
Actual                         Projected
1987    1988    1989   1990      1991    1992
Annual Growth Rates
(constint prices)
CDP                        -1.6    -8.7    -0.7    -1.6    -0.6       0.6
Total Consumption/capita   -2.6    -7.7    -4.7   -10.0    -6.9    -4.4
Exports (GNFS)             -9.6   -16.9    20.6    -4.7       2.1     2.1
Imports (GNFS)             -2.0   -14.4    -4.8   -11.4      0.6      1.8
X of GDP
Gross Domestic Investment    11.7    18.9    6.7     9.7    10.7    11.5
Public Investment          8.9     4.7     2.8     8.4      4.4     6.0
Private Investment         7.8     9.2     4.4     6.8      8.8     6.6
Gross Domestic Savings     16.9    16.6    17.2    21.7    28.4    24.5
Trade Balance (GNFS)        4.1    -0.4      8.2     2.8      8.9     4.9
Current Account Balance    -4.8   -11.0    -8.8    -9.8    -9.2    -9.5
Primary Current Acc. Balance -0.7    -5.6    -1.6    -1.3    -0.2     0.9
Central Gov't. Balance     -4.6   -11.4   -10.5    -6.2    -6.9    -8.4
Primary Fiscal Surplus     -0.5    -6.9    -8.8      2.9      2.1     2.0
Debt Indicators
Total Debt Outst.(PPG)/GDP   81.4    74.6    90.8   102.1   121.6   188.9
Total Debt Service (PPG)/XGS 18.8    29.6    88.2    48.7    54.6    50.9
Total Interest (PPG)/GDP    4.1    656       6.8     8.0      9.1    10.4
I/   These projections have been updated with respect to those presented in the ASAL of
September 1989, to account, first, for a projected reduction In the wage bill; and
second, for the decline in cocoa and coffee prices observed in August 1989.



- 13 -
The Medium-Term
37.        The realignment of relative prices together with the increase in
savings and investment is expected to lead to the resumption of positive
per capita growth as of 1995. Growth will be led mainly by agriculture (4%
per annum). The increase in exports and the restructuring of public
finances will imply important improvement in the public finance and balance
of payments positions, with primary surpluses (excluding interest) in both
accounts. Thus Cote d'Ivoire would enter a sustainable growth phase,
consistent with internal and external equilibria. Details of the medium-
term projections are presented in Table 2 below.
Table 2: Simmary Macroeconomic Indicators
The Medium-Trm Outlook
Projected
1998       1994       1995        1998       1997
Annual Growth Rates
(constant prices)
GDP                              2.0        8.0        8.6         4.0        4.0
Total Consumptlon/capita        -3.1       -1.2       -1.0        -0.6        0.2
Exports (GNFS)                  2.7         8.2        8.9         4.0        4.1
Imports (GNFS)                  2.2         8.1        8.2         8.2        8.3
K of GOP
Gross Domestic Investment      12.6        18.0       18.6        14.0       14.0
Public Investment              6.0        6.0        6.0         6.0        5.0
Private Investment             7.5        8.0        8.6         9.0        9.0
Gross Domestic Savings          26.8       28.8       27.0        27.7       27.9
Trade Balance (GNFS)            5.3         5.6        8.2         7.6        8.9
Current Account Balance        -8.9        -8.3       -7.8        -656       -8.5
Primary Current Acc. Balance     1.6        2.1        2.8         4.4        6.0
Public Sector Balance           -8.3       -7.9       -7.8        -8.6       -6.4
Primary Fiscal Surplus          2.1         2.4        2.8         8.6        4.1
Debt Indicators
Total Debt Outst.(PPG)/GDP     135.7       139.8      137.7     184.4        130.3
Total Debt Service (PPG)/XGS    46.6        40.2       40.9       87.6        86.4
Total Interest (PPG)/GDP       10.4         10.8       10.1       9.9          9.6
1/ These projections have been updated with respect to those presented in the ASAL of September
1989, to account, first, for a projected reduction In the wage bill; and second, for the
decline In cocoa and coffee prices observed in August 1989.
Financing Requirements
38.    Despite the strong adjustment measures adopted by the authorities,
Cote d'Ivoire needs substantial financial assistance from multilateral,
bilateral and private creditors to implement in an orderly fashion its
stabilization and restructuring program and to normalize its external
financial relations. Apart from loans traditionally aimed at financing the
public investment budget, the program envisages for 1989-90 an overall



- 14 -
financing requirement of the order of US$4 billion, as reflected in Table
3. About one fifth of the overall requirement is expected to be covered by
resources provided by the multilateral institutions, principally the IMF,
the World Bank, and the African Development Bank. Moreover, it is assumed
that rescheduling of medium- and long-term foreign debt to official and
private creditors on conventional terms would cover about US$2,914 million.
In view of the magnitude of the debt and arrears to commercial banks, a
comprehensive debt renegotiation, including debt-reduction options, will be
required. A first meeting between the Steering Committee of the country's
commercial creditors and the Government took place in early November 1989.
At that meeting the Government made specific proposals for the
restructuring of Cote d'Ivoire's commercial bank debt. It also indicated
its willingness to resume some debt service payments during 1990. The
commercial banks are currently studying the Government's proposals and
another meeting with the Government is scheduled for not later than January
1990. A meeting of the Paris Club is also scheduled for January 1990. The
financing plan of the authorities leaves an estimated residual gap of
US$413 million for the remainder of 1989 and 1990, which will be financed
through exceptional additional assistance from the donor community.
Commitments for this level of additional assistance were obtained from the
donors at a special meeting held in Paris on October 9-10, 1989.
Tabl- 8: Finvncing Requiremnts of AdJuatment Progrsm. 1989-90
Revised Estimates
1989      1990      Tbas               Total 8/
----- (i n-XETTTMI on)---------     (In USTmTlTon)
Financina Requirements f             846        814      1260                 4038
I    Identified multilateral financing    62    170       222                 711
IMF ;/                         17         44        61                 19S
IBRD program loans             16         78        92                 296
African Development Bank       14         46        69                  189
European Investment Bank        6          6        10                  32
II.  Bilateral/multilateral assistance    84     96       129                 418
(Donors Conference)
III. Debt Relief (Residual Gap) /      680       849       909                2914
i/    Equal to public expenditur. minus revenue.
2/    Corresponding to an arrangement for 756 of quota on an annual basis, over a period of 17 months.
i/    Based on an exchange rate of 812 CFAF/USS.
4/    Presently being negotiated with the London and Paris Clubs.
Source: IMF/IBRD.



- 15 -
39.      After the initial phase of domestic stabilization, Cote d'Ivoire
will still be faced with a difficult transition period before a positive
rate of economic growth is restored and a recovery in real per capita
income is achieved as outlined above. Strong efforts will be needed to
generate additional domestic savings to finance the diversification and the
modernization of the production base of the economy. Notwithstanding the
Government's commitment to adjustment, Cote d'Ivoire's external debt will
remain a serious constraint on the country's prospects for achieving
sustained economic growth. Conventional rescheduling and financing
presently availablz for highly indebted lower-middle-income countries will
not contribute to a lasting alleviation of Cote d'Ivoire's critical
external debt problem. The country's medium-term economic and financial
outlook thus hinges importantly on the willingness and ability of the major
creditors to provide substantial concessional assistance and further debt
relief.
PART II. THE ENERGY SECTOR
THE ROLE OF THE ENERGY SECTOR IN THE ADJUSTMENT PROCESS
40.      The energy sector plays a pivotal role in the Ivoirian economy and
in the process of adjustment. Imports of energy weigh heavily on the
balance of payments, averaging nearly one-fifth of total merchandise
imports in gross terms, and one-tenth net of re-exports, over the period
1980-85; energy imports have, however, come down substantially since 1986
with the decline in the international price of petroleum. Activities in
the energy sector are also a significant part of Cote d'Ivoire's
production; the combined turnover of enterprises in the sector constitutes
nearly 30% of the country's industrial output. The energy sector is
dominated by public sector enterprises, a number of which are now among the
largest of Cote d'Ivoire's companies. Along with the rest of the public
sector, these parastatals embarked on an over-ambitious investment program
during the period leading up to 1980. Public energy-related investment in
hydrocarbon exploration and production, development of hydroelectric and
thermal generation facilities, and distribution of power and petroleum
products amounted to approximately one-fourth of total public investment
during the period 1960-80, reaching nearly 172 of total gross fixed capital
formation in the entire country. However, these energy investments,
financed largely through commercial borrowings by the parastatals, were not
always based on strict economic and financial considerations and have
consequently yielded poor returns.
41.      Due to these inefficient investments as well as managerial
deficiencies, the financial performance of the energy sector enterprisevL,
like that of Cote d'Ivoire's parastatals in general, has been poor and has
contributed to the overall deterioration in the country's economic



- 16 -
performance. Accumulated losses by the energy sector enterprises amounted
in 1988 to FCFA 200 billion constituting nearly 20% of total public
revenues in that year. As a result, the enterprises are now saddled with
medium- and long-term debt which in 1988 attained FCFA 330 billion. The
external part of this debt, FCFA 250 billion (US$780 million), represents
one-tenth of Cote d'Ivoire's total external indebtedness and 8% of GDP. As
their financial situation has worsened, the energy sector enterprises have
become increasingly unable to service their debt.
42.      Like other important commodities in Cote d'Ivoire, prices of
energy are administered by Government. For electricity and petroleum
products, their levels have been set on the basis of fiscal and financial
rather than economic considerations. Through taxes on petroleum product
consumption, the energy sector has come to play a critical role in the
mobilization of domestic resources; in 1987, tax levies on petroleum
products generated 11.6% of total public revenues or 3.5% of GDP, compared
to 3.2% of public revenues and 0.9% of GDP in 1981. These taxes,
concurrent with the financial requirements of the energy sector
parastatals, have translated into high consumer prices for energy. As an
input, energy therefore weighs heavily on the productive sectors and is one
of the factors contributing to high cost structure of the Ivoirian economy,
and its resulting lack of international competitiveness.
43.            The energy sector will thus need to contribute significantly
to the achievement of the general objectives of the country's structural
adjustment program and the medium-term recovery program outlined in paras. 27
to 31 above. Efficient management and operation of the various energy
enterprises are an essential condition for the improvement of the financial
position of the public sector and must contribute significantly to the
achievement of the stabilization objectives of the country as a whole. In
addition, because of its pervasive effects on all sectors of the economy,
energy must be supplied at the lowest economic prices in order to reduce
distortions and ensure maximum efficiency in domestic production. And
finally, the energy sector in particular is in a position to attract
private investment and to mobilize significant external resources.
SECTOR PROFILE
44.      The main energy sources of Cote d'Ivoire are biomass, hydrocarbons
and hydroelectric power. Abundant forestry reserves have traditionally
been the major indigenous source of energy, but intensive exploitation and
land clearing are threatening the sustainability of fuelwood supply--and
the environment. Agro-industries and sawmills also produce large
quantities of biomass in the form of residues of which about half is used
to generate steam and electricity. Hydroelectric potential of economic
interest is estimated at 10,000 GWh in an average water year; so far, only
20 percent of this potential has been developed. Discoveries of modest
crude oil and natural gas reserves in the 1970s increased the country's
energy resource base. Exploitation of crude commenced in 1980 and
production reached a peak of one million tons in 1983. However, because of



- 17 -
a high production-to-reserves ratio and the lack of new discoveries, oil
output has been on a steady decline since then; it fell to 760,000 tons in
1988. Natural gas reserves have not yet been developed.
Energy Demand and Supply
45.      Strong economic growth until 1982 induced rapidly rising energy
demand. During the period 1972-1982 when real GDP growth averaged about
6%, end-use of petroleum products and electricity rose by 8% per year.
Consumption of traditional forms of energy (fuelwood and charcoal) is
estimated to have grown at the same rate as the population, i.e. at about
4% per year. By 1982, total annual end-use (in terms of primary energy)
had reached 2.8 million TOE or 300 kg per capita. The fall of incomes and
investment since 1982 has drastically affected the demand for energy in the
modern sector. Whereas electricity consumption kept on growing, albeit at
a reduced rate of 3.5% per year, consumption of light petroleum products
declined 5% per year between 1982 and 1986 and stagnated thereafter. Use
of heavy fuel oil increased by an average of 20 % per year, but this trend
was related to increased thermal power generation as a result of recurring
drought conditions rather than end-use. Projected demand for non-
traditional fuels until 1995 is estimated to be modest, in line with growth
in consumption over the recent past (about 1.5% per year since the early
1980's) and with GDP growth of the order 1.5 to 2.5%. As in the past,
demand for traditional wood fuels is expected to keep pace with or exceed
population growth of about 3.5% per year. Commercial energy consumption is
unlikely to grow in per capita terms over the next five years.
46.      Fuelwood and charcoal supply originates largely from land clearing
for agricultural purposes at the expense of rapidly diminishing forestry
reserves, reduced to about 8 million hectares at present. Clearing is
estimated to continue at a rate of at least 300,000 hectares per year,
compared to replanting of only 5,000 hectares. The widespread and growing
use of charcoal as a fuel and the low conversion efficiency of charcoal
production from wood (12%) accounts for a large indirect demand for
fuelwood. This increases the r'.sk of fuelwood shortages in the not too
distant future, and--more importantly--the concomitant risk of irreversible
damage to the environment, unless household consumers switch to alternative
fuels such as butane and kerosene. There are indications that Cote
d'Ivoire is approaching a situation of fuelwood shortages near heavily
urbanized areas generally, and around Abidjan in particular.
47.      Hydrocarbon exploration in Cote d'Ivoire has been concentrated on
the continental shelf waters along the coast-line and onshore areas. When
the first commercial discovery of the Belier oil field was made in 1974,
hopes were high that the country could eventually become a significant oil
producer in its own right. After a major exploration effort, Cote
d'Ivoire's second commercial discovery, Espoir, was made in 1979. However,
both Belier and Espoir proved to be disappointingly small and difficult to
exploit, and it is now assumed that any future discoveries will be of the
same kind. Espoir was shut down on December 31, 1988 after about one half
of total recoverable reserves had been produced, and Belier is expected to
be depleted by 1990. An oil/gas offshore field complex discovered in the



- 18 -
east of the country (CEP2) is being appraised for commercial development
and a production scheme is being evaluated at the present time. Cote
d'Ivoire also possesses reserves of natural gas, but these have not been
exploited so far.
48.      Cote d'Ivoire's hydro power resources are found in the basins of
five major riverss the Cavally (partly forming the border with Liberia),
the Sassandra, the Bandama, the Comoe and the smaller Bia River in the
southeastern part of the country near the border with Ghana. Five power
stations on the Sassandra, Bandama and Bia rivers have a combined installed
capacity of 600 MW of which 420 MW is dependable under adverse streamflow
conditions. The corresponding primary energy output is 1400 GWh per year.
Thermal generation comprises about 190 MW of steam-electric power and 90 MW
of gas turbines, with a maximum annual energy production of 1600 GWh.
The transmission and primary distribution network, comprising 4000 km of
high-voltage lines and 10,900 km of medium- and low-voltage lines, covers
now most of the national territory and provides about half of the
population with access to electricity. A 225 kV interconnection with
Ghana, completed in 1983, is being used for exchange of secondary energy
and mutual support in emergencies.
49.      In terms of demand-supply balance, the outlook is thus different
for each of the three major subsectors:
(i)   in the woodfuels sector, aggregate supply and demand in Cote
d'Ivoire to 1995 are projected to balance out, but as of 1990
regional shortages are expected to develop in some urban areas,
especially Abidjan and Korhogo. Corresponding environmental
damage could occur as forest cover in the area gets depleted,
unless substitution for wood by other sources of energy takes
place in the household sector.
(ii)  in the hydrocarbons sector, petroleum imports to cover the
existing supply deficit should rise rapidly, because modest growth
in demand will coincide with depletion of the existing oil field
which is not expected to be offset by new production unless steps
are taken to encourage development of other hydrocarbon reserves.
This factor alone would contribute to a deterioration of the trade
balance by at least US$100 million per year.
(iii) in the electric power sector, the total dependable hydro-thermal
system capability of 700 MW and 3000 GWh compares to a 1988 load
demand of 350 MW and 2300 GWh. The existing generation facilities,
if managed correctly, will be able to satisfy demand until about
1996. However, fuel costs will increase rapidly as load growth
must be met by existing thermal generation plants that are
approaching the end of their service life.
Institutional Framework
50.      The Ministry of Water Resources and Forestry is responsible for
supervision of activities related to biomass utilization. A forestry



- 19 -
development agency (SODEFOR) was established in 1966 to manage industrial
tree plantations and to make inventories of forestry resources.
51.      The hydrocarbons subsector f'Ells under the technical jurisdiction
of the Ministry of Mines, specifically the Hydocarbon Directorate. This
subsector is served by a number of companies with participation of both the
stAte and the private sector. The national oil company PETROCI was
established in 1975 to serve as a vehicle for the Government to participate
in joint ventures with foreign oil companies for oil and gas exploration.
Besides acting as a minority shareholder in international exploration and
production consortiat PETROCI serves also as technical arm of the Ministry
of Mines in charge of formulating and applying Government policy in
petroleum exploration and development, and subsequently as a holding
company for Government's participation in other petroleum ventures such as
the refinery, an asphalt refining company, the Ivorian subsidiaries of two
international petroleum companies, and the security storage company.
52.      The Ivorian refinery (SIR) is a limited liability company created
in 1962 of which the principal shareholders are PETROCI (47.2 percent),
seven international petroleum companies (37.1%), and the Government of
Burkina Faso (5.4%). The Government's consolidated interest in SIR exceeds
50 percent. The traditional role of the refinery has been to supply Cote
d'Ivoire's domestic market and to meet the needs of land-locked Mali and
Burkina, altogether growing at 10 percent per year until the late 1970's.
A major expansion (from 1.9 to 3.8 million tons per year) was completed in
1983. Subsequently, SIR's capacity was scaled down to 3.0 million tonnes
per year, which is still well in excess of domestic consumption of about
one million tonnes per year.
53.      GESTOCI is a limited liability company formed in 1970 to provide
and manage a strategic petroleum products reserve equivalent to 60 days'
supply. The company's storage capacity equals 320,000 m3 in Abidjan and
100,000 m3 elsewhere in the country, constructe at an estimated cost of
US$60 million. The stock is held by PETROCI and in equal proportions by
seven petroleum product distribution companies. The statutory rights and
special supervisory powers of both the Ministries of Mines, and of Economy
and Finance, ensure full Government control of GESTOCI. Although GESTOCI's
primary objective is to handle Cote d'Ivoire's stra*egic reserves, it also
makes products available to the distribution companies at its installations
in Bouake and Yamoussoukro and thus assures bulk product transport between
the refinery in Abidjan and the depots. GESTOCI does not yet have any
commercial activity in Abidjan.
54.      The electricity subsector is the technical responsibility of the
Directorate of Energy and Infrastructure within the Ministry of Industry
and Plan. Under a new electricity law of 1985, the State claims the
monopoly of electricity transmission and distribution, and entrusts this
monopoly to the power company, EECI. Electricity generation is excluded
from the monopoly to allow for self-generation by other public or private
entities. EECI is a limited liability company, with most of the shares
held by the State (92.2%), the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(4.7%) and Electricite de France (1.3%). EECI operates under the so-called
concession system, which grants a public utility a fixed-term license to



- 20 -
take over, construct and operate facilities, to levy agreed tariffs and to
recover its capital at the end of the concession period. Several
categories of assets are regarded as the property of the State and must be
returned or made good by the company when its concession expires. Given
the geographic extent of EECI's interconnected system, the company has
effectively received the concession for the entire country.
55.      In response to the need for inspection and control of execution of
r:_ r public works, financed either directly by the State or by loans with
State guarantees, the Government established the Directorate DCGTx in 1978.
In that role the Directorate clearly acts as representative of the
contracting authority. Actually, after a reorganization in 1981, DCGTx
activities have extended de facto to all other phases of execution of
projects as well. DCGTx has exercised its attributes primarily in the
public works sector, specifically in road construction and maintenance. It
has only recently begun to exercise its control function elsewhere. In the
electricity sector, this activity comprises a review of EECI proposals for
financing of new investments that require a State guarantee. Although
DCGTx has no permanent coordinating function in the energy sector, it has
taken certain initiatives that may contribute to better integration of
energy policies, especially the preparation of a National Energy Plan
(PNE). Other achievements are a number of studies on the development of
Foxtrot Gas Field (para. 59) in conjunction with power development, and the
management of a study of household energy in Abidjan on behalf of the
Ministry of Water Resources and Forestry.
SECTOR ISSUES
56.      Performance of the energy sector in Cote d'Ivoire has undergone
gradual but inexorable deterioration, as outlined above. This is
attributable to a number of basic weaknesses. First, the sector's
investment program, including development of energy resources, has had
disappointing economic returns through lack of adequate planning and
project screening; second, operational efficiency has been less than
satisfactory and has led to poor financial performance; third, distortive
energy pricing and an inappropriate incentive framework have disseminated
their negative effects throughout the economy; and last, planning and
supervision at the Government level has been deficient and there has been
insufficient intra-sector coordination.
Hydrocarbon Exploration and Development
57.      Over the last twenty years, petroleum companies have invested
close to one billion US dollars in oil exploration in Cote d'Ivoire, and
although the country's sedimentary basins are by no means thoroughly
explored, it is now clear to the Government and to the oil industry at
large that Cote d'Ivoire's existing contractual framework for petroleum



- 21 -
exploration and production is poe:ly adapted to the country's geology as it
is now understood and to the current outlook for oil prices. Consequently,
the flow of foreign private venture capital for exploration has entirely
dried up and Cote d'Ivoire's petroleum production has tailed off.
58.      The existing contractual terms and conditions as set out in the
1970 Petroleum Code and Ordonnance 75-04 of 1975 provide the basis for the
Government to enter into production-sharing contracts with foreign
operators, which is accomplished by PETROCI entering into an "Association"
with foreign partners with a 10 to 15 percent carried share.  The foreign
associates are responsible for all exploration expenses, and thus bear
virtually all tne risk. The statutory provisions for the production phase
are an unfortunate hybrid of a production sharing mechanism and a
concession system, It is also regarded by the petroleum industry as
carrying substantial political risk, because the Government possesses a
unilateral right to increase PETROCI's share up to 60 percent. Thus a
radical restructuring of the entire regime is needed, more particularly in
the light of the more favorable terms under which companies can licence
exploration acreage in comparable countries today.
59.      Over and above the standstill of exploration for new hydrocarbon
resources, the most acute problem concerns the lack of development of
hydrocarbon resources that are already known to exist. A particular case
concerns the Foxtrot gas field discovered in 1982, for which domestic
markets could be found at SIR and EECI. Although this offshore field would
provide a marked boost to the availability of domestic energy in Cote
d'Ivoire and at the same time relieve some of the pressure on forestry
resources, its development has hardly progressed at all due primarily to a
lack of coordination among the Government and the various energy
parastatals. The foreign operators of the gas field abandoned the
concession at the end of 1988 and now the Government of Cote d'Ivoire must
seek a new partner for its development.
60.      PETROCI, although initially intended to be a vehicle for the
promotion of exploration and development of Cote d'Ivoire's hydrocarbon
resources, has not provided any significant contribution to this. The
company underwent rapid expansion beyond its basic function of Ivorian
participant in the upstream exploration and production side of the
industry, into a wide range of other activities sometimes only remotely
related to development of hydrocarbon resources. A return to its core
activity -- promoting petroleum exploration and attracting foreign risk
capital -- is required. This, however, will involve coming to grips with
structural and organizational problems, not least of which is its staffing
imbalance; the company has excess manpower in procurement and marketing,
while,it is short of staff capable of collecting and interpreting
exploration results, and of doing promotion work. PETROCI's finances have
suffered from its diversification and from the decline in petroleum
exploration and development activity. Its income is no longer enough to
support the existing level of head office expenses and limited sole-risk
exploration ventures. A summary financial statement of PETROCI for the
years FY84-88 is given in Annex V.



- 22 -
Supply and Distribution of Petroleum Products
61.      The SIR refinery performed reasonably well in the first decade of
operation, but ran into increasing difficulties as international crude
prices increased in the 1970's and domestic product prices remained
strictly controlled. The 1983 expansion, completed with substantial cost
overruns and financed by commercial borrowings, exacerbated SIR's financial
difficulties resulting from poor operating performance, undercapitalization
and heavy short-term indebtedness. Moreover, by the end of 1984, the
company was beset with management problems (overstaffing, poor record
keeping, and high refinery losses). Under its structural adjustment
program, the Government undertook a diagnostic study of the refinery in
1986 and SIR's management subsequently called upon outside technical
assistance to help implement its recommendations. This contributed to
bring about a return to profitable operations, based to a large extent on
the utilization of refining capacity surplus to Cote d'Ivoire's needs, for
export of petroleum products or for processing of crude oil for third
parties.
62.            The issue at this stage is the significant risk posed to SIR
in the medium term by competition from Nigeria's fourth refinery at Port
Harcourt which was commissioned in early 1989; the design capacity for this
refinery is much larger than current Nigerian domestic demand and part of
its surplus is likely to be used as a source of supply for trading
operations in the region. This development further underlines the
importance for SIR to continue to improve its competitive position in order
to maintain the refinery's throughput rates, because if these fall, the
financial consequences could be drastic. Despite the progress made in the
last few years, managerial and operational deficiencies remain. These need
to be addressed through manpower rationalization, inventory management,
improvements in oparating efficiency, and better integration of its
operations with product storage and distribution. A summary financial
statement for SIR for the years FY84-88 is given in Annex VI.
63.      GESTOCI possesses storage facilities far in excess of the volume
needed to store a 60-day supply of petroleum products, the statutory
requirement in Cote d'Ivoire. In Abidjan, the company has 200,000 m3 of
surplus capacity, not utilized and practically new, in addition to the
120,000 m3 needed for its purely strategic function. The Government has
not rendered these commercial for a variety of reasons, not least being the
existence in Abidjan of adequate storage facilities owned and operated by
private sector petroleum product distribution companies. Moreover, given
the current weakness of the petroleum market and Cote d'Ivoire's favorable
position relative to alternative sources of supply, the rigid target of 60
days for the actual strategic reserve should itself be questioned as it
imposes unnecessary costs on the sector and ultimately on the consumer who
pays for the immobilized inventories. This would not only save on the cost
of holding the security stocks but also free up additional storage capacity
for commercial use.
64.      Petroleum product distribution is the responsibility of seven
private sector companies (two of which are in fact joint ventures with the
Government of Cote d'Ivoire) which manage over 400 sales outlets, in most



- 23 -
cases through franchise arrangements with private Ivorian operators.
Service is reliable, but too costly because overcapacity results in low
average throughput rates and high unit costs as high overheads get spread
over an inadequate volume of sales. For a market the size of Cote
d'Ivoire, about 170 sales outlets could be eliminated and about half the
commercial depots shut down, with a corresponding reduction in the cost of
petroleum product distribution. The network thus requires restructuring
and rationalization, but the distribution margins set by Government do not
provide the companies with adequate incentives to do so.
Electricity
65.      Until the early 1980's, EECI had established a credible technical
record of maintaining a reliable power supply to a growing proportion of
the population. However, uncontrolled expansion of the company induced
both inefficiencies in its operations and management, and insufficient
financial controls, which in turn led to a high level of operating
expenditures. The situation was aggravated by below-average streamflows
that have prevailed since 1971 and, more recently, by poor management of
hydro-electric installations. As a result, production capability of
existing hydro-plants was temporarily reduced, while increased thermal
generation to make up for the shortfall costed EECI on average US$25
million per year at current fuel prices, or 15% of operating expenditures.
Until 1982, EECI's customer management was among the best in West Africa
with transmission and distribution losses of the order of 10 to 11%, close
to the technically achievable limits. Since then, the situation has
deteriorated as losses have climbed to the 13-16% range, and the estimated
costs of such illegal electricity consumption and inefficiency now reach
US$10 million per year. This combination of low operating efficiency and
weak financial management brought the company into progressively deeper
financial difficulties as losses piled up, and finally EECI became unable
to honor its debt service obligations.
66.      The issues behind the disappointing performance of the electricity
subsector are complex and manifold. Firstly, the subsector suffers from
institutional shortcomings that stem largely from the concession system.
The original advantage of this system, being the attraction of private
capital to a field of public monopoly, has disappeared with the
transformation of EECI into a vir:ually entirely State-owned company. The
system's main current disadvantages are, first, that divided ownership of
assets obscures the view of sector operations as a whole. Second, the
concession system implies that responsibility for investments is shared
between the utility and Government. The inherent ambiguities have given
rise to weak and uncoordinated planning, with Government taking the lead in
the construction of hydro power stations and EECI engaging in a vast
electrification program in the interior of the country as well as expansion
of thermal generating capacity. Third, the accounting rules of the
concession system imply in effect double depreciation of assets in the
"domaine concede". The result has been understatement of income (and
reduction of tax liability in profitable years), distortion in indicators
of financial performance, and complications in setting rational tariffs.



- 24 -
67.      Moreover, a diagnostic study of EECI completed in 1988 has
highlighted the utility's overly centralized management, the absence of
communication among responsible technical directorates, and a definite lack
of accountability on the part of senior management. This has resulted in
deficiencies in systematic planning and integration of management decisions
on investments, finances and construction programming, and the absence of
internal checks-and-balances that could have prevented unsound investment
and operating decisions. EECI has pioneered the education and training of
Ivorian staff who now have attained a high level of skills.  However, this
effort has not prevented poor management of the company as a whole;
management of human resources is weak, a phenomenon that is illustrated by
lack of operating procedures and, in the operational field, a serious
backlog of preventive maintenance, despite the satisfactory state of
technical knowledge. Similar weaknesses are apparent in the lack of
procedures for detailed budgeting and budget control, while the company's
financial accounting has been deficient to a point that has led the
external auditors to express significant reservations concerning EECI's
accounts.
68.      The second set of issues relates to the disappointing returns
shown by EECI's past investments, and to the stagnation of the current
investment program. The Kossou and Taabo hydropower stations on the
Bandama River, commissioned in 1972 and 1979 respectively, have suffered
most from the drought cycle and subsequently from poor management of the
multi-annual water storage in the Kossou Reservoir, which has left the
system short of the reserves necessary to cope with hydrological
uncertainties. The two 75 MW thermal units at Vridi remain vulnerable to
breakdowns, despite a program of major repairs. No new investment in
generating plant is ongoing at the present time as capacity is adequate to
accommodate a load growth of 3.5% per year until 1996.
69.      There is no significant program to extend transmission and
distribution networks at the present time. The high-voltage network (225
and 90kV), necessary to serve most of the country's present needs, is
already in place. However, primary and secondary distribution extension to
urban areas, which would boost EECI's operating revenues, has practically
come to a standstill for lack of funds. A large volume of equipment
(destined to complete several loops in the 225 kV and 90 kV distribution
systems and to electrify mostly rural areas) already delivered to Cote
d'Ivoire at considerable cost, is now in storage pending availability of
funds for installation.
70.      Cote d'Ivoire has had an extremely ambitious program of rural
electrification. Government's and EECI's policy in this area was motivated
by the desire to make electricity accessible to the population at large as
quickly as possible, to slow down rural-urban migration, and to shut down
expensive diesel generation in isolated load centers. However, development
was not always based on adequate economic analysis, and neither the pace of
investment nor the conditions of all the loans took account of the
financial situation of EECI. Rural electrification has therefore
contributed significantly to EECI's financial difficulties. The main
questions are now: (i) what to do with about US$60 million worth of
delivered equipment that is stockpiled for lack of funds for installation;



- 25 -
and (ii) how to reorient the long term planning of rural electrification in
conjunction with development of other sectors, especially transport and
agriculture.
71.      The rural electrification program was to some extent carried out
at the expense of urban electrification, because new rural electrification
has absorbed internally generated cash flows which deprived existing urban
networks of the funds to connect new customers. Since many families of
modest means are awaiting connection, this stagnation has a decidedly
negative social as well as financial impact. Preliminary surveys have
identified the possibility of connecting rapidly at least 40,000 new low-
voltage customers (1.1% of the existing clientele). The investments would
have a payback period of at most three to four years. Hence a shift of
investment priorities toward urban distribution is clearly necessary.
72.      The third set of issues concerns the utility's operational
efficiency. EECI's good track record of continuity of service has tended
to detract from high costs and inefficiencies in all aspects of its
operations. In electricity generation the utility has been plagued by low
operating efficiency of its hydro plants, as mentioned before. Preventive
maintenance of the Vridi thermal power station has also been inadequate.
Transmission has been affected by frequent interruptions; and distribution
has suffered from equipment damage and fires at substations resulting from
unreliable protection, from insufficient coordination of commercial
operations and accounting with the financial department, and from
inadequate controls to reduce technical and commercial losses. Finally,
construction projects in the electricity subsector have demonstrated that
EECI's project management capabilities are generally weak, that procedures
for procurement are lacking, and again, that coordination of accounting for
work in progress with the financial department is inadequate.
73.      The culmination of these various issues has been reflected in
EECI's financial performance which has been deteriorating since the
beginning of the 1980's (financial results for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 1988 are given in Annex VII). Over the last three years,
losses of nearly US$60 million per year on average have been incurred, and
working capital stood at minus CFAF 33 billion in 1987 and minus CFAF 21
billion in 1988, compared to working capital requirements of CFAF 22
billion. EECI's debt service had risen in 1988 to about half of its gross
aumual revenue of CFAF 100 billion per year. On the income side, EECI's
internal financial problems were compounded by overdue bills, in particular
for electricity used by Government and by the so-called "Autonomes"
(parastatal agencies and municipalities). Arrears from the central
government remain excessive, reflecting its tight budgetary situation as
well as cumbersome administrative procedures. Accounts receivable (both
public and private consumers) now stand at about 128 days' sales. This
combination of high operating costs, escalating debt service and virtually
stagnant revenues has produced a series of cash flow deficits that add up
to almost US$100 million for the latest five fiscal years.
74.      Given EECI's excessive exposure, new bank loans have not been
forthcoming to finance these deficits, and EECI has turned to short term
loans and subsequently to bank overdrafts; as these approached the ceiling



- 26 -
set by commercial banks, the company eventually fell behind on payment to
its suppliers. The cost of the bank overdraft and the interest on overdue
payments to suppliers now reaches US$10 million per year. Finally, as the
cash constraint became even more severe, EECI was forced to suspend payment
of most of its debt service to the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissementt at
which point the financial crisis of the utility spilled over to the
financial accounts of the Government. On March 31, 1989, EECI's reported
debt to the State (net of US$80 million of receivables of State and
parapublic enterprises on electricity bills and tax refunds) stood at
US$200 million.
75.      Given the urgency of the situation the utility has already moved
to implement certain immediate stabilization measures of its financial
restructuring plan (para. 104), and these are reflected in the improvement
in EECI's half-yearlv accounts of March 31, 1989. However, merely
stabilizing short-term liabilities by cutting operating expenses will not
be sufficient. The financial gap which is presently financed through short
term debt, bank overdraft and arrears to suppliers, must be filled through
longer maturity, less expensive instruments. Immediate unreschedulable
short term liabilities (bank overdrafts, fuel bills, other suppliers
invoices, etc.) are estimated to reach US$100 million, while total
financial obligations that will eventually need settlement or rescheduling
--including short-term obligations--will exceed US$300 million.
Pricing and Tariffs
76.      In the hydrocarbons sector, Government sets product prices to the
final consumer by decree, specifying ex-refinery prices, a multiplicity of
taxes and special levies, transport equalization charges and distributors'
and retailers' margins. Originally, ex-refinery prices were set quarterly
on the basis of SIR's revenue requirements, defined by the break-even point
with costs of supplying the domestic market and exports to Mali and Burkina
Faso, including debt service. Under SAL III, good progress was made with
regard to more efficient pricing of refinery inputs and outputs. All
crude, including domestic production, is now purchased at the prices
prevailing on the international market, and wholesale product prices on the
domestic market are indexed to import parity.   The principle of product
pricing related to world market conditions has thus been accepted although
the Government will continue to levy a surcharge to cover the service of
SIR's debt, contracted in 1984. This will have been repaid by 1991.
77.      The main issue now relates to the fact that, on average, taxation
increases ex-refinery prices by a factor of 2.5, except for heavy fuel oil
for electric power generation which is priced at cif parity plus 10%.
Retail prices of petroleum products are therefore among the highest in West
Africa. Although ex-refinery prices have been reduced since 1984, this
change has been more than offset at the retail level by higher taxes and
special charges. Retail prices are rigidly controlled, and the absolute
level of petroleum prices imposes a growing burden on end-users in the
productive sectors of the economy. This high fiscal burden is illustrated
in the table below:



- 27 -
Table 8: Petroleum Product Price Structure
(1989)
(FCFA per Litre)    Premium Regular Kerosene  Diesel   Fuel /
Ex-refinery Prico     82.94   76.11   83.70   81.08  65.00
Intermediation Costs    27.00   23.42   20.42   18.82    6.28
Taxes                 170.56  160.68   66.40   96.11   82.61
Special Levies        69.61   66.94   30.49   50.02    P.47
Consumer Price        860    326    200    246    101
Taxes and Lovies (#)   68.6    69.7    47.9    59.2    40.5
1/ Excluding fuel sold to EECII
78.      Although electricity tariffs in Cote d'Ivoire do not compare
unfavorably with those of neighbouring countries in the 'FAF zone 1/,
their high level in absolute terms places a significant burden on the
productive sectors of the economy and is a source of hardship for the more
vulnerable population groups. The electricity rate structure, introduced
in 1981, was developed in the anticipation that the Soubre hydroelectric
plant would be the next power source. Because of the postponement of that
project and reduced energy output from existing hydropower plants, the
shares of both electricity imports and thermal energy have become larger
than assumed in the cost structure, with a consequent shift from fixed to
variable costs. The most recent rate increase (in February 1984) partly
compensated for this change, albeit in an ad hoc manner. The link between
tariff and long-run marginal costs no longer exists because of the reduced
load growth and the lack of redefined investment program. The issue
therefore is the absence of a tariff policy based on an updated investment
program and linked to EECI's standards of performance, rather than on
arbitrary indexing formulas. A subsidiary problem is the fact that the
medium-voltage tariff allows customers to operate at as low as 0.8 power
factor, thus forcing EECI to make considerable investments in capacitors.
Planning and Supervision
79.      At the Government level, serious deficiencies exist with respect
to coherent sector-wide policy formulation, planning in each of the
subsectors, rationalization of investment programs, and formulation of
1/    Compared with non CFAF zone neighboring countries, however, COt. d'Ivoiroe's electricity tariffs
should be considered high.



- 28 -
least-cost energy development plans. As mentioned in para. 59 above, this
became quite clear in 1983 and 1984, when lack of coordination between
Government agencies blocked any joint approach to development of gas
reserves and electric power. The civil service lacks adequate staff to
work on energy policy formulation. Weak capabilities in the ministries
also impair the effective supervision of the parastatal energy enterprises
whose Boards of Directors have by and large failed to exercise their
mandate. The absence of supervision provides the enterprises with too much
freedom of action in good times, and it also inhibits timely communication
with Government in periods of crisis. It is necessary to clarify the
institutional framework, and to define clear lines of authority and
responsibility among Ministries, Boards of Directors and energy
enterprises.
PART III. SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
POLICY FRAMEWORK AND SECTORAL OBJECTIVES
80.      Aware of the important role to be played by the energy sector in
the structural transformation of the economy and the realization of its
growth prospects, the Government in early 1986 adopted a first set of
measures aimed at a reform of energy policies over the medium term. This
initial program, which was implemented through specific measures supported
by SAL III which took place in 1986, addressed three priority areas:
First, within the framework of Public Expenditure Reviews, the Government
drew up an interim investment program compatible with the country's
economic and financial constraints. To that effect, ceilings on short-term
investments in the sector were established and a study was commissioned to
prepare a medium-term investment plan for EECI. Second, Government took
measures to improve the institutional coordination of the sector and the
efficiency of sector enterprises. In that context, diagnostic studies of
EECI and PETROCI were commissioned as a first step towards the formulation
of specific restructuring programs, and extensive management reforms of SIR
were implemented. Finally, the Government started to address the energy
pricing issue, with an initial focus on ex-refinery prices of petroleum
products. While these measures were implemented, Government, aware of the
reluctance of foreign oil companies to invest in Cote d'Ivoire, also
initiated studies aimed at reforming the country's contractual framework
for hydrocarbon exploration and development.
81.      As part of the preparation of the proposed Energy Sector
Adjustment Loan (ESAL), the Government has moved towards the integration
and deepening of its reforms within a coherent sector framework. In its
Statement of Energy Policy (Annex III), the Government sets forth the
following objectives for a comprehensive program of energy policy reforms
in the context of the macroeconomic adjustment under way in Cote d'Ivoire:



- 29 -
(i)   clarifying institutional relationships among energy enterprises
and their supervisory ministries, as well as the development of
mechanisms for sector-wide coordination;
(ii)  improving resource development and investment planning, including
mobilization of private sector finance;
(iii) increasing the operational efficiency and financial management of
energy enterprises; and
(iv)  improving the use and allocation of resources in the energy sector
as well as in the economy as a whole through rationalization of
pricing, including selective energy price reductions to enhance
the competitive position of the productive sectors.
Based on the foregoing objectives, the Government has formulated an Action
Plan which contains a detailed list of measures, and specific dates for
their implementation. Progress on the Action Plan will be monitored over
and above the specific conditions set for tranche release of the ESAL. It
is presented attached as part of the Statement of Energy Policy (Annex III)
and summarized in the matrix below.
COTE ODIVOIRE
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POUCY MATRIX
MAIN POLICY ISSUE              MEASURES ALREADY TAKEN          MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
I INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
* Lack of clear                 SIR (Roftnery):                  GESTOCI (petroleum
objectives for energy                                         product storage
s*ctor enterprieos.        - Diagnostic study.                enterprise):
- Organizational
* Lack of well-defined          rostructuring.               -  Adoption of commerciul
legal framework for        - Takeover of procuroment          operattions, by leasing
sector activities.           and marketing activities         facilities to petroleum
from PETROCI.                    Industry operators.
* Confusion concerning       - Streamlining of rofinery
responsibilities in          managment: reduction in
sector.                      personnel (expatriate in
particular); and
Improved budgeting and
cost control.
PETROCI (Petroloum               PETROCI (Petroleum
PuTTcEntorprIso):                FuTlrcEnterprise)
- Diagnostic Study.            -  Ongoing restructuring
to Improve Its
efficiency.



- 30 -
MAIN POLICY ISSUE                   MEASURES ALREADY TAKEN              MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
EECI (Power Utility):                EECI (Power Utility):
- Diagnostic Study.                 -   R-vision of the public
service concession
arrangement for
electricity *upply.
II   RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
AND INVESTMENT
PLANNING
A.  Hydrocarbon
Exploration and
Dovelopment                    - Revision of the                   -   A promotion campaign
contractual framework                for offshore
* Lack of Incentives for            govorning exploration                 exploration acreage to
oil ond gaS                      and production (several               commo nce In oarly 1990,
*xploration and                  companies already                     to attract fresh
development.                     discussing with                       venture capital for
government),                         exploration and
production.
- Development of a new
offshore oil/gas field
on the basis of revised
fical tterms, by a
consortium of
international oil
companies.
- Invitation to                     -   Negotiations with the
International oil                    private sector for
companios for                        development of the
development of Foxtrot               Foxtrot oso Field.
gas field using equity
financing.
B.   Electric Power
Investment Planning
* Suboptimal generation           - Study of medium-term              -   Preparation of 10 Year
expansion and                     Investment options for               Investment Programs for
underdeveloped                   EECI.                                 generation and high-
distribution,                                                          voltage tronsmission,
- Cancellation of *Il                   Includ ng study of
Investments not                      envirote...ntol impact of
Justified on economic                potential lnvostments.
grounds.
- Pursuit of urban
electrification
programs with high
economic rate of
return, and other high
priority investments.
III. OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY
AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
PETROCI:
* Excess personnel.               - Preparation of a                  -   Implementation of the
Personnel Roduction                  Personnel Reduction
Plan.                                Plan.
SIR:
* Lack of financial               - Preparation of an annual
planning.                        three-year rolling
financial plan.



- 31 -
MAIN POLICY ISSUE                  MEASURES ALREADY TAKEN                MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
*  Excess personnel, poor         - Preparation of a Human             -   Implementation of the
skills mix.                       Resources Management                  Human Resources
Plan.                                 Managemont Plon.
Petroleum Product
Distribution
*  Excessivo distribution         - Preparati.n of a                   -   Implementstion of the
capacity and overhead             Distributicn                          Distribution
costs.                            Restructuring Master                  Restructuring Master
Plan.                                 Plan.
EECI:
*  Inefficient operation          - Diagnostic studies.                -   Adoption of performance
of facilitios,                                                          contract between
Resumption of correct                 utility and Government.
multi-annual operation
of hydro storage                 -   Installation of a new
reserves to ensure                    customer management
security of supply.                   system to improve
efficiency of revenue
collection.
- Implementation of new
management Information
system.
* Poor financial management         - contracting of technical           -   New budgeting and
and accounting.                      assistance, tralning and              pyme nt procedures by
reorganization of                     public and parapublic
finance directorate of                sectors, aimed at a
EECI.                                 regular settloent of
billngs for
- Reduction in EECI annual              electricity
operating expenses,                   consumption.
- Complete overhaul of tho
financial management and
production of semi-
annual cortifiable
accounts.
* Chronic deficit financing         - Diagnostic study of EECI           -   Completion of financial
and accumulation of                  finance.,                             restructuring of EECI.
short-term debts.



- 32 -
MAIN POLICY ISSUE              MEASURES ALREADY TAKEN            MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
IV. ENERGY PRICING
* Distorted producer prices     - producer prices               -  Monitoring of SIR's
for petroleum products           overhauled to provide            finances and adjustment
provide incorrect signals        adequate incentives to           of *x-refinery prices
at production level,            the refinery,                     to import parity.
* High level of consumer        - Adoption of an Import         -  Implementation of new
prices for petroleum             parity pricing formula           petroleum product
products burdening other        fer ex-refinery prices,           pricing and texation
soctora of the economy.                                           system.
- Agreement between
Government and Ivorian
distribution companies
on rationalization of
petroleum product
distribution.
- Reduction of consumer
prices of petroleum
products.
* Electricity tariffs                                           -  Interim adjustments of
distorted and outdated;                                           tariffs for industry
loss of rational economic                                         and low-income
and financial criteria,                                           residential consumers.
-  Review of electricity
tariffs taking account
of EECI's Investment
program.
THE HYDROCARBON SUBSECTOR
82.       Under the Government's reform program, the restructured
hydrocarbons subsector will place a much larger emphasis on operating
efficiency and on promotion of private sector participation. For upstream
activities involving petroleum exploration and production, this involves
calling on international oil companies for exploration, development and
financing, while Government participation in these activities will be
limited to a monitoring role; downstream, the refinery will continue its
improvements in operating efficiency, while storage and distribution of
petroleum products will be rationalized and prices revised. Finally,
taxation of petroleum products will be simplified and amended to reduce the
fiscal burden on the productive sectors.



- 33 -
Institutional Framework
83.      Rationalization of the institutional framework of the hydrocarbon
sector was initiated with the completion of a diagnostic study of PETROCI
(a condition o2 SAL III).  The Government accepted three major
recommendations of the study: (i) redirecting the corporation's role
towards the core activities of promotion of exploration and production;
(ii) strengthening PETROCI's holding function managing Government's
participations in petroleum subsector enterprises; and (iii) enabling
PETROCI to provide technical support to Government in monitoring the
sector. The renewed emphasis on the promotion of exploration and
production will require a substantial reorganization of the enterprise. A
restructuring plan was drawn up in June 1988 and is being implemented at
the present time. Its progress will be monitored as a condition for the
release of the third tranche of the ESAL. It comprises: (i) strengthening
of Exploration/Production Divisions, including technical assistance; (ii)
eliminating PETROCI's remaining activities related to products trading,
with a consequent reduction in staff; and (iii) implementing retraining
programs to minimize the social cost of restructuring. In line with the
PETROCI's new focus, the Hydrocarbons Directorate of the Ministry of Mines
will henceforth assure the supervisory function in the petro-leum subsector
to monitor the operations of all the subsector operators (ircluding those
of the private sector). PETROCI will however provide technizal input to
the Ministry for the formulation of policy.
Resource Development
84.      Encouraging development of Cote d'Ivoire's indigenous resources of
crude oil and natural gas requires a substantial revision of the legal and
contractual terms governing this activity. To this end, a revised
contractual framework for oil and gas exploration has been prepared by the
Ministry of Mines, and will be adopted during Cote d'Ivoire's exploration
promotion campaign scheduled for early 1990 (para. 86). This is the first
significant revision to the system of incentives in petroleum exploration
and production since the last production-sharing model contract was drawn
up in 1975, and constitutes from all points of view a major improvement
over the existing document. It provides for new fiscal incentives for
foreign companies and substantially clarifies the role to be played by
PETROCI in exploration and production activities. This model contract is
of the production-sharing kind, like the majority of petroleum
exploration/production contracts elsewhere in the world. Particular
attention has been paid to minimizing the political risk as perceived by
the oil company stemming from PETROCI's participation, and to making the
fiscal terms more attractive. The new contract terms have also been
broadened to make reference to natural gas, reflecting the new perception
that hydrocarbon finds will henceforth as likely be gas as oil.
85.            Although the new model contract will only become official in
early 1990, the new fiscal terms drawn up in the framework of the ESAL have
already been applied to the renegotiation between the Government of Cote
d'Ivoire and a consortium of international petroleum companies on the CEP2
field in the east of the country (para. 47). This revision in the terms
has provided sufficient incentive to the operator to undertake significant
new appraisal work (including an extremely dense three-dimensional seismic



- 34 -
analysis of the structure costing several million dollars), in a new bid to
determine whether development of the field is financially viable.
86.            The revision of the contractual framework thus removes a
critical obstacle which has deterred international oil companies from
providing risk capital and technical expertise for the exploration of Cate
d'Ivoire's sedimentary basins. However, to mobilize fresh interest in the
country's petroleum potential, it is equally necessary to launch an
exploration promotion campaign. PETROCI has laid the groundwork for such a
campaign by completing in February 1988 a major geological study of Cote
d'Ivoire's offshore basins. The synthesis of all available data is
providing the basis for the promotion of available acreage. A consulting
firm has been retained to examine the synthesis study, to complete the
information as necessary, and to prepare the promotional package before the
end of February 1990. This promotion campaign will be monitored as a
condition for release of the second tranche of the ESAL.
87.            The prospects of developing the Foxtrot gas field (para. 59)
depend on the outcome of ongoing commercial negotiations with new partners,
following the withdrawal of the foreign members of the consortium that made
the discovery. Simultanecusly, the Ivoirian entities are preparing an
update of economic studies of power supply by gas-fired thermal or hydro
plant, and of substitution for fuel and butane now consumed in the refinery
by natural gas. This work is scheduled to be completed by the end of 1989,
and will define the parameters for negotiations with the private sector
partner(s). Meanwhile, the requirement to replace existing thermal
generating capacity during the 1990's imposes limits on the delay of a
decision as to what alternative can be accepted. The Government has
established the cut-off date of June 1990 for the definition of an electric
power sector investment program (see para. 98) taking into account all the
various options, including in particular the use of natural gas from
Foxtrot for electricity generation. Should an acceptable arrangement be
reached with a private sector partner for development of the field, there
will also be considerable scope to alleviate the fuelwood situation by
substitution of this energy source in the household sector with liquefied
petroleum gas (LPG) made available at the refinery as a result of its
switch to natural gas. The details for this substitution will be worked
out in the National Energy Plan, to be prepared with grant funding under
this operation (see para, 119).
Operational Efficiency and Financial Management
88.            The diagnostic study of PETROCI included an assessment of
its sources of revenue and financial reserves as well as a financial
management plan aimed at assuring exploration and development activities
with minimum risk of the enterprise becoming dependent on the Government
treasury. This plan is currently being implemented. It includes a strict
control of head office operating expenses and investment plans, via
periodic reviews of the company's financial targets. The diagnostic study
also contained recommendations concerning the reduction of personnel. On
the basis of these, PETROCI prepared a redundancy plan for the company that
will lead to a reduction in staff numbers of over 80 persons, or one staff
member in three.



- 35 -
89.            The reform program of SIR that began under SAL III will be
extended to improve the operational efficiency of the refinery. Management
is being strengthened by implementing more effective information systems
and by a personnel restructuring program aimed at phasing out of excess
staff. Continued progress in the implementation of this restructuring
program is a condition for the release of the third tranche of the ESAL.
Among the technical measures, the most important one is the introduction of
a computerized on-line mass-balance system that is permitting close
monitoring of cefinery losses against objectives agreed upon with the
Directorate of Hydrocarbons. Maintenance programs are being revised and
made more cost-effective. Moreover, SIR has rented additional storage
capacity from GESTOCI (see para. 90 below), a move that will significantly
increase SIR's operating flexibility by allowing the refinery to produce
and export products which do not correspond to Cote d'Ivoire's
specifications. Financial planning has already been improved by the
introduction of revolving three-year operating plans as of March 1988.
90.      GESTOCI will contribute to greater efficiency of energy supply and
will improve its own financial performance by adopting a more aggressive
commercial strategy, i.e. by actively seeking to rent out its surplus
storage capacity. Of GESTOCI's surplus tankage amounting to over 200,000
m3, four tanks of a total of 130,000 m3 have already been leased to the
adjacent refinery. Heads of Agreement were drawn up and signed between
GESTOCI and SIR in February 1988 and a contract entered into effect in
April 1988. The shareholders have also requested GESTOCI's management to
increase its efforts to put the remaining surplus to use by providing
throughput to petroleum product distributors. GESTOCI will pursue a
strategy of seeking offshore clients for its storage capacity, initially
the Governments of Mali and Burkina Faso. The longer-term objective is the
attraction of petroleum product traders operating in the region, who would
use GESTOCI as bonded storage for third party traders operating in West
Africa. In parallel with these measures, the Government is studying more
efficient ways of attaining its strategic storage objectives, including a
reduction from 60 to 45 days' consumption.
91.      The efficiency of the distribution system of petroleum products
will be improved significantly. About one gasoline station in three is
expected eventually to be closed as well as half the storage depots, and
petroleum product supply systems will be rationalized by mergers of supply
operations amongst the private sector distribution companies. Government
and the distribution companies are in the process of developing a
Distribution Master Plan, to be finalized by June 1990, which will be
coordinated with development plans in the transport sector. This Master
Plan will summarize the understanding between the Government and the sector
on, first, the incentive framework which will govern the restructuring,
including revision of wholesale and retail distribution margins, and
second, the rationalization effort to be undertaken by the private sector
including closure of surplus storage and distribution capacity. The
implementation of this Plan will be closely coordinated with the private
sector; Government will do its share by removing distortions in the
incentives system (see para. 109 below concerning revisions to the price-
setting mechanism).
92.      In conclusion, the specific action program to be supported by the
proposed ESAL in the hydrocarbon subsector consists of reorganization of



- 36 -
PETROCI; revision of the contractual framework for oil and gas exploration
and development; completion of the management reorganization of SIR;
commercialization of GESTOCI; and rationalization of the petroleum product
distribution system through revision of prices and the incentives
framework.
THE ELECTRICITY SUBSECTOR
93.      The Government and EECI have initiated a comprehensive reform
program for the electric power sector that is aimed at institutional
streamlining, reorienting and developing of short-, medium- and long-term
investment programs, improving operational efficiency, strengthening
financial management and reviewing tariffs. Furthermore, the financial
position of EECI, weakened as it is by the macroeconomic and management
problems as well as the adverse streamflow conditions it has experienced
since 1982, calls for a phased restructuring program that Government will
implement as part of the ESAL. Such a program is urgently required to
restore EECI's creditworthiness. Moreover, a sounder financial structure
will. enable cost savings to be made, that can be passed through to the
consumer--and particularly the poorer household consumers and the
productive sectors--in the form of lower tariffs.
94.      The formulation and execution of the reform program for the power
subsector was launched by a series of studies carried out within the
framework of SAL IIIt and followed up by more detailed analyses. EECI
management commissioned a diagnostic study of the utility's relations witn
the State, as well as of EECI's internal organization; a generation
planning study covering the period 1987-1997 (including a review of the
efficiency of the existing system); and an inventory of work in progress.
Subsequent studies (completed in 1988) included the preparation of a plan
for EECI's financial restructuring; specific recommendations concerning the
reform of the legal framework of the electricity subsector; and the
drafting of a performance contract. The implementation of the results of
these st-dies has already started and will continue to be monitored as
specific conditions for the release of the second and third tranches of the
ESAL (see below).
The Institutional Framework
95.      Although the consultant's report of March 1988 (see para.67)
initially recommended complete replacement of the concession system by a
mandate to EECI to provide the public electricity service to Cote d'Ivoire,
this was judged impractical. Rather, a decision was taken by Government to
make adaptations within the framework of the existing law to eliminate the
most obvious disadvantages of the concession system. Therefore, practical
reforms will be incorporated in ancillary legal instruments, including --
in particular -- periodic performance contracts between EECI and the State.
The first such performance contract, to be prepared by March 1990 as a
condition for the releare of the second tranche of the ESAL, will cover,
first: obligations of EhCI concerning staffing, remuneration, operating
expenses, internal reorganization, investment programming, procurement,
customer relations, financial management and technical improvements; and
second, obligations of the Government concerning payment of arrears on



- 37 -
electricity consumption, authorization of tariff changes, fiscal and other
interim measures related to EECI's financial restructuring. Where
appropriate, the performance contract will also contain specific
targets/performance criteria. The contract will also make provision for
the mechanism of future updates. Its signing is a condition for the
release of the third tranche of the ESAL.
96.      The internal reorganization of EECI has been started by
streamlining the unwieldy overhead structure. On the basis of the
diagnostic study carried out in 1988, the number of directorates within the
organization was reduced from 14 to 5, and the staff redeployed in November
1988. The attention is now being directed to the micro-level, as all large
operating directorates within EECI need internal reorganization. This
important element of the reform program will be carried out in stages, with
the help of consultants and technical assistants, mostly financed under
bi]lateral assistance.
Resource Development and Investment Planning
97.      Following the establishment of investment ceilings in 1986 and the
virtual freeze on all ongoing construction in 1987, EECI's consultants
completed in January 1988 a survey of work in progress, indicating the need
for more detailed planning of short-term investments and extensive training
in project management. EECI took action on this recommendation by:
(i)   engaging consultants under ESMAP financing to undertake an
operational audit of the Vridi thermal power station and assess
the cost-effectiveness of the planned program of the remaining
major repairs (estimated cost US$24 million) 1/;
(ii) reviewing the financing and construction of priority extensions of
urban distribution networks totalling US$12 million; and
(iii) initiating negotiations with consultants to review in detail the
planning and execution of halted rural and semi-urban
electrification projects totalling US$100 million.
Based on this ongoing work, a program for the short-term investments in
Vridi and the urban extensions will be established by June 1990. The
revised planning of outstanding electrification programs will be ready in
December 1990, in conjunction with the implementation of the financial
restructuring program (para. 103).  Government has committed itsel' to
assist in the financing of future rural electrification that does not
produce adequate financial returns for EECI but is economically attractive
when externalities are taken into account. A socio-economic study, within
the framework of the National Energy Plan, will assess on what future
priorities the available Government funds should be spent. Based on the
results, Government will formulate a long-term rural electrification policy
by the end of 1990.
1/ Thermal generation capacity at Vridi is being upgraded on the basis of the findings of this mission
and EECI has recruited technical assistants for training In the operation and maintenance of the
power station.



- 38 -
98.      For the medium-term, the options for generation expansion have
been defined by the planning study completed as part of the SAL III.
Current prospects for load growth indicate that a decision on the next step
of the investment program cannot be postponed much longer; moreover,
decisions on new generating capacity are linked to replacement needs for
existing high cost thermal units that are nearing the end of their useful
life. Government has committed itself to adopt a new 10-year power
development program before mid-1990, and this is a condition for the
release of the third tranche of the ESAL. An assessment of the longer term
prospects for development beyond 2000 requires better knowledge of the
hydro potential of the Sassandra and the Cavally rivers. They traverse the
forested western part of the country, which is much less vulnerable to
droughts than the central and eastern regions. Development of the
Sassandra River started in 1980 with the commissioning of the Buyo hydro
dam and power station, and it would be followed by the Soubre project
downstream.
Operational Efficiency and Financial Management
99.      As concerns operational efficiency, EECI has acted on most of the
important findings of the studies initiated under SAL III. A key problem
of the existing generation system is the correct operation of the multi-
annual storage in the Kossou Reservoir, in conjunction with thermal
generation. For the fiscal years 1987/88 and 1988/89, EECI has prepared
and followed operating plans based on recommended reservoir rule curves,
resulting in a substantial improvement of the output of the Taabo
hydroplant and the adherence to targets for refilling of the Kossou
Reservoir. This change of operational practice removes a persistent
uncertainty concerning EECI's short-term supply capability. As part of its
performance contract (para. 95), EECI will be asked to submit such annual
plans each year to the Ministry of Industry and Plan, with provision in the
budget for corresponding fuel expenses. The efficiency of hydro plant
operations will be further improved by instituting recommended procedures
for water accounting 1/.
100.     In the areas of transmission and distribution, EECI is taking
measures to stop the deterioration of existing facilities. Technical
assistance will be recruited to reinforce preventive maintenance, and to
prepare with EECI staff a program of investments in rehabilitation,
including protection and metering equipment. Better instrumentation will
also enable EECI to identify sources of technical losses. The commercial
operations of the distribution department are being strengthened with the
primary objective of reducing non-technical losses. EECI management has
negotiated CIDA-financed technical assistance over two years to reduce
losses by a combination of management tools and small investments in
equipment. Quantitative targets are being developed as part of the
program, which will be managed by ESMAP. The distribution department has
completed the installation of a new computerized system for management of
low-voltage customers. Finally, the revenue accounting operations of the
1/ EECI Is also paying increased attention to dam safety. Ivoritn engineers have beon trained in
surveillance of hydraulic structures and their findings will be reviewed periodically by
international experts. The first annual Inspection report will ba submitted before the third tranche
of the ESAL.



- 39 -
distribution department are being closely coordinated with those of the
financial department, to strengthen EECI's cash management and system of
financial controls.
101.     EECI has taken further action to remedy the problem  in the
construction department that were diagnosed during the inventory of work-
in-progress. The utility is negotiating with consultants in order to,
first, prepare a revised and downgraded construction program for the major
interrupted rural electrification projects and, second, provide project
management training to all EECI units responsible for construction
activities. At the same time, internal procedures will be established for
procurement. Construction accounting will be coordinated with and
controlled by the financial department.
102.     On the financial front, EECI has moved rapidly to implement a
series of corrective measures in an effort to contain the growing financial
crisis and to prepare the ground for consolidation and financial
restructuring. The most important step towards long-term improvement has
been the contracting of outside consultants in 1987 with line
responsibility for accounting and cash management functions. As part of
their assignment, the consultants evaluated EECI's financial situation at
the end of FY's 1986187, 1987(88, and mid-FY 1988/89; introduced semi-
annual financial reporting; prepared and largely implemented a plan for
reorganization of the finance department; and completed a coripany-wide
audit of management information systems and needs. The accounts for EECI's
fiscal year ending September 30, 1988, now reflect corrections of most
errors in the accounts for fixed assets. Other priority measures taken
include the introduction of detailed budget control systems for EECI's next
fiscal year; the establishment of an integrated system of financial
accounting, management accounting and budgeting; a detailed inventory of
assets and work in progress; and the reinforcement of financial controls in
all departments concerned.
103.     In December 1987, a study of the financial restructuring of the
utility was commissioned, which was completed in March 1988. By mid-1988,
Government and EECI had agreed on a comprehensive restructuring plan which
involved a substantial injection of fresh capital into the utility.
However, even before the plan could be implemented the worsening economic
climate in Cote d'Ivoire placed it in jeopardy as the key assumption about
the availability of these funds for EECI proved to be unrealistic, and by
early 1989 the plan was off-track and had to be abandoned. A revised
version was drawn up in mid-1989 which the Government considers to be more
realistic concerning macroeconomic assumptions, assuming that Cate d'Ivoire
will fill its public finance gap in 1990 and return to a growth path from
1991 on, as well as assuming the availability of external financing for
EECI. This plan is being implemented at the present time.
104.     The revised financial restructuring plan contains two sets of
measures: first, those aimed at paying off a portion of EECI's short term
liabilities (arrears to suppliers and bank overdraft in particular), as
these pose the greatest danger to the utility and weigh most heavily on its
income statement.  The second set of measures are aimed at restructuring
those of EECI's liabilities that cannot be paid off (essentially converting
their maturities from short to longer term), in order to improve its
balance sheet and restore financial equilibrium. The measures to pay off



- 40 -
liabilities over the short term include actions targeted at reducing
receivables on the asset side of the balance sheet, to induce a one-off
injection of funds; an important step in this context is the introduction
of a system of budgeting and payment of bills by the Government to reduce
receivables from the public sector (the implementation of which is a
condition of third tranche release). As concerns the restructuring of the
utility's liabilities, the key measures are consolidation of EECI's cross-
debts with Government, and the rescheduling of EECI's internal debt to the
Caisse Autonome amounting to $187 million in five phases. These long term
instruments will enable EECI to consolidate its balance sheet by shifting
its short term debt to longer maturities, and thus allow it not only to pay
off its remaining arrears to suppliers and its bank overdraft, but also to
resume serving fully its outstanding debt to the Caisse Autonome during
1991.
105.     This revised financial restructuring plan is more robust than the
previous version, although it will need periodic updating. The series of
immediate measures will enable EECI to honor its most important short-term
obligations and continue its operations. Detailed financial projections,
based on the complete financial restructuring including the rescheduling
operations between Government and EECI, have been established and are
summarized in Annex VII. These show that the combination of the
improvements in operational efficiency on the one hand and financial
restructuring on the other will bring EECI back to a profit situation by
1992. This will be accompanied by an improvement by 1993 of shareholders'
equity as a proportion of permanent capital, which will rise from 40% to
50%, and of debt service coverage, which will increase from its present
ratio of 0.7 to 1.6. As a matter of fact, the immediate stabilization
measures already implemented by EECI are beginning to show positive
results: annual operating expenses excluding fuel have declined by 25% with
respect to 1987, and short term liabilities have been reduced by US$40
million or nearly one-third of the total. This, together with a reduction
in expenditure for fuel which has resulted from improved streamflows and
greater use of hydroelectric resources, has induced a turn-around of the
corporation's net income from minus US$31 million for the first half of
FY1988, to minus US$6 million for the first half of FY1989 accompanied by a
significant positive cash flow, as well as a commencement in the
improvement of EECI's bank overdraft position and its arrears to suppliers.
106.     In conclusion, the specific action program to be supported by the
proposed ESAL in the electricity subsector will include, as institutional
measures, reorganization of EECI and the signature of an EECI performance
contract incorporating specific operational targets. Measures taken to
rationalize the investment program include completion of a revised short
term construction program, decision on the next major investment in
electric power generation facilities, and the preparation of a 10-year
investment program. In the domain of operational efficiency and financial
management, measures consist of imp_ementation of EECI's loss-reduction
program; implementation of the utility's program for technical assistance;
and completion of EECI's financial restructuring.



- 41 -
PRICING AND TARIFFS
107.     Better resource allocation through more efficient pricing is one
of the main objectives of the structural changes in the energy sector.
However, in this respect the Government faces important budgetary and
social constraints because the fiscal situation leaves limited room for
reducing the tax burden on consumers and producers. The energy reform
program nevertheless contains important steps to rationalize pricing
mechanisms, to provide targeted relief of the burden of high energy costs
for selected consumers/users, and to move away from the existing rigidity
of retail prices.
108.     Significant progress has been achieved already during the
preparatory phase of the ESAL with regard to the restructuring of ex-
refinery prices for petroleum products. The previous price-setting system,
based on the revenue needed to cover all the refinery's costs, was
abolished on December 31, 1987, and replaced with a formula based on import
parity. The new formula contains two parts: the first sets the overall
level of revenue based on crude oil import parity and an allowance for the
declining debt service; the second part sets individual product prices
based on product price differentials ruling on the international market.
This measure provides SIR management with incentives to reduce costs and
with the price signals necessary to optimize the running of the refinery.
Another important aspect of ex-refinery price reform is the decision to de-
link prices charged to Mali and Burkina Faso from domestic Ivorian prices,
and thus restoring SIR's competitive position vis-a-vis alternative sources
of procurement for the neighbouring Sahelian countries.
109.     Government has now turned its attention to reform of the retail
prices of petroleum products. Two important measures took effect in mid-
1989:
(1)   the retail price of butane was reduced, by passing on the
reduction of the ex-refinery price to the consumer, with a view to
encouraging conversion of households to butane and thus reduce
charcoal consumption and derived demand for wood; and
(ii)  the price of heavy fuel was cut, also by passing through the
reduction in the ex-refinery price, in order to reduce the cost of
energy to industry and improve its competitiveness.
These two measures did not entail any loss in fiscal revenues to the extent
that they resulted from a transfer of savings from the refinery to the
consumer.  For the future, the Government has committed itself to a more
profound restructuring of the entire petroleum retail price and fiscal
framework but this will have a significant fiscal impact. The timing of
the implementation thus depends on the identification of new tax programs
to offset losses of Government revenues. A study to this effect will be
completed by end-1990. However, agreement has been reached with the Bank
on the following principles that will guide future price-setting:
(i)     retail prices will henceforth vary with ex-refinery prices, so as
to provide economic signals to the consumer;



- 42 -
(ii)    attempts at price stabilization through the Stabilization Fund
(Caisse de Perequation) will be abandoned;
(iii)   the fiscal components of the price system will be simplified and
generalized to reduce the number of specific taxes and parafiscal
levies;
(iv)    the overall tax base will be broadened to increase collection, and
a portion of the existing petroleum excise levy will be replaced
by a value added tax (VAT) to enable reducti'.on of input costs to
the productive sectors; and
(v)     cost allowances for the distribution companies will be revised in
the light of the distribution master-plan drawn up in the
framework of the ESAL (para. 73), and adjusted to provide adequate
incentive for rationalizing their operations.
110.     These measures, to be implemented as a condition for the release
of the third tranche of the ESAL, will go a long way toward rationalizing
the petroleum product price system in Cote d'Ivoire, leading to retail
price adjustments between the various products that reconcile the dual
objectives of revenue collection on the one hand and productive sector
competitivity on the other. In essence this will mean a decrease in the
consumer price of products used in the productive sectors (diesel, fuel,
and gasoline for the transport sector) and for household energy (butane)
relative to those used for private transportation (gasoline).
111.     Electricity tariffs are due for a comprehensive review, but this
must await:
(i)   definition of short-, medium- and long-term investment plans of
EECI, to assess the desirable rate structure on the basis of
economic marginal costs; and
(ii)  completion of EECI's financial restructuring plan to the stage
that stable revenue requirements (governing the rate level) can be
defined.
Meanwhile, within the framework of EECI's restructuring plan, Government
has already committed itself to two interim measures aimed at addressing
the urgent need to reduce the cost of electricity to the economy. These
measures will benefit, first, the more vulnerable segments of the
population in an effort to offset some of the social costs of adjustment,
and second, the productive sectors of the economy in order to reduce the
cost of energy and improve their international competitiveness. These
measures are:
(i)   a 24% reduction of the low-voltage tariff for low-income
residential customers; and
(ii)  a 10% reduction of the medium-voltage tariff for industry, via the
introduction of a VAT component in the existing tariff. At about
the same time, the minimum power factor to be maintained by
medium-voltage customers will be increased from 0.80 to at least
0.84. This measure will reduce EECI's investment in capacitors,



- 43 -
improve the quality of electricity supply and partially compensate
the utility for its revenue loss.
The implementation of these two measures is a condition for the release of
the second tranche of the ESAL.
112.     In conclusion, measures to be supported by the proposed ESAL to
rationalize energy prices and tariffs will involve introduction of some
interim reductions in the prices of petroleum products, followed by an
entirely new retail pricing and taxation system for petroleum products.
Pesidential and industrial electricity tariffs will be reduced as an
interim measure, in preparation for a complete revision of the electricity
tarification system.
SECTOR PLANNING AND SUPERVISION
113.     The Government intends to strengthen the energy planning process
primarily by equipping the Ministry of Industry and Plan better for its
statutory planning function in the energy sector. The Directorate of
Infrastructure, which now has a department for conventional energy and an
energy conservation department, will add a third department for economic
and financial analysis of the energy sector. The new unit will concern
itself with energy policy development, economic and financial studies and
energy pricing. It will be supported by a small statistics group. The
Government proposes to develop the new department with support of external
technical assistance to be recruited and contracted. Supervision of the
parastatal energy enterprises will be reinforced by regular supervision of
the activities of Boards of Directors to improve their effectiveness and,
in the case of EECI, by signing of a performance contract in 1990 (see
para. 95).
PART IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
BACKGROUND
114.     So far, Bank support to Cote d'Ivoire's energy sector has been
essentially project-oriented and has focussed on the two main subsectors,
namely power and petroleum. A loan to EECI (Loan 1896-RCI, approved in
1980) financed investments in power subtransmission and primary
distribution ("centres araignees"). Although it also provided
institutional support in the form of training and consulting services and
served as a means to address a number of development issues in the
electricity subsector, Bank intervention in the area of policy reform was
limited. A second loan to EECI was planned to cofinance the Soubre
hydroelectric scheme, but the project was indefinitely postponed in 1984.
On the petroleum side, a loan to PETROCI (Loan 2189-RCI, approved in 1982)
financed investment in the exploration and development of hydrocarbons
offshore as well as a program of technical assistance to strengthen the
company's technical capabilities. However, unfavorable conditions in the
international environment for petroleum exploration and development forced



- 44 -
PETROCI to scale down its planned investments significantly and to request
cancellation of a substantial part of the loan.
115.     The inclusion of an energy sector component in the third
Structural Adjustment Loan, approved in June 1986, re-established the
Bank's involvement in the country's power and petroleum subsectors. It
also represented a first attempt by the Government to examine policy issues
in the energy sector as a whole and to define the first elements of an
energy sector strategy. The proposed Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL)
builds on the groundwork laid under SAL III and deepens the structural
adjustment process to ensure that the energy secto- can fully support the
recovery and growth of Cote d'Ivoire's economy. Government and the sector
agencies concerned have agreed on all objectives and on the essential
elements of the reform program.
116.     The proposed sector loan provides support for the implementation
of a comprehensive medium and long term policy framework for the energy
sector. This program will serve as a basis for the Bank's continued energy
lending program in Cote d'Ivoire, as well as provide an opportunity for
more effective coordination of external financing for the sector. The
proposed loan was prepared during tb,e second half of 1987 and appraised in
February 1988. AfDB participated in the appraisal mission, and EIB sent an
identification mission at the same time. Because of the absence of a
satisfactory macroeconomic framework, negotiations were delayed and only
took place in Washington from June 30 to July 10, 1989. The Ivorian
delegation was led by Mr. Antoine Cesareo, General Manager of DCGTx. A
loan summary is provided at the beginning of this report.
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
117.     An Energy Sector Adjustment Loan to the Government, in the amount
of US$100 million, is proposed for disbursement against general imports
(except for specified items) in three tranches, the first of US$30 million
and the following two tranches of US$35 million, over a one-year period.
The Bank has assisted the Government in identifying cofinanciers willing to
support the adjustment program. AfDB is cofinancing the ESAL in the amount
of 120 million units of account ($160 million) in three tranches, under a
loan agreement signed on July 14, 1988. The European Investment Bank (EIB)
is willing to cofinance an amount of 25 million ECU ($30 million) to
support specifically the adjustment program of EECI. EIB would disburse in
two tranches against accomplishment of a program that would take account of
conditions specific to disbursement of the EIB contribution. ThereLore,
the total amount financed by the Bank and the cofinanciers could reach
US$290 million of which US$120 million has already been disbursed by AfDB.
Specific investment and technical assistance requirements are being met
through parallel financing and trust funds.
118.     The amount of the proposed ESAL is considered appropriate in view
of the very significant resource transfers needed by Cote d'Ivoire in the
near future. As mentioned earlier, recent macroeconomic developments,
spurred by the continuous decline in coffee and cocoa revenues in FCFA
terms, have considerably exacerbated Cote d'Ivoire's public finance and



- 45 -
balance of payments situation. In light of these developments, the country
has been actively seeking the assistance of bilateral and multilateral
agencies to meet a projected financing gap for 1989/90 indicated in para.
38. The proposed loan ($100 million) corresponds to about 4-5% of Cote
d'Ivoire's annual financing requirements as defined by its shortfall of
revenue to public expenditure, or 4% of the country's total annual import
bill (GNFS).
119.     The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), has agreed
in principle with the Government to complement ESAL resources by financing:
(i) rehabilitation and maintenance projects of EECI; (ii) techniral
assistance to complete several study components of the National Energy
Plan; and (iii) consultant services to implement specific technical
assistance envisaged in the Government's sector reform program, under ESMAP
management. A listing of the various technical assistance activities
associated with the implementation of the reform program is ,ysven in Annex
VIII. The Government of Japan has allocated 600 million Yen
,US$4.4 million) out of the Japan Grant Facility to Cote d'Ivoire to assist
in the funding of part of this technical assistance program.
120.     As parallel financing to the ESAL, the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) is considering the possibility of an
enterprise rehabilitation loan to EECI. In addition to an investment
component, this loan would comprise a financial restructuring component in
support of the measures to be implemented under the ESAL.
PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
Procurement
121.     Loan proceeds would finance eligible imports of goods by the
private and public sector from Bank member countries, Switzerland and
Taiwan, against a negative list (items such as military and para-military
equipment and luxury goods specifically excluded). Procurement of imports
by the public sector would be made following regular commercial practices
which are acceptable to the Bank, except for contracts costing US$5.0
million or more, in which case international competitive bidding (ICB)
would be required, in accordance with World Bank guidelines. Procurement
of Imports by the private sector would be done by ICB except in the case of
contracts costing less than US$5.0 million, which would be awarded on the
basis of commercial practices of the purchaser, provided however, that to
the extent practicable quotations from eligible suppliers from at least two
countries, eligible under Bank guidelines; will be sought. The Government
would furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission of the related
withdrawal applications, such documentation and information as the Bank may
reasonably request to support the withdrawal of funds from the loan account
in respect of such contracts.



- 46 -
Disbursement
122.     The proposed loan would be made available to the Government of
Cote d'Ivoire. The first tranche would be disbursed upon loan
effectiveness and be followed by the second and third tranches at estimated
six-month intervals. Annex IX contains supplementary loan data including
the special conditions to be met before eLch tranche release. Total
imports of foodstuffs and petroleum products would be subject to a limit of
US$40 million in the aggregate. Prefinancing would be allowed for
expenditures incurred no more than 120 days before loan signature, up to an
aggregate amount of 20% of the loan.
123.     The proposed loan would be disbursed against statements of
expenditure for all eligible contracts. This procedure has been
successfully applied under SA_ III (for which an audit report has been
prepared). Supporting documentation for the statements of expenditure
would be retained by the CAM and made available for review by the Bank
during loan supervision. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account
would be established with CAA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Upon effectiveness of the loan, the Bank would make an initial
deposit of US$ 20.0 million equivalent into this account. The account
would be replenished up to the limit of the successive tranches on the
basis of disbursement applications.
Accounts and Audits
124.     The CAM would be responsible for the coordination/preparation of
disbursement applications and would maintain records of all transactions
under the loan in accordance with sound accounting principles. Not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year of the government, the
Special Account would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. The annual audit of the project accounts would include a separate
opinion on the disbursements made under the statement of expenditure
procedures.
MONITORING AND REPORTING
125.     With few exceptions, the reform program outlined in Part III will
be implemented by the managements of the major sector enterprises (PETROCI,
GESTOCI, SIR and EECI). The Government has ensured supervision by
appointing two Supervisory Boards for the electricity ard hydrocarbon
subsectors, composed of three members representing the supervising
ministries and DCGTx, the latter in its capacity of coordinator of the ESAL
program preparation. The energy enterprises will submit periodic reports
to the Supervisory Board via their technical supervision ministries.   At
the end of the loan period, the Supervisory Boards will prepare completion
reports. Monitoring by the Bank of those aspects of the reform program
whose ixtzlementation will stretch beyond the loan period, i.e. the
implementation of the rehabilitation/restructuring programs of the various
energy parastatals, would take place in the context of future structural



- 47 -
adjustment or project lending, including future power project lending
(para. 135).
BENEFITS, RISKS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
Benefits
126.     The benefits to the Ivorian economy from the proposed loan
will derive from more efficient allocation of resources in the energy
sector, from a greater contribution of private sector finance to the sector
and to the economy at large, and from an enhancement of the competitive
position of the country's productive sectors. A thorough review of Cote
d'Ivoire's energy project portfolio will result in least-cost investments
with returns representing a substantial improvement over past performance.
Increased technical efficiency and better financial management will reduce
recurrent costs of energy supply and increase revenues. The resulting
stronger financial structure of the energy enterprises will reduce their
claims on public rasources, help restore their creditworthiness, and
facilitate their future access to domestic and international capital
markets. Promotion of the private sector will take place through improved
incentives, which should attract private risk capital from abroad to resume
hydrocarbon exploration and, in case of new discoveries, reverse the trend
towards total dependence on petroleum imports. Improvement in Cote
d'Ivoire's industrial competitiveness will be supported by passing on
reductions in cost to the energy users; in a broader sense the actions on
pricing will introduce more flexible mechanisms that will promote future
competition and efficient substitution. Finally, Government's role will
change from emergency Interventions in times of crisis to policy making and
more effective supervision of autonomous energy enterprises.
127.     Although no rate of economic return for the program as a whole can
be computed, it is possible to quantify some important financial and
economic benefits. In the petroleum subsector, direct savings amounting to
over US$10 million per year will be realized by efficiency gains in
refining, curtailment of PETROCI's ancillary activities and leasing of
GESTOCI's idle capacity. In the power sector, direct financial benefits
from cost control measures and loss reduction are estimated also at at
least US$10 million per year. Overall, financial projections for EECI --
as summarized in Annex VII -- show a significant reduction in Government
financial support as a result of the reform process underway. Although
indirect benefits are much harder to quantify, they are expected to exceed
direct benefits by a significant margin. The most important of these are
the economic benefits to the energy sector as well as the economy as a
whole as a result of a more efficient allocation of resources brought about
by the rationalization of energy pricing and better selection of energy
projects.
128.     Since the action program is concentrated on energy needs of the
modern sector, its social effects in terms of direct poverty alleviation
are limited. However, accelerated urban electrification will benefit a
significant segment of low-income city dwellers, initially at least 250,000
people. Furthermore, the establishment of a more rational policy of
electrification will ensure that resources are directed to regions where



- 48 -
the largest benefits are identified, including external socio-economic
benefits for the rural poor. The development of the Foxtrot natural gas
field would free supplies of LPG for the urban household sector and provide
an improvement in living standards. The program is also expected to have a
beneficial effect on the environment, by relieving the pressure on the
supply of wood fuels: first, availability of substitutes (butane in
particular) will be increased; and second, targeted price reductions for
substitutes have been implemented to accelerate the shift of household
consumers from fuelwood to other sources of energy.
Risks
129.     The success of the proposed operation could be jeopardized on the
one hand by unwillingness of energy enterprises to eliminate ambiguities in
their relations with Government and become fully accountable for their
actionp, and on the other hand by the reluctance of Government agencies to
relinquish their control over day-to-day management of energy parastatal
companies, to the detriment of financial and operational autonomy.
However, under pressure of the growing financial plight of both the
entities and the Government, u political will to set matters straight is
emerging. Moreover, two safeguards against weakening of this determination
will be provided: (i) strengthening the effective supervision by
responsible ministries through the introduction of monitorable action plans
and/or performance contracts between the Government and public enterprises;
and (ii) strengthening the effectiveness of Boards of Directors to protect
enterprises from unwarranted Government interference. Another risk,
deriving from the external environment, concerns the level, scope and
timing of private investment in the energy sector. This is particularly
true of risk capital from international petroleum companies for petroleum
exploration and development, because it will depend upon the perception of
the geological attractiveness of Cote d'Ivoire and on the international
climate in t'ie petroleum industry. In view of the fact that the new
incentives have been formulated against the current background of low
petroleum prices which could well increase in the medium-term, this risk is
considered limited.
Environmental Impact
130.     The proposed operation addresses environmental issues through
three specific measures which will be undertaken as part of the sector
reform program. First, in the framework of the National Energy Plan to be
financed in parallel with ESAL (Para. 119), studies are being undertaken to
assess supply and demand of wood, both for direct consumption as fuel, and
wood's derived demand resulting from manufacture of charcoal. On the basis
of the results of these studies a rational fuelwood plan will be drawn up
as part of the National Energy Plan. This will complement extensive
measures being undertaken under the Bank's recently approved Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan, which addresses the deforestation issue through a
National Forestry Plan.
131.     The second measure concerns the effort by the Government of CoAte
d'Ivoire, as part of this operation, to develop the Foxtrot offshore gas
field (para. 59), using foreign private sector venture capital. The



- 49 -
development of Foxtrot would have a positive impact on the environment in
C&te d'Ivoire through, first, the displacement of high sulfur residual fuel
currently used in electricity generation and heavy industry (the refinery,
for example), by clean-burning natural gas. This would reduce
substantially emissions of sulfur and nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, and
partially oxidized hydrocarbons. Second, the use of natural gas in the
refinery will free up butane or liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), to be used
as bottled gas by the urban household sector. As mentioned before, this
would substitute for fuelwood in urban areas and remove some of the
pressures from wood supply, particularly in Abidjan.
132.     A third measure undertaken concerns the environmental impact
associated with an expansion in power generation capacity. Before mid-1990
and prior to any decision on EECI's next major investment in generation
capacity, a 10-year power development program will be drawn up (para. 98),
which will examine, iL particular, the environmental consequences of the
range of choices available, and these findings will have a significant
weight in the final decision. This study will also include recommendations
aimed at minimizing any negative impact of the option retained.
PART V. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COTE D'IVOIRE
133.     Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in Cote d'Ivoire commenced,
lending has expanded rapidly and now includes 61 operations totalling about
US$2,131 million, including US$14.0 million from the Third Window and an
IDA credit of US$7.5 million. Of these, 22 have been for agriculture,
supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber, forestry, oil palm and coconut
development, rural development in the North-East Savannah and Center-West
regions, and one sector adjustment loan. There were six road projects and
two highway sector projects. The remaining loans were for education,
telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system, water supply,
urban development, petroleum exploration and development, power
distribution, tourism development, small and medium-scale enterprises, a
regional cement project, a regional railway project, structural adjustment
and related technical assistance, an industrial finance and development and
a health and demographic project. IFC has supported textile, fertilizers,
flour milling, development banking and agricultural plantation operations.
In general, implementation of Bank projects has been satisfactory. A
statement of Bank Group operations in Cote d'Ivoire is presented in
Annex II.
134.     Until the early 1980s, Bank lending was project-oriented with the
emphasis on agricultural diversification, infrastructural development and
education. The deterioration of the country's economic situation in the
1980's led to a substantial shift in the direction of Bank lending toward
the support of the Government's adjustment program which has been supported
by three Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs) from the Bank and by direct
support to productive sectors (agriculture, industry and energy). Provided
the Government embarks upon and further strengthens the recently initiated



- 50 -
financial and economic adjustment prograwz. the Ba.nk intends to continue to
provide a mix of policy-based and high-prioritv investment lending.
135.           Bank lending in agriculture will continue to give high
priority to subsectors with clear comparative advantage and with export
diversification prospects. In addition, emphasis will be placed on
strengthening agricultural services (research, extension, credit and input
supply) to promote widespread productivity gains. The bank will support
the Government's efforts to halt the rapid degradation of natural forests
and to introduce a more rational and sustainable management of the
country's natural resource base through a Forestry Sector Project, just
negotiated (July 1989). Bank lending will also give high priority to the
improvement of rural living conditions through the financing of programs to
upgrade basic infrastructure (rural roads, water supply) and social
services (health, education) in rural areas. Following satisfactory
completion of the ESAL program, energy lending is expected to continue at
the project level, initially through a further energy investment project,
possibly a contribution to the financing for the development of hydrocarbon
resources, an investment in electricity generating capacity, or both.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
136.     I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the Loan.
Barber Conable
President
Washington, D. C.
December 1, 1989
Attachments



A N N E X E S



ANEX I - Sumry Table of Key Indicators
COTE DIVoIRE
ItEf IROENICICIC DMICAT8S
Actual                                                      Prection
1960    1901    1982    1988    1984    1985    1986    1987   19"8.    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
lP growth rat.                               8.5     0.2    -2.5    -2.0       4.9      3.4    -2.7    -8.7    -0.7    -1.5        1.2     0.5      2.0      3.0     3.5      4.0      0.4
Ot growth rats                               1.9    -0.8    -5.7    -0.4       5.2      S.4    -1.1    -4.8    -1.9    -1.6        1.1      0.2     2.4      8.8     3.9      4.2      4.4
fWcapita growth rate                        -2.1    -2.0    -8.8    -8.6       3.9      1.8    -4.5    -8.0    -5.S    -4.9    -2.8    -3.2    -1.1    -0.2          0.4      0.7      0.8
Conieption /capita growtb rat.              -5.1    -2.7    -4.4    -0. 6      1.5      3.5    -2.5    -7.7    -4.7   -10.0    -2.2    -4.4    -3.1    -1.2    -1.0    -0.5            0.2
Total OPPO (in US Mill)         4329.4  4470.0  5071.0  4915.1  5102.5  5921.1  8777.6  8857.1  761'.7  0800.5  960.1  1o078.4  11453.8  11801.6  12982.8  13 2.6  14341.5  14965.5
DIDX6                             116.9   153.8   178.0   193.9   167.7   187.6   183.4   221.4   253.8   275.8   329.0   845.6   349.2   829.0   331.7   319.7   801.6   282.5
owl                                41.2    82.8    67.0    73.6    77.7    84.8    72.8    80.5    74.5    90.5   102.1   121.5   188.9    15.7   139.6   187.7  U14.4   130.3
Debt Service (in US Mill)         874.4   921.2   968.6   797.0   eJ8O6    691.0    51.7   710.4   684.5  12L1.8  1426.1  1685.9  1670.0  1638.4  1385.7  1746.0  176.8  1875.2
Debt Service/lM                    24.0    31.6    83.9    51.5    21.0    21.8    23.1   1S.6    29.5    38.2    48.7    54.6    50.9    45.6    40.2    40.9    87.6    35.4
Debt Service/00P                    6.8    10.6    12.7    12.0       9.7      9.9      9.2     6.8      8.7    12.5    1S 1    19.2    20.        1.8    16.9    17.6    16.0    16.3
Intersat/05i                        9.7    13.4    16.0    16.8    14.0    16.2    16.3    11.2    18.7    20.6    25.9    25.7    26.1    25.3    24.6    23.5    22.3    20.7
lnterest/CDP                        3.4     4.6      6.2      6.2     6.8      7.4     6.5      4.1      5.5      6.6     6.0      9.1    10.4    10.4    10.8    10.1        9.9      9.6
Cross Iavestsent/P                 26.2    25.9    23.2    20.6    10.9    12.6    11.1    12.2    13.9           6.7     9.7    10.7    11.5    12.5    13.0    13.6    14.0    14.0
Domestic Sa.inga/WP 1/             22.2    18.8    20.3    19.6    22.4    25.6    23.1    16.8         1. 6    17.2    21.7    28.4    24.5    25.6    26.8    27.0    27.7    27.9
National Savinge/lP 1/             10.7      7.0     6.4      5.1     9.6    18.7    18.6       7.4      6.4      6.4    11.5    12.8    18.8    15.5    16.5    17.7    16.8    19.5
marginal national savings rat.               1.0    -0.9      0.6     1.4      7.0      0.0     0.6      0.5      0.7    -0.9    -2.3      5.8      0.9      0.4     0.5      0.5      0.4
Public Investaent/CDP 2j           18.1    14.9    15.2    11.8       7.6      7.2      6.8     3.9 *   4.7       2.S     3.4      4.4     5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0
Public Sa inge*/GP 2/               5.9      3.0    -0.9    -0.4      5.9      9.2      3.9    -0.7    -6.7    -0.2    -1.6    -2.5    -3.4    -3.3    -2.9    -2.3    -1.S    -0.4
Private Inv-stent/01P              10.1    11.0      8.0      9.2     3.3      5.4      4.7     8.3      9.2      4.4     6.3      6.8     6.6      7.5      6.0     8.5      9.0      9.0
Private Savings/COP                 4.0      4.0     9.3      5.5     8.6      4.5      9.8     3.1    13.1    14.6    13.1    15.4    17.2    16.9    19.4    20.0    20.2    19.9
I=m                                        11.5    21.5   -80.4    -7.2        2.6     5.2    -4.4    -5.2   -19.2    -4.6   -19.8    21.6          5.7     4.1      3.7      3.4      8.5
Covernmant Revenwee/COP 2/         28.5    27.8    2.7    29.2    84.0    38.6    31.7    20.7    27.3    25.2    27.7    2B.1    28.5    26.8    29.2    29.5    29.9    80.6
Government Iaspnditure/COP 2/      40.7    89.7    43.6    40.9    85.7    54.6    34.0    31.8    88.7    36.9    35.2    33.5    88.8    88.9    88.6    83.6    38.6    33.5
Deficit or Surplu-/CDP 2/         -12.2   -12.0   -16.1   -11.7    -1.7        2.0    -2.4    -4.6   -11.8   -10.6    -5.5    -5.4    -5.5    -5.1    -4.6    -4.2    -3.7    -8.0
E.ports growth rats 3/                      18.1     1.4    -8.0    10.3    -0.9        4.7    -9.5   -16.9    20.5    -4.7        0.7     1.6      2.1      2.6     3.2      3.8      4.0
Eporto/001P                        34.0    85.2    86.4    ss.5    45.8    45.1    89.0 o       6.0    29.0    82.4    29.9    29.7    30.0    31.1    31.0    82.7    84.0    85.5
lmports growth rat 9/                     -1.0   -11.0    -9.3    -9.8    -7.1    -5.1    -2.0   -14.4    -4.8   -11.4             1.6     2.6      8.2     4.5      3.4      4.0     4.2
imporu/c                           40.1    42.8    39.8   38.2    34.3    33.8    25.8    31.9    29.4    29.2    27.1    27.0    27.3    28.4    29.3    29.9    30.4    30.9
Currant Account In  O 1Mill     -1883.9 -1482.5  -1028.1  -1062.5   -88.8   -15.4    10.6  -499.2  -1121.7    05.0  -094.7  -922.   -967.2  -1000.0  -1042.1  -1020.5  -923.9  -7s6.6
C..rrat Arcount/0DP               -17.4   -17.0   -18.5   -15.7    -1.8    -0.2        0.1    -4.8   -11.0    -6.3    -9.2    -9.1         9.1    -8.9    -8.8       S.0    -6.8    -5.4
Tor_ of Trade Ine                 128.0    89.3    87.2    66.6      101.5   114.5   116.0   100.0    89.6    77.1    72.2    72.S    73.0    73.5    74.2    74.0    77.0    79.2             W
lb
-- - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - -  -   -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - --- -   -----   -------------- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - -
I/W;tbut Terms of Trade Adjutm.tmn.
2/From Coneol idated Public Sector Account.. 
3/Owod and Mln Factor Servic.s.
a/estimated
November 17. 1989
AfI



COTE D'IVOIRE - NATIONAL ACCoU4TS
1986 Por Capita CNP in USS: 720.0                        ------------------------------------
MFd-1986 Population (Mill): 10.4
A. National Accounts Indicators as Shares of CDP/CDY(5):
--------------------------------------------------------                                                                Projected (shares of CDY
Niatorical (ahares of CDP in Current Prices)                                   in Constant 1987 Prices)
1965     1973     1Q8      1984     1985     1986     1987      1988     1989     1990     1991     1992     1993     1994     1995      1996     1997
Cross Domstic Product s.p.       100.0   100.0   100.0         100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0   1 1032    108.1    110.5   110.2   110.5    110.5   110.4    110.3   109.5   108.7
Not tndirect Tax"a               n/,      n/a      6.0       4.9      5.8      6.4      6.4      7.4      8.3      8.6      8.6       8.6      8.6      8.6      8.5      8.5      8.4
Agricultue                      39.6     31.0    24.4       27.6     26.5    27.2    31.1       35.0    38.7    40.2    40.4         41.0     41.4    41.7      41.9     41.6    41.3
Industry                        15.9     17.7    21.7      18.2    19.7    20.0    20.2    19.6          19.7     19.8    19.7    19.4    19.2    19.0    18.9    18.8    18.6
(of which Manufacturing)         9.1     10.2    10.1       9.8      10.0      9.5      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Services                        44.5    51.2    47.9        49.2    48.0    46.4    42.2    41.2         41.4    42.0    41.9    41.6         41.4     41.1     41.0    40.7    40.4
Resource Balance                   6.7       2.5     -1.7     Il.S   -13.2   -16.8    -4.1    -2.8   -11.3   -13.3   -14.0   -14.4   -14.7   -14.7   -14.9   -15.1   -15.2
Exports of aNFS                 36.8    35.8    36.5        45.8    45.1      47.1    36.0    32.0    40.7    40.2    41.3    41.9    39.8    42.2    42.4    42.1    41.8
lmport. of NFS                  30.1     33.2    38.2    34.3        33.3     31.5    31.9    29.2       29.4    27.0    27.3    27.5         42.2    27.5    27.4    27.0    26.6
Total Expendituree                93.3    97.5    109.3    100.8    86.8    90 6         95.9   100.4    96.8    97.3    96.5    96.1    95.9    95.7    95.4              94.5    93.6
Total Conaumption               71.4    74.3    81.1    77.6    74.2    79.2    83.7    86.0    89.5    86.5    84.7    83.4    82.1    81.4                    80.6     79.1    78.4
Private Consumption           60.6    58.5    64.2    62.3    60.3    63.6    68.1    66.6             70.1     70.5    68.8    67.8    67.2    66.7    66.1           65.1    64.6
Ceneral Covernment            10.8     15.8      16.8     15.3     13.9    15.6    15.6       19.5     19.5      16.1    15.9    15.6    14.8    14.6    14.4    14.1    13.7
Croas Domestic Investment       21.9    23.2    28.2    23.2         12.6     11.4    12.2    14.3        7.2      10.7     11.8    12.7    13.8    14.4    14.9    15.3    15.2
Fixed Investment              21.3    21.8    26.2    21.7         11.5    12.3    11.2       11.0      8.0     11.3    12.4    13.0    13.8    14.4    14.9    15.3    15.2
Changes in Stocks              0.6      1.4      2.0       I.S      1.1    -0.9       1.0      3.4     -0.8    -0.5    -0.5    -0.4          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Capacity to Import                                    ---      ---                       36.0    28.8      32.6     29.7    30.7       31.4     31.7     31.8     32.1     32.5     33.1
Terms of Trade Adjustment          ---      ---       ---      ---      ---      ---      0.0     -0.8     -8.1    -10.5    -10.5   -10.5    -10.5    -10.4    -10.3       -9.5     -8.7
Cross koeatic Income               ---       ---      ---      ---      ---      ---    100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Cross National Income              ---      ---       ---      ---      ---      ---     95.0    93.8    92.2        91.8     91.6     91.3    91.6      91.9    92.3    92.6       93.0
Croo National Product                                                                    95.0    96 e    100.3   102.4   102.1   101.8   102.2   102.3   102.6   102.1   101.7
Cross Domestic Saving             28.6    25.7       22.2    20.3      19.6    22.4    16.3    14.0         10.S    13.5    15.3    16.6    17.9    18.6    19.5    20.9    21.6
Net. Factor Incoer              -6.1    -8.9    -4.8        -7.1   -10.2    -8.6       -5.0    -6.2      -7.8    -8.2       -8.4    -8.7      -8.4     -8.1     -7.7     -7.4     -7.0
NM;. Current Transfers             ..      ..    -6.7       -4.8     -4.3     -4.0    -3.9    -4.3       -3.9     -3.4       3.3    -3.1      -3.0     -2.8    -2.6      -2.4     -2.2
Cross National Saving                ..      ..      10.7      8.4      5.1      9.8      7.4      3.4    -1.2        1.9      3.6      4.8      6.6      7.8      9.2     11.0     12.4
S. National Accounts Crowth Rates (U) at Constant Prices:
Actual                                        Prel is.                               Projoetions
1968-73  1973-80    1980     1982     1983     1984     1985      1984     1987                       1988     1989   1987-92  1992-97
Cross Domestic Product m.p.        8.5      7.0      11.5      0.2    -2.5    -2.0        4.9      3.4    -2.7                         -3.7    -0.7    -1.1        3.4
Net Indirect Taxes                 ..      ..       ..        ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..                         ..
Agriculture                      4.9      3.3      12.9    -4.1   -10.7       12.8    O07        6.0    -4.1                         5.2       4.7      2.1      3.9
Industry                        12.5     11.7      8.8    -9.9    -2.9   -16.1         13.3      4.6      0.0                       --0.2    -4.8    -3.6        2.9
(of which Manufacturing)        10.9      8.3     25.8   -12.9    -7.4    -2.9          6.5    -1.4      -0.5                       -1.4
Sarvices                        11.2      6.5      24.7      4.5    -1.5       0.3      4.1      1.7    -1.7                         -9.2    -4.8    -3.2        3.1
Exports of O4FS                  7.9      3.3      12.2      1.4    -8.0      10.3    -0.9       4.7    -9.5                        -16.9     20.5      1.1      3.6
Imports of GNFS                  8.0     11.7      5.6   -11.0    -9.3    -9.8    -7.1    -5.1    -2.0                              -14.4    -4.8    -6.0        3.0
Total Expenditures                 8.6      10.1      8.8    -5.2    -2.9   -10.2         3.6      4.8    -0.6                         -2.2    -8.7    -3.4        3.2
Total Consumption                8.9      8.7       9.7    -2.8    -2.1    -1.3    -3.6          7.2    -0.7                        -4.5    -1.4    -3.S         2.4
Private Consumption            7.8      7.9      11.9    -2.2    -1.7        2.9      0.8      4.8    -0.9                         -9.3    -0.3    -3.0        2.6
Ceneral Covernment            14.6     11.5      2.6    -4.6    -3.4   -15.4   -21.6          12.5      0.9                        16.7    -S.3    -5.4        1.4
Cross Dometic Investment         7.8      14.4      6.4   -13.7    -8.9   -52.1        47.7      7.3    -0.4                         14.1   -52.2    -2.6        7.5
Fixed Investment             -13.9    20.4       2.3   -13.6   -18.2   -33.7    -2.2           7.3    -0.4                         -4.4   -30.9       1.5      7.1
Changes in Stocks               ..       ..       ..        ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..                         ..
0



COTE D'lv- NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (contin.ed)
C. Price Indices (1980=100):                       Actual                              Prelim.                      Cro.Uh Rates (t P a)
1980     1982     1q83    1984     1985     1986     1987                     1965-73  1973-80  1980-86    1987
Consumer Prices (IFS 64)         100.0   116.8   123.7   129.0   131.4   132.8   134.7                              4.2    16.2       4.8      1.4
wholesale Prices (IFS 63)
Implicit M0P Deflator            100.0   108.0   115.0   130.4   135.9   135.9   131.0                             3.0    14.6       5.2    -3.6
Implicit Eapnd. Deflator         100.0   129.4   137.4   150.4   157.8   159.2   163.3                             3.7    12.8       8.0       2.6
Deflators for Sector VA:
Agricultural Sector
Industrial Sector
Service. Sector
D. Other Indicators:            1965-73  1973-80  1980-86  1987-97                               1965     1973    1983      1987     1992
Croeth Rates (11 p4a.)
Population                       4.6      4.8      3.8      3.5         Share of Total
Labor Force                      4 2      4 1                           Labor Force in:
Cros Nat'l Incoe p.c.            2.9      3.1    -0.4    -3.0             Agricultu.e
Private Consumption p.C.         3.1      3.0    -0.2    -3.5             Industry
Services
Import Elasticit:                                                           Total
Import. (C   5)/0P( p)          0.9       1.7    -7.1      0.8
Narginal Savings Rates:
Cros National Savings                              0.4      0.6
Cross Dometic Savings           22.4    18.7       0.5      0.6
ICOR (period averages)            2.6       4.2    16.6    10.6
E. National Accounts (millions of LCUa at 1987 Prices):
_____________________________________________--_______
Actual                             Projections
1987     1988    199      1990    1991      1992     1993    1994      1995     1996     1997
Cross Domestic Product Mp.                          3118    3004    2902    2939       2924     2938    2997   s308        3196     3324     3457
Net Indirect Taxes                                 199      214      230     228      227      228      232      239      248      258       268                                         Li,
Agriculture                                        969     1020    1068    1068       1068    1069      1122    1167    1213       1262     1312                                          W
Industry                                           628     570      543      527      S22      518      521      532      548      570      593
(of*hich Ibnufscturing)                             a        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0                                           I
rvices                                         1321      1200     1142    1116     1106     1105     1122    I1SO      1187     1235     1284
Resource Balance                                   -129      -81      -313     -353     -370     -384     -398    -411    -433    -457        -482
Exports of NFS                                    1122      932     1123     1070     1092    1115      1144    1181     1227     1277    1329
Imports of INFS                                   993      851      BID      717      722      731      747      770      794      820      847
Total Expenditures                                  2989    2923    2669    2586    2553    2554    26C0          2677    2763    2867    2975
Total Consumption                                 2623    2505    2470    2301    2241        2218    2225    227S    2332        2402    2491
Private Consumption                             2137     1938     1933    1873    1821       1804    1823    1866      1914     1975    2054
Ceneral Government                               486      667      537     428      420      414      402      409      417      427      437
Cross Domestic Investent                           366      417      200     285      313      337      37S      401      431      465      484
Fixed Investmnt                                  334      320      221     299      327      347      375      401      431      465      484
Chanes in Stocks                                  32       98     -21      -14      -14       -10       0        0        0        0        0
Capacity to Import                                  1122      840      899      790      813     836      859      890      929      988      1051
Term  of Trade Adjustment                              0      -92    -224    -280    -279    -279    -286    -291    -299    -289    -278
Cross _Oetic Income                                 3116    2912    2759       2658    2645    2659    2712    2797    2897         3034    3179
Cross National Income                               2961    2728    2542    2442    2423    2428    2485    2571           2673     2809     2956
Cross National Product                              2961     2820    27t6      2722    2701     2707     2771    2861      2972     3098    3234
Cross Domestic Saving                                495      407      289      386     404      442      487      S21      866      6S3       688
Net Factor Incme                                  -IS7     -184    -216    -217       -222    -231    -226    -226       -224    -226    -223
Het Current Transfers                             -122    -125    -106       -809     -86      -8S       -80     -78       -75      -73      -70
aroe National Saving                                 216       98     -34       82       96       128     180      218      267      335      395
mb1
0
NIh



COTE D IVOIRE    - EXTERNAL TRADE
A. Volume. Value and Prices                            Actubl               Prel.a                                     Projections
-----------------------          ---------------------------------------------Vo"    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------_____________
ottchand;s*  mparts           1980     1  3     1984    19'8     1986    1987 .0    98      1989    1990 1399    1992    1993    1994    1995             19       1997
-olume tl1Inde. 10710.6
Cocoa beenl                    60.4    60.9    94                 10.3   100.0    68.5   117.5   104.2   105.3   106.3   107.9   110.1   113.4   118    120.3
Coffee ban                    124.9   134.8   113i.    1845.6   138.0   100.0    97.9    95.1   102.3   103.9   105.4   107.5   110.2   113.5   116.9   120.5
Timber                        301.7   237.1   232.9   167.8   125.3   100.0    69.6    62.6    60.0    60.0    60.0    60.4    60.7    61.1    61.5    61.8
CrtiCO                         49.6    62.9    57.5    79.2   101.3   100.0    99.9   100.2   112.5   120.4   128.8   137.8   147.5   217.8   168.9   180.7
Petroleus products            100.1   15.2   196.9   157.2   113.1   100.0   101.3    48.7    46.7    47.6    48.4    49.6    50.5    51.6    52.6    53.6
Other E61art.                    .         7 s.             .4       .        9 100.0    96.0   131.8   138.5   142.6   149.0   155.8   163.5   173.4   183.8   194.8
Total Iarch. Exports F8        83.5    91.3   105.2   102.1   110.6   100.0    82.4   102.3    99.1   101.5   103.9   106.8   110.2   114.7   119.3   124.1
Merchandise Exporte
-------------------              ------------------------------------Value-Current Prices (million  )--
Co"oa beano                   793.2   426.9   907.0   88.8  1103.1  1041.3   620.3   812.8   65.7 63 33          9 9  718.8    780 89063S.3   89.7   1000.6   1 16
Coffee bean.,                 64i.1   418.5   419.6   618.1   683.0   393.1   313.7   268.0   220.7   238.3   257.4   279.3   304.7   333.9   366.3   401.8
Timber                        585.4   292.1   278.3   235.3   228.8   277.8   192.8   168.9   162.9   166.8   172.3   187.4   199.4   212.3   224.3   236.7
COIAMn                         69.1    83.7    77.8   106.4    78.9   141.9    163.4   205.0   203.1   232.0   264.9   302.5   345.4   394.4   441.4   494.1
Petroleum product.            211.9   239.6   311.7   263.1   184.2   337.1   297.0   130.4   184.4   145.9   158.3   171.9   186.6   202.5   225.1   250.3
Other Elportd                 700.6   605.3   630.1   625.7   938.1   100.0   772.0   96S.3   931.5   986.9  1088.6  1177.4   123.1  1435.3  1595.6  17730
Total Nerch. Esporta F8O    3012.3  20.1  2624.5  2735.4  3176.0  3095.0  2359.2  2546.4  2305.3  2454.8  2628.3  2876.5  3132.4  3438.1  3853.3  4320.4
lMrchandi *e ImPOrt.
Food                          116.1   107.3    95.8    87.6   106.3   100.0    66.6    63.3    63.3    6i.S    60.9    61.5    63.0    64.6    68.6    89.3
Petroleum and products        236.5   160.2   142.7   185.2   113.9   100.0   103.2    99.6    96.3    9S.9    98.3    97.9   100.2   103.0   100.3   109.7
Othor Imports:                   .9   1 .        2.         .9       .    100.0    94.8    85.2    80.3    82.7    85.2    88.3    92.5    96.6   100.4   104.5
Other Coneu_r Coods         116E.     68.0    838.8    90.1   1064.    100.0   126.5   120.2    73.0    71.0    70.2    70.8    72.5    74.3    75.7    79.8
Intermediate Coods          160.9   107.4    97.3   101.3   100.6   100.0    45.7    44.1    71.2    70.5    69.8    70.3    71.6    73.2    75.5    77.9
Capital Coods             * 200.9   131.1   117.1   109.4   114.0   100.0   106.0    86.0    92.2   100.6   107.9   114.9   123.1   130.5   138.6   142.1
Total Narch.Importe(P08.OOP)  154.6   107.3   102.8   107.9   109.3   100.0    89.5    82.4    78.9    79.9    81.4    83.7    87.0    90.3    93.6    97.2
Nachato nd i meC-4r
morchattiso Imprts  -----------------      ------rc --i- I8 O-------VleCretPie  mlint)----------------------------------------------------------------------I
Food-ndi- E Pof             6380.0   314.6   29.5   240.6   306.9   417.1   364.6   356.5   314.5   822.5   338.3   358.4   387.0   418.7   453.3   494.8
Petroleum and product.        486.5   303.8   263.0   333.4   215.7   272.6   237.3   244.9   249.1   263.5   282.1   385.0   332.4   383.7   409.1   460.2
Other Imports                1748.9  1017.1   925.1   940.9   19.1  1132.7   910.0   835.0   92.9   980.2  1037.9  1141.8  1249.8  1384.9  1478.6  1598.5
Other Consuaer Coods        560.    362.8   338.8   359.9   447.1   423.6   382.3   373.8   320.3   322.0   829.2   343.2   383.4   385.4   411.5   443.0
Intermediate Coods          497.4   280.0   249.4   262.2   295.6   358.4   153.1   182.0   193.2   194.0   197.2   213.6   228.0   245.6   264.8   284.9
Capital Coed.               699.0   384.3   338.9   318.7   349.4   350.7   374.6   309.2   419.3   464.2   511.5   585.0   658.4   734.0   802.5   870.6
Total Merch.Imports(FO8.80P)  2813.4  1638.5  1487.6  1514.9  1614.6  1822.4  1512.0  1436.4  1498.5  1588.4  1658.3  1805.2  1969.2  2147.3  2340.9  2533.5
Country Indices
Merchandise. Exports          60.5    68.       86.6    95.5   102.5   100.0    93.7    86.9    78.1    81.2    84.9    90.4    95.4   100.7   100.5   116.9
Ilerchandis. Import.          42.8    67.4    74.6    83.6    87.9   100.0    92.7    95.6   100.2   111.8   116.1   123.0   129.1   135.8   142.6   149.8
Merch. Term, of Trade        141.3   10.S   116.0   114.3   116.6   100.0   101.1    90.8    72.2    72.7    73.1    73.5    73.9    74.2    76.1    78.0
8. Share of Total X or M (t) at current prices             C. Growth Rates (X) at constant prices
1955    1973    1983    1907        9       1997           196S-73  1973-80  1980-85  1987-92  1992-97
Nerchandisn Exports
___________________
Cocoa beans                    12.1    15.4    20.7    33.6    27.3    27.0                                    8.0      4.3      2.6
Coffee bean.                   32.2    25.0    20.3    12.7        9.8      9.3                                3.1    IS        2.7
Timbor                           ..       ..    14.1       9.0      6.6     5.5                              -11.1    -8.3       0.6
Cotton                           ..       ..      4.1      4.6    10.1    11.4                                 7.8      5.5      7.0
Other Esport.                    ..       ..    40.9    40.1    46.2    46.8                                   19.5      9.6     5.6
Total Merch. Exports F08      100.0         100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  10                                  6.7      2.3      3.7
Merchandime Import.
Food                              .       ..    14.S    22.7    20.3    19.4                                  -3.7    -7.7       2.6
Petroleum and product            ..       ..    18.6    15.0    17.0    18.0                                  -4.8    -1.3       2.7
Other Import.                    ..       ..    68.8    62.4    62.7    62.6                                     .     -2.2      4.2
other Coneu_r Cood             ..       ..    21.1    24.4    19.9    17.3                                   3.2    -S.8       2.6
Intermediate Goode             ..       ..    19.0    13.0    11.9    11.2                                 -11.2    -5.6       2.3
Capital Goods                  ..       ..    26.7    24.9    30.9    34.1                                 -13.8      2.3      5.7
Total Nerch.Amporte(F08,10P)     .-       ..   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                                  -6.9    -3.1       3.7
0



COTE DOIVOIRE    - BALANCE OF PAiMEl7S
(US$ millions at Current Prices)
Actual               Prelim.                         Projections
S980    1983    1984    19"8      1986    1987    1988    1989    1998    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
A.  Exports of Coods A NfS    3576.3  2491.4  2995.0  3160.4  3637.5  3751.2  2964.7  3160.5  2896.9  3054.8  3244.4  3551.8  3863.2  4233.7  4717.3  5257.7
1. Merchandise (FOS)        3012.7  2066.1  2624.5  2761.4  3162.0  3095.0  2359.2  2546.4  2305.3  2454.8  2628.3  2876.5  3132.4  3438.1  3853.3  4320.4
2. Non-Factor Services       564.2   425.1   370.3   398.9   475.5   656.2   605.5   614.1   SI.6   600.0   616.1   675.3   730.8   795.6   883.9   937.3
0.  Ieports of Coods A NFS    4134.8  2618.4  2311.2  2173.3  2734.1  2974.5  3003.3  2846.6  2631.2  2711.5  2836.8  3089.0  3342.2  3621.8  3917.4  4237.5
1. Merchandise (FOB)        2613.3  1635.3  1487.2  1410.1  1620.8  1822.4  1542.0  1514.8  1496.S  156.4  1656.3  1805.2  1969.2  2147.3  2340.9  2553.5
2. Won-Fac or Services      1521.2   983.3   823.9   763.2  1113.3  1152.1  1461.2  1331.8  1134.7  1145.2  1180.5  1283.7  1372.9  1474.5  1576.5  1684.0
C.  Resource Balance          -55.0  -127.0   683.8   987.1   903.4   776.7   -38.6   313.9   265.7   343.3   407.6   462.9   521.1   611.9   799.9  1020.2
0.  Net Factor Income         -562.8  -508.6  -474.9  -66.3  -679.9  -869.4  -667.0  -770.7  -859.8  -894.4  -9S5.3  -1005.S -1055.5  -1098.5  -1155.9  -1192.6
1. Factor Receipts            31.2    16.3    12.6    15.6    20.1    23.3    37.3    35.9    35.9    35.4    35.2    35.4    36.1    37.2    38.5    40.0
2. Factor Paymnts            594.0   524.9   487.5   681.9   700.0   892.7   704.3   806.6   895.7   929.8   990.5  1040.9  1091.6  1135.7  1194.4  1232.6
(interest payments)       354.0   412.8   444.4   471.9   531.9   421.9   360.0   659.6   741.9   776.4   829.7   879.6   927.6   966.6  1018.1  1045.2
E.  Net Current Transfers     -715.6  -319.6  -291.1  -278.9  -426.2  -406.4  -423.6  -347.8  -287.5  -258.8  -232.9  -232.9  -232.9  -232.9  -232.9  -232.9
1. Current Receipts o                                                     00               0.0      0.0     o.0      0.      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
2. Current Payments          715.6   319.6   291.i   278.0   426.i   406.4   423.6   347.8   287.5   258.8   232.9   232.9   232.9   232.9   232.0   232.9
F.  Current Account Salance  -1836.4  -955.2   -82.2    41.9  -202.7  -499.1  -1129.2  -804.6  -881.6  -809.9  -780.S  -775.5  -767.3  -719.5  -S88.9  -405.3
G.  Long-Term Capital Inflow  .080.s   560.0   306.0   222.4   333.2  -216.4   201.6  1489.8   893.9  1028.2   775.3   747.7   731.2   720.1   688.8   625.0
1. Direct Inve-tment          94.7    87.5      3.0    29.2   107.4       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
2. Official Capital Grant*     9.9    26.5    28.1    26.0    68.0        0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
3. Het LT Loans (GR5 date)   1132.6   510.9   970.5   712.6   473.8   313.6    38.7   921.0   88.4   897.3   766.1   693.0   629.6   576.0   465.3   310.7
a. Disbursements         1691.0  1127.3  1435.0  1282.2  1247.3   602.1   363.1  1481.2  1550.0  1769.5  1579.7  1422.7  1237.9  1320.5  1193.7  1087.4
b. Repaments              s58.4   616.4   464.5   869.6   773.5   268.5   324.5   560.2   667.5   890.3   813.6   729.7   608.3   744.4   728.3   776.7
4. Other LT Inflo-s (net)    -1S6.7   -14.9  -695.6  -645.4  -316.0  -5S30.0   163.2   195.8       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
H.  Total Other Ites  (not)    644.9   275.2  -209.5  -297.1  -119.2  SS.3   529.3  -916.7          0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
1. Met Short Term  apital H.   722.5 1243.6   -79.4  -418.4   345.7    S9.3   S29. 3  -916.7       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
2. Capital Floes N.E.I.        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
3. Errors and Omisirons      -77.6    31.6  -130.1   121.3  -464.9        0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0               I
I.  Change in Het Reserves    111.0   120.0   -14.3    32.8   -11.3   101.9   398.2   231.5   -12.3  -218.3           5.2    27.9    36.2    -0.6   -99.9  -219.7
1. Hat Credit from IW          0.0   166.2    14.0   -37.8   -65.9  -132.9   -56.9   -95.6   -13.1   -74.2          0.0   -75.8       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0              Ln'
2. Other Resrve changpe      111.0   -46.2   -28.3    70.6    64.6   234.8   455.1   327.1         0.8  -218.3       5.2    27.9    36.2    -0.6   -99.9  -219.7
(- indicate increase)
Shares of CDP (Current US$):
1. Reource Balance              -5.9    -1.7    10.7    10.7    ;2.1        7.5    -0.4      3.2     2.8      3.9     4.9      5.3     5.6      6.2      7.5     8.9
2. Interest Payments PPC         3.4      6.2     7.9      7.8     7.6      4.1     5.5      6.8     7.8      8.8    10.1    10.1    10.0       9.7      9.5     9.1
3. Current Account Balance     -17.4   -17.4   -16.2    -2.0    -4.8   -10.6    -8.3    -9.3    -9.2    -9.5    -8.9    -8.3    -7.3    -5.5    -3.5             0.0
e/lncludes arrears ( 1987.1988 ).
Memorandum Item.
CDP (million of Current US$)  10514.0  6774.9  6565.9  6984.4  9368.5  10885.7  10221.2  9506.2  9586.0  9974.1  6094.0  7538.0  0975.7  10682.9  11605.4  12608.4
Foreign Exchange Reeerves:
1. Intl. Reerves (IFS lid)
2. Cold (end yr London price)
3. Gross Reerves incl. Cold
4. Gross R-s. in Months Imports
Eachane Rates (LCU/US8):
1. Mo. Off. XRts (IFS rh)__                                                                          __       __      __       __
2. Rel Eff. X-fats (1980.100)
3. XRate for OI  Conversion                                                                  ---      ---     ---      ---     --
olb
0
-J



COTE O'IVOIRE -  EXTERNAL CAPIT^L ANO DEBT
(US million; at Current Prices)
Actual                                                  Projectiona
A. Oiaburaent                     19B0     1983     1984     1985     1988     1987     1988     1989     1990    1991      1992     1993     1994     1995    1996       n97
1. Public A Publ icly Ouse. LT    1429      687      640      304      341      602      363     1481    lS6O.   1770       1580     1423     1238    1320      1194     1087
(accluding Cap Financeing)
Official Croditor.            264      385      369      163      220      S77      319      991     1017    1077      1024      935      860     1000      911      828
Multilteral                 175      224      246       82      147      408      171      285      346      455      440      422      412      412      406      382
of chich I811D             88      198      217       70      118      36S      113      189      217      337      333      319      312      311      306      282
of which IDA                0                 0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Bilateral                    89      161      123       81       73      169      148      708      671      622      583      514      448      569      505      443
Private Creditor.            1165      302      171      141      121       25       44      490      533      693      556      487      378      320      282      262
Suppliers                   175       43       28        5        6        2        8        1        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Financial Markets           990      259      143      137      114       23       37      489      533      693     56       487      378      320      282      262
2. DIf Purchaes                      0      166       42       61       59        0      121       o9       99       25        0        0        0        0        0        0
B. Reaymnte
1. Putb iec* Publicly Cur.  LT     520      38l      191      172     260       289     325      580       668      890      814      730      608      744      728      777
(eccluding Cap Financing)
Offic;al Creditora             58       6S       84       73      102      124      204      359      412      440      470      426      S90      562      SOS      492
Multi lat erol              I1        38       53       66       83      109      187      177      181      188      210      203      212      210      222      238
of ahich lBR                7       20       31       44       57       75      133      129      133      140      165      175      182      174      184      195
of which IDA                0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Bilateral                    39       28       10        7       19       IS       17      182      231      254      260      222      178      352     283       255
Private Creditor,             464      319      27        99      157      165      120     201      255       450      344      304      219      183     223       285
Suppliers                   106       67       47       22       39       49       37       42       35       30       13        5        0        0        0        0
Financial Market.           359      252       81       77      119      116       83      159     220       420      330      209      218      183      223      285                 I
2. IW  Rapurchass                    0        0       28       99      126      133      172      156      119       99       85       76       95       45        3        0
C. Intoreat
1. Public & Publicly Ouar. LT      354      413      444     472       V32      422     580      660      742      776      830      880      928      967      1013     1045
(eacluding Cap Financing)
Officeil Creditor.             72       90      107      152      208      183      243     332      393      434      480       521      562      594     624       652
Multilateral                32       Si       77       89      107      136      175      172     180       192      212      229      244      258      273      285
of h;ich IBM              22       40       68       82      100      123      157      152      156      161      173      184      193      202     211       219
of *hich mA                0        0        0        0        0        0       0         1       0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0
Bilateral                    40       39      30       63       101       47       68     180      213      241      268      293      318      336      351      366
Private Creditora             282      323      337     320      324      239      317      328      349      343      350      359      366      373      394      394
Supplier.                    34       24       30      24        21       19       16      13        9        5        2         1       0        0        0         0
Financial Markot.           248      299      307     296      303      219      801      315      340      337      348      357      388      373      394      394
2. IW Srvice Chrare                  0        0        0       0         0        0       0        -4     -11       -12      -18     -25       -31     -39       -42      -42
Meaorandum Item:
Available information on arrears and rescheduling should be reportd as memorandum item.                           (continued on next page)
The Dobt Compi lres Working Group with reproeent t;tvs free the "in agencies concerned.
is no  working on atendara for reporting in these arse..
Io13
-J



COTE D IVOIRE -  EXTERNAL CAPITAL APE DEBT
(US edlion& et Cr;rent Pisces)
Act..al                       Prelim.                 Projection-
0. Extemal Debt (DOD)           1198     1983      9;84    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
1. Public A Publicly Cuar. LT    4328    4915    4969    5921    6778    8450    7618    8428    9266   10145   10911   11205   12234   12810   13275   13588
(exclud;ng Cap Financing)
Official Creditors          1210    1643    1955    2592    3256    4729    4394    5026    5632    6269    6822    7332    7803    8241    8647    8981
MultiI&ator               588A    994    1021    1253    1594    2285    2073    2180    234S    2614    2845    3063    3264    3466    3650    3794
of wbich IERO           306      719     769      965    1253    1879    1702    1761    1845    2042    2210    2354    2484    2621    2743    2830
of whieh IDA              8       8        7        7        7       7        7        7        7       7        7        7       6        6        6        6
Bilateral                  622     648      934    1339    1661    2444    2322    2846    3286    3655    3978    4269    4539    4776    4998    5186
Private Creditors           3119    3273      934    1339    1661    3720    3224    3401    3634    3877    4089    3872    4432    4569    4628    4605
Suppliers                  496     311      304      257      226     174      128       84      49       19        6        1       0        0        0        0
Financial Markets         2623    2962    2710    3072    3296    3547    3096    3318    3586    3858    4063    3872    .431    4569    4628    4605
2. DIF Credit                                                                  0      -57    -138    -153    -228    -312    -388    -483    -528    -531    -531
Percent of Total LT DOD:
1. On Conceaaional Term          10.8     9.8      9.3    11.1    12.4    13.0    14.0    16.7    18.2    18.8    19.0    19.5    18.2    18.9    19.3    19.4
2. With Variable Int. Rat"      37.1    46.8    48.8    47.6    46.8    42.0    40.8    39.4    38.7    38.0    37.4    34.6    36.2    35.7    34.9    33.9
E. Ban and IDA Ratio*
Share of Total ODO (PPC)
1. IORD as 5 of Total            7.1    14.6    15.6    16.3    18.5    22.2    22.3    20.9    19.9    20.1    20.3    21.0    20.3    20.5    20.7    20.8
2. mA e 5 of Total               0.2      0.2      0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.0     0.0
3. 16RO*A aas 9 of Total          7.2    14.8    15.8    16.4    18.6    22.3    22.4    21.0    20.0    20.2    20.3    21.1    20.4    20.5    20.7    20.9
Share of LT Debt Service
1. ZenD as S of Total            3.4      7.5    15.5    19.6    19.8    27.9    32.8    23.0    20.6    18.0    20.6    22.3    24.4    22.0    22.6    22.7
2. DA as 3 of Total              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
3. IR.lDA as * of Total           3.4     7.5    15.6    19.6    19.9    27.9    32.8    23.1    20.5    18.1    20.6    22.3    24.5    22.0    22.7    22.7
F. DOD-to-Eaports Ratio. (a)
1. Total LT PPO Debt/Exports    120.0   196.0   16S.2   186.4   185.3   223.9   253.8   263.7   315.9   328.3   332.7   312.3   313.8   299.9   279.1   256.4
2. IBRD Debt/Exports             8.6    28.7    25.6    30.4    34.3    49.8    56.7    55.1    62.9    66.1    67.4    65.6    63.7    61.4    S7.7    53.4
0. DD-to-QP Ratio                                                                                                                                                                 V1
1. Long-Teo  DebtI/DP           41.2    72.5    75.7    84.8    72.3    81.4    74.6    86.4    98.0   1165S   132.3   128.8   132.1   129.2   124.4   118.3
2. IR D*bt/CDOP                  2.9    10.6    11.7    13.8    13.4    18.1    16.7    18.1    19.5    23.2    26.8    27.1    26.8    26.4    25.7    24.6                        1
H. Debt Service/Export. (a)
___________________________
1. PPC LT Debt Serv. W/O EAPVi   24.2    31.8    21.1    20.3    21.6    18.8    29.5    38.2    48.1    53.9    50.1    44.9    39.4    40.1    36.7    34.4
2. IWO                           0.8      2.4      3.3      4.0     4.3      5.2      9.7     8.8      9.9      9.7    10.3    10.0       9.6      8.8     8.3      7.8
1. Inter-st Burden Ratio.
_________________________
1. Total Intereat PPC/CDP        3.4      6.1      6.8     6.8      5.7      4.1      5.$     6.7      7.7      8.7     9.9    10.0       9.9     9.6      9.4      9.0
2. IER  Interest/CDP             0.2      0.6      1.0      1.2     1.1      1.2      1.S      1.6     1.7      1.8     2.1      2.1      2.1      2.0     2.0      1.9
3. Total Intareat PPC/Export.    9.8    16.5    14.8    14.9    14.6    11.2    18.7    20.3    24.9    24.7    24.9    24.2    23.4    22.3    21.1    19.5
3. IBM Intereat/Eaports (a)      0.6      1.6      2.3      2.6     2.7      3.3      5.2     4.7      5.3      5.2      S.3     5.1      5.0      4.7     4.4      4.1
(a) Ratio to lErportax with latter defined to include merchandise. al1 services and workers remittance.
0
O t1



A NNEX II
-59 -                                            Page 1 of 2
PUN TINE: 11/30/89 AT 16.16.22
Amount in US$ Billion
(lees cancellations)
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                           Undis-  Closing
Credit go.   Year   Borrower                            Purpose                        Dank          IDA     bursed   Date
Credits
1 Credits(s) closed                                                                                 7.50
All closed  for      REPUBLIC OF COTE D IVOIRE
TOTAL number Credits        0
Loans
44 Loans(s) closed                                                                 1,361.08
L20590-IVC  1982    REPUBLIC Of COTE D'IVOIRE           TICHNICAL ASSISTANCE         16.00                       .43  12/31/88(R
2100-IVC  1982    RBPOBLIC Of COTE D'IVOIRE           WATER  SUPPLY II             43.00                     5.75  03/31/90(R
21870-1VC  1982    REPUBLIC Of COTE D'IVOIRE           CENTRI-NEST B.D. 11          13.00                     3.64  12/31/90(R
L23230-IVC  1983    REPOBLIC Of COTE D'IVOIRE           RUBBER IV                    32.20                     4.32  09/30/90(B
L24960-IVC  1985    REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE           fORESTRY II                  31.30                      5.95  06/30/9
L25810-IVC  1985    REPUBLIC Of COTE D IVOIRB           HIGHWAY SECTOR II           102.00                            12/31/59
LB0130-IVC  1986    REPUBLIC Of COTE D'IVOIRE           HIGHWAY SECTOR II             8.00                            12/31/89
L26170-ITC  1986    REPUBLIC Of COTS D'IVOIRE           IND. fIN. AND DEV.           30.00                    14.97  06/30/q2
L26190-IVC  1986    REPUBLIC Of COTI  YIVeOIRE          HBELTH 1                     22.20                     7.34  06/30/92
L26270-IVC  1986    REPUBLIC Of COTE D'IVOIRE           PALd OIL V                   13.40                      2.42  06/30/94
L26960-IVC  1986    BRPUBLIC PF COTE D'IVOIRE           TELECON II                   24.50                     15.24  06/30/91
L27650-IVC  1987    REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIBR           AG.BXITNSION                 34.00                     7.44  06/30/92
L27890-IVC  1987    RIPUBLIC Of COTE D'IVOIRE           THIRD URBOA  PROJECT        126.00                    91.64  12/31/92
L25811-IVC  1988    REPUBLIC Of COTE D'IVOIRE           LIGHWAY SICTOR II            45.50                     4.01  12/31/90(B)
L28740-IVC  1988    RIPUBLIC Of COTE D'IVOIRE           RUBBER v                     11.90                     8.51  12/31/92
L31270-IVC  1990    RIPUBLIC Of COTE D'IVOIRE           AG.SECT.ADJ.                150.00                    99.95  06/30/91
L31280-IVC  1990    REPUBLIC Of COTE D'IVOIBE           NUNICIPAL DEYPT.             66.00                    66.00  12131/94
TOTAL nouber Loans       17                                                            769.00                   337.60
TOTAL***                                                          2,130.08         7.50
of which repaid                                                   429.48          .49
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA                                          1,700.60         7.01
Amount sold                 5.10
of which repaid           5.10
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                            337.60
NOTES:
t   Not yet effective
St  Not ye   igned
US Total Approved, Repa7ments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(B) indicates formally revised Closing Date.
The let Approved and Bank Repayments are historical value, all others are market value.
The Signing, Effective  and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department offical data and are not taken
from the Task Budget file.



-60-                                                  ANNEX  11
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF COrE OtvOtRE
SUMMARY OF rFC INVESThENrS
(As of September 30, 1989)
Orig. Gross Commitme,it        Total
Fiscal                                  Type of         -- US$ Million --             Held
YoAr              ComBanv             Rusiness         Ln    EguitX    mu            by  IFria  [naisbursed
1965/1978    Banoue tvoirienne         Oevelopment       -         0.42      o.42       0.00          -
de Developpement         Finance
Industriel. S.A.
(8 tOt)
1977          Ets. R.                  Textiles &        -         0.88      0.88       0.88          -
Gonfreville S.A.         Fibres
1980          Moulin du                Food & Food       2.90      0.41      3.31       0.00          -
Sud-Ouest                Processing
1979          Societe tvoirienne       Fertilizers       5.12      1.27      6.39       5.11           -
d'Engrais (StVENG)
1986          Ets. R.                  Textiles &        8.78      -         8.78       5.42           2.52
Gonfrevil1e S.A.         Processing
198t          Omnium Chimique          Food & Food       2.13      -         2.13       1.68           -
et Cosmetique            Processing
S.A. (COSMIVOIRE)
1987          Societi des              Food & Food       3.13      0.52      3.65       3.60           0.37
Alimentaires et          Processing
Laitieres (SIALIM)
1988          Industrial               Capital           -         0.83      0.83       0.83           -
Promotion Services       Markets                                           -
(IPS)
TOTAL           2n                             IL-AZ
/a Amounts stated at net of repayments, cancellations, write offs and exchange adjustments.
IFC/AFRICA I
8334F
October 16, 1989



- 61 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 29
REPUBLIC OF COTE DIVOIRE
(Coat of Arms]
MINISTRY OF MINING
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY
MINISTRY OF WATER AND FORESTRY RZSOURCES
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
inmmmummmumminm
ENERGY POLICY STATEMENT
LIST OF MEASURES AND PROVISIONAL TIMETABLE
FOR IMPLEMENTATION
June 1988
DCGTx
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC:
DIRECTION AND SUPERVISION OF MAJOR PROJECTS
I.    INTRODUCTION: MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
Since the early 1980s the Government of COte d'Ivoire has been
engaged in an economic recovery program designed to right the economy and
stabilize the country's debt service, with the emphasis on restructuring
the public and parastatal sectors. Despite the growing success of this
program, the hoped-for resumption of sustained economic growth proved only
temporary (1985 and 1986). The sharp deterioration in the external
environment, notably the collapse in the prices of the country's main
export products, has cast a considerable pall on the prospects for
resumption of growth, for decreased debt and for effective expansion in the
role of the private sector. While the broad lines of the plan for
restructuring the Ivorian economy remain unchanged,. namely:
- divestiture by the State and an increase, in accordance with the
free-market course being pursued by the country, in the role of the
private sector in promoting growth;
- strict supervision of the public finances;
- monitoring of foreign debt,



- 62 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 29
it now appears that the constraints linked to changes in household income
and the deterioration in the external environnent will make it necessary to
carry out this plan in a more measured manner.
The mcre cautious prospects in regard to the impact of structural
adjustment measures and the dynamism of the private sector (where savings
and investment capacity have been curtailed by the crisis) have prompted
the conclusion that public investment should be maintained at no less than
the 1986 level as a means of supporting the national economy through direct
investment as long as the crisis into which COte d'Ivoire is again entering
may last, even at the risk of slowing down the debt reduction process.
The causes of the crisis, which lie outside the country, must needs
find a response not only in continuation of the massive adjustment effort
in which C6te d'Ivoire has for years been engaged but also in a sustained
commitment on the part of the donor community -- not in unending recession
that would wipe out the positive effects of the national effort and assure
permanent alienation of the population.
Given the critical nature of its present situation and the scale of
the capital investments required, the energy sector -- in its role of
supporting the directly productive branches of the economy -- deservas
special attention within the overall adjustment policy that the country
continues to pursue.
Among the general orientations of this policy, as redefined in a
letter of November 1987 to the International Monetary Fund, the following
four major topics of significance to the energy sector merit listing below:
- continued efforts to restore the situation of public enterprises and to
strengthen monitoring efforts;
- reduction in deficit financing by the banking sector so as to permit
proper allocation of resources to the private sector;
- speedier withdrawal of the State from activities of an industrial and
commercial nature;
- improved competitiveness within the Ivorian economy.
II.   GENERAL OBJECTIVES OF ENERGY POLICY
Worldwide, people first became truly aware of energy problems with
the first oil shock in 1973. In C6te dl'voire this led to intensified oil
exploration efforts and the development of two oil fields, and an
accelerated program to develop the country's hydroelectric potential.



- 63 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 29
The decision to double the nation's refining capacity, in response to
the rapid growth in consumption and increasing tensions on the
international oil market, also dates from this period, as does the decision
to establish strategic reserves of oil products.
The second oil shock of 1978 only confirmed the policy course already
taken and heightened concerns for energy independence.
The exceptional drought of 1984 revealed unmistakably the decline in
productior. potential from hydropower dams and the risks attached to this
form of electricity generation. The electricity shortages of 1983/84
alerted the nation, and government authorities in particular, to the
importance of energy security and the need to define and pursue a
comprehensive and consistent energy policy.
Ongoing concerns for increased energy security and the need to avoid
destructive exploitation of the country's timber resources have in recent
years been augmented by new problems relating to declining management
performance and deteriorating financial results in certain State-owned
corporations operating in this sector, together with difficulties in
raising the financing required for the sizable capital investments needed.
As a consequence, the Government must redefine an energy policy
tailored to this new context. The Government's energy policy set forth in
the present Policy Statement is directed toward the following four general
objectives:
- more rational use of energy;
- increased energy independence and energy security for CMte d'Ivoire;
- improved sector performance in terms of costs, more particularly by
improving technical i . financial management and pursuing cost-effective
capital investments;
- reduction in the destructive felling of the country's forest resources.
These objectives, and the general means that will be deployed to
attain them, are discussed in greater detail below. The Policy Statement
then concludes with a listing of the measures that the Government intends
to implement in the short and medium term.
11.1 More rational use of energy
The introduction of new technologies, promotion of energy-saving
methods, encouragement of substitute forms of energy and the introduction
of a pricing system passing the true costs to the community on to consumers
will help restrain demand and encourage more rational use of energy.



- 64 -
ANNEX III
Page 4 of 29
II.2 Increased energy independence and energy security
Although less crucial now than in the years 1973-85 as a result of
the decline in oil product prices and the decreased risk of interruptions
in supply, increased energy independence and energy security remains an
important objective for the nation.
The development of national resources (hydropower, petroleum,
biomass) will allow imports to be cut and reduce Cote d'Ivoire's energy
dependence. Diversification of the types of energy employed and of the
sources of supply, together with optimization of strategic reserves (both
hydroelectric and petroleum) will add to the country's energy security
without placing an excessive financial burden on the community.
1I.3 Improved sector performance in terms of costs
At a time when national income is stagnating or advancing only
slightly, and when most productive sectors are facing ever sharper
international competition, improved sector performance in terms of costs
must be the primary objective.
Overly extensive and poorly supervised intervention by the Central
Government in the energy sector has all too often tended to stifle private
initiative, contrary to the country's political and economic philosophy.
What is needed now is to expand the role of the private sector, more
particularly Ivorian companies, in those activities that private enterprise
can manage without compromising the interests of the community at large,
and to improve the management of the State-owned corporations in the
sector, notably EECI and PETROCI. The Government will also seek to clarify
its relations with the State-owned corporations, more particularly by
formulating performance plans clearly setting out each party's commitments
and reinstituting effective and active supervision (tutelle) procedures.
Public investment policy for the sector, which has hitherto focused
primarily on the rapid provision of energy service coverage for the entire
national territory, will be restricted to programs exhibiting a positive
financial rate of return, i.e. programs designed to bring costs down over
the long run. New, less costly technical solutions will be sought for
gradually meeting demand throughout the country.
11.4  Reduction in the destructive felling of the countrys forest
resources
Given the current situation of CMte dl'voire's forest resources, it
has now become vital to reduce the destructive felling of trees for
fuelwood. The move from extensive to intensive agriculture, which will



- 65 -
ANNEX III
Page 5 of 29
reduce the availability of waste timber from cleared lands, will only make
the problem more acute.
Promotion of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), in particular by reducing
the price paid by consumers, will be one of the priority goals of the
action program described in detail below.
III. ENERGY SAVINGS
Improved demand management will in the first instance require
promotion of energy-saving practices, which will permit a substantial
reduction in the sector's financial needs. In this regard, the authorities
propose to encourage and to expedite awareness among the population in
general and among economic agents by tackling two major obstacles, namely
the lack of information on the advantages of and opportunities for energy
savings, and provision of financing for investments required to effect such
savings.
To this end, the Bureau des Economies d'Energies (Energy Savings
Office), which was set up in 1986, will be strengthened and will work to
develop the following programs:
(1)   Reduction in energy consumption by the public sector:
-   improved maintenance of installed equipment to correct power factors;
-   continuation of the program of energy audits for public buildings and
buildings owned by parastatals;
-   execution of cost-effective investments brought to light by these
audits;
-   introduction of provisions in operating contracts for the sharing of
energy savings;
-   optimization of construction standards for buildings in relation to
energy costs;
-   setting of minimum temperature levels in public buildings.
(2)   Promotion of energy savings in the residential sectoz:
-   continuation of awareness programs and information campaigns,
particularly those designed to encourage the use of improved cooking
stoves and of LPG;
-   standardization of the requirement to post specific consumption
figures for electrical appliances;



- 66 -
ANNEX III
Page 6 of 29
-   regulations governing the specific useful consumption of appliances
irawing large amounts of power, particularly household
air-conditioners.
(3)   Promotion of energy savings in the industrial sector by continuing
awareness programs and information campaigns, essentially through the
publication of technical specifications, training of supervisory and
technical staff, performing energy diagnoses free of charge and
promoting feasibility studies for energy-saving projects.
IV.   ELECTRICITY
IV.1 Present situation
The electricity sector has grown extremely rapidly since COte
d'Ivoire gained its independence. Demand for electricity rose from 190 GWh
in 1965 to 430 GWh in 1970, 790 GWh in 1975 and 1,520 GWh in 1980,
representing a 13 percent yearly growth rate over the period 1970-80.
However, starting in 1980, growth in demand slowed appreciably as a
result of the downturn in economic growth. the stagnation in household
income, and the fact that, by 1980, virtuaily all the major consumption
centers had been covered. In 1987, demand amounted to 1,870 GWh,
representing only a 3 percent growth rate over the period 1980-87. For the
years ahead, a 4 percent growth rate is expected.
To meet this growth in demand, Energie Electrique de la Cote d'Ivoire
(EECI), a mixed-economy company in which the State holds a majority
interest (92.3 percent), has constructed substantial generation,
transmission and distribution facilities.
EECI's generation facilities comprise five hydroelectric dams --
Ayame 1 (which was brought into operation in 1959), Ayam6 2 (1965), Kossou
(1972), Taabo (1979) and Buyo (1980) -- with a total capacity of 620 MW,
plus a thermal power station at Vridi (Abidjan), which was commissioned in
phases between 1968 and 1984, with a total capacity of 290 HW. At 910 MW,
the total capacity available is well above the peak demand (350 MW in
1987). However, the surplus is much smaller when it comes to energy
production capacity. While thermal generation capacity (estimated at 1,800
GWh/year) and multiyear hydropower generition capacity (which has been
recalculated at 1,480 GWh/year on the basis of updated hydrological
assumptions) may seem quite adequate to cover present production needs
(2,240 GWh/year at a normal 87 percent efficiency rating), it is not
possible at present to count fully on hydropower generation capacity in
view of low water levels in the Kossou dam reservoir, which can be used as
a balancing facility only if adequate volumes of water are available. If



- 67 -
ANNEX III
Page 7 of 29
these generation facilities are managed properly, the existing plant should
suffice to meet needs up to 1997, albeit at the cost of a high oil bill.
The transmission and distribution network -- 3,300 km of HT lines,
10,000 km of MT lines and 7,100 km of LT lines -- is almost entirely
interconnected (output from the isolated power stations that will still
exist after 1988 will represent less than 0.2 percent of total power
generation). This network serves 370,000 LT customers and 1,730 MT and HT
customers in approximately 1,000 localities, giving 5.5 million people or
55 percent of the total population access to electricity.
In 1983/84 quality of service suffered under the effects of an
exceptional drought, resulting in extensive load-shedding over a four-month
period. Quality of service has since been restored to a relatively
satisfactory level.
As a result of this period of extremely rapid growth, sector
management slipped somewhat. The uncontrolled growth in EECI's direct
operating expenses and the execution of a vast capital investment program
(often at excessive cost and with numerous instances of limited
cost-effectiveness) brought about a gradual deterioration in the company's
financial situation, accentuated and highlighted by the 1983 drought, which
sizable rate increases in 1983 and 1984 were unable to reverse.
The cost of electricity thus rose to excessively high levels, and it
has come to weigh heavily on household incomes and also on the industrial
sector's competitive position.
The full extent of the current financial crisis, which requires the
injection of CFAF 75 billion in new money, has only underscored the need to
adjust the sector in order to consolidate past gains and allow future
development to proceed on a sound basis.
Adjustment of the electricity sector is based primarily ons
- review of production policy;
- simultaneous introduction of an internal recovery plan and a financial
restructuring plan;
- slowing-down of capital investments and focus on projects that will
produce a satisfactory financial rate of return;
- clarification and formalization of relations between the State and EECI,
together with the restoration of actual and effective supervision
(tutelle).



- 68 -
ANNEX III
Page 8 of 29
IV.2 Productioti policy review
Production policy needs to be reviewed, excluding the effect of
short-term cash-flow problems, in order to minimize long-term production
costs and also reduce the dependence of generating capacity on climatic
variables.
The new production policy will focus on:
- adoption of a system of multiyear management of hydropower dams;
- completing the ongoing rehabilitation of the thermal units;
- optimizing the use of imported electricity.
Hultiyear manaaement of hydropower dams
Overestimation of the volume of water that can be supplied by the
Bandama to the Kossou dam. and the cash-flow problems encountered by EECI
have so far prevented minimum filling of the reservoir behind the dam to
allow multiyear management.
EECI will embark on a program for filling this reservoir, as follows:
- A build-up phase, during which use of the Kossou dam will be reduced to
the strict minimum compatible with ensuring stability of the transmission
system and quality of service, until such time as the total
volume of water in storage is 12 billion m (datum level 193 m), provided
it is possible to meet demand by using the totality of other sources
available (both hydropower and thermal) or by importing electricity from
Ghana. Given the multiyear average net flow from the Bandama (2.5
billion m ) now being used as a basis, this phase will probably take
approximately four years.
- A regular phase, once the critical volume of 12 billion m3 has been
reached, when use of the hydropower dams will enable EECI to achieve a
multiyear production target set independently of the actual volume of
water supplied during the year in question (1,480 GWh/year under present
conditions). This phase of control of hydroelectric generation will be
reflected in controlled consumption of fuel oil in the thermal stations
and, by extension, in *controlled' EECI operating expenses. Yearly
production from hydropower facilities may exceed this target only if
adherence to this program would require the discharge of water through
the spillway.  The addition to present output from the Ayame, Taabo (from
the Harahoue) and Buyo dams will come from output from Kossou and Taabo
(from the Bandama). Regular operation will be terminated 3when the total
volume of water in the reservoir falls below 10 billion m . When this
happens, use of the Kossou dam will be cut back as indicated above for
the build-up phase.



- 69 -
ANNEX 'II
Page 9 of 29
Critical threshold values and production targets for hydroelectric
facilities will be reviewed periodically to take account of changes in
hydrological data. Except in the event of a prolonged return to a
situation similar to that which prevailed prior to 1970 in regard to
restoration of watersheds, such reviews will be based on the period running
from 1971 to the year in which the review is being carried out.
During the last quarter of each year, EECI will submit its production
plan for the next year to the authorities. Quarterly production plan
reviews, which fall within EECI's competence, will also be reported.
The effect of this program for filling the Kossou reservoir is taken
into account in the formulation of the OEECI Financial Restructuring Plan."
Rehabilitation of Vridi power station
The need to meet demand up until the time the next production unit
comes on line will obviously require full availability of the existing
thermal units at their rated efficiency factors.
Completion of the rehabilitation of generator units 3 and 4 in the
Vridi power station will be initiated shortly, following redefinition of
the program and detailed engineering currently under way.
Electricity imports
The interconnection that was established with Ghana in 1984 has
enabled COte d'Ivoire to import substantial amounts of electricity in
recent years at costs below the marginal cost of thermal production. The
decline in oil product prices and the higher payments being asked by the
Volta River Authority (VRA) have resulted in the suspension of net imports
(energy exchanges have, however, continued as before).
It would be useful to explore the feasibility of concluding a new
contract (medium term if possible) with VkA on terms satisfactory to EECI.
In view of the probable decline in Ghana's export potential in the years
ahead and C6te d'Ivoire's desire to retain full autonomy as regards
electricity generation capacity, these possible imports will not be taken
into account in scheduling future production units.
IV.3 EECI Recovery Plan
EECI and the authorities have formulated a Recovery Plan for EECI
that will make the company efficient once again, reduce its costs, and put
it back on a sound and sustainable financial basis.



- 70 -
ANNEX III
Page 10 of 29
The principal features of this recovery plan are as follows:
(1)   Organization and human resources
The simplifications that have been made in the company's organization
chart are designed both to *decompartmentalize it and to trim its
structural costs.
The new structure calls for fouz diractorates (directions) instead of the
previous ten:
-   Directorate for Generation aid Transmission;
-   Directorate for Distribution;
-   Directorate for Personnel and Social Affairs;
-   Directorate for Planning and Finance.
Each of the two operational directorates will be responsible for
monitoring the capital projects it will be operating.
Following the staff cuts already implemented (280 employees out of a
total of 4,045) and those in progress (an additional 125 employees by
September 1988, bringing total staff numbers down to 3,640), EECI will
conduct a study into the quantitative and qualitative match between staff
on board and positions, together with a reorganization of the personnel
management system, with assistance from a specialized outside consultant.
The objectives of this study will be as follows:
-   adjust the size of the staff in light of productivity standards, taking
into account average skill levels to be found in C6te d'Ivoire;
-   examine wages and benefits in kind received by EECI staff from a dual
standpoint:
* the legitimacy of each staff member's assignment to a specific
category;
* the equivalency of total remuneration received by a given
category to that paid in other Ivorian public service companies.
-   assess whether staff in post, particularly those in professional
grades, are competent for the functions they perform and propose any
changes in assignment that may be necessary;
-   reorganize the human resource management system.
The following measures have already been taken:
-   allowances and social benefits have been reduced;



- 71 -
ANNEX III
Page 11 of 29
-   the balance-sheet bonus (prime de bilan) has been eliminated;
-   restrictions on benefits in kind (electricity at a preferential rate,
provision of housing, vehicles, etc.).
Recruitment has been frozen and the Centre des Mitiers de l'Electricitd
(CME - Electrical Trades Center) in Bingerville is now reserved
exclusively for continuing education.
The role of ongoing technical assistance has been redefined and
_~      supplementary technical assistance needs have been identified and will
shortly be in place.
(2)   Logistical resources
The Vehicle fleet will be cut by approximately 15 percent. Total
distances traveled each month and fuel consumption are already subject to
strict monitoring. Simplified administrative procedures for service
orders and other steps designed to improve garage efficiency will improve
vehicle availability ratios.
The policy on providing housing for staff will be reviewed in its
totality, with the object of substantially reducing the number of housing
units (currently some 1,060) owned outright by the company and of
eliminating virtually all of the rental agreements.
Measures will be taken to reduce water consumption and the use of postal
and telephone services.
(3)   Technical efficiency
Ongoing efforts to improve inventory management will be continued.
Following the recent completion of the general inventory, a computerized
management system will allow stocks to be gradually reduced. Rotation
times will be cut as follows:
-   1 month for fuel;
-   6 months for generation and transmission equipment;
-   6 months for distribution equipment.
Special attention will be paid to improving bill collection procedures,
reducing technical losses and combating fraud. The system for monitoring
energy generation and distribution will be strengthened by a program for
adding system instrumentation, currently under study.
Overall, the corrected losses for the technical effect linked to a
difference between the actual production plan and the standard production



- 72 -
ANNEX III
Page 12 of 29
plan, which were reduced to 13 percent under the Third Structural
Adjustment Program but which have since deteriorated to 17 percent in
1986/87, will be reduced again in accordance with the following timetable:
1987/88:                        15 percent;
1988/89:                        13 percent;
1989/90 and subsequent years:  12 percent.
All existing contracts will be systematically reviewed and renegotiated
where necessary. A single, transparent procedure for the letting of
contracts for the supply.of goods and services will be introduced.
(4)   Accotmting and audit procedures
Reorganization of the financial departments and of the data processing
department, a total recasting of the general accounting system, and the
introduction of a system of cost accounting and a comprehensive system of
budgetary controls are currently in progress with assistance from a
private firm which is also providing direct assistance for financial
management; this task will be continued until the reorganization has been
completed in its entirety.
The post of Government Commissioner (Commissaire du Gouvernement), which
has been vacant for a number of years, will again be filled. It will be
the duty of the incumbent, acting for and on behalf of the Government, to
verify the correctness of expenditure items, to check the accuracy of cost
calculations and to ensure that regulatory provisions and budget forecasts
are respected.
(5)   Financial obiectives of the recovery plan
Application of the recovery plan will enable operating costs (exclusive of
fuel and electricity purchases) to be held down to the following levels:
1987/88:              CPAF 36 billion;
1988/89:              CFAF 34 billion,
as compared with CPAF 45 billion in 1985/86.
(6)   Additional government measures
Government arrears, which had been cut to 4 months billings in 1986 and
1987 as a result of the Third Structural Adjustment Program, increased
again in the early months of 1988.
The quarterly payment of government invoices will now be replaced by a
monthly payment of one-twelfth of an estimated bill computed on the basis



- 73 -
ANNEX III
Page 13 of 29
of actual consumption figures for the previous year. The total period
allowed for certification of bills for payment will be broken down into
subperiods for each stage in the process, and a procedure for monitoring
these subperiod deadlines will be put in place. The Energy Savings Office
within the Ministry of Industry will be strengthened to allow it to turn
its specific attention to government energy savings programs.
IV.4 Capital investment program
The deterioration in EECI'S financial situation and the fact that
electricity rates are already very high necessitate a pause in the company's
capital investment program, which is-also-made possible by the sharp downturn in
the growth of demand.
New capital investments will be limited to projects offering an
attractive financial return (10 percent immediate rate of return), which will
thus not at any time represent a burden on EECI's cash-flow situation.
(1)   Ongoing investment program
-     Aboisso micro power station
The project will be reexamined from the dual angle of its economic rate of
return and the possibility of reselling equipment already purchased for
it. A choice will be made between the following two options:
-   completing the project;
-   canceling the project and selling the equipment.
-     Transmission and distribution proiects
Programs in progress (essentially IVOINOR III and Extensions) will be
reexamined from the dual angle of their financial rate of return and the
possibility of using equipment already purchased for other purposes or
reselling it.
(2)   Future investment program
New thermal unit
Work will proceed on the detailed preliminary engineering for a thermal
project to be constructed prior to the entry into service of the SoubrE
dam in the event that demand grows more rapidly than expected (4 percent a
year) or it is decided to develop the natural gas field.
This thermal unit can operate on either 380 fuel oil or natural gas and.
depending on the outcome of economic studies to be carried out during the



- 74 -
ANNEX III
Page 14 of 29
initial phase, will include either a steam recovery system from the gas
turbines or a complete combined cycle.
Construction of the Soubre hydroelectric dam
Recent studies of production capacity have confirmed the priority nature
of the Soubre hydroelectric dam compared with any other site and compared
with any type of oil-fired thermal facility.
The feasibility study for the Soubre hydroelectric dam project will be
updated, and an environmental impact study will also-be-prepared.
The start-up date for the nroject, which will involve a five-year
construction period, will be selected in such a way as
-   to minimize the overall discounted cost of production
and, where possible,
-   to avoid the need to construct a less cost-effective thermal facility
in the interim.
The final decision, which should probably be taken toward the end of 1988,
will take account of the following additional factors:
-   Provided climatic risks are objectively taken into account, the
hydroelectric option is preferable to the thermal option, assuming
costs are equal, since the former will make use of a renewable form of
energy that will be lost for the number of years it is decided to
defer the project.
-   Foreign-exchange considerations definitely favor the Soubre dam
option.
-   More than any other project, construction of the Soubre dam would
contribute toward the maintenance of a minimum level of economic
growth.
Alternatively, the desirability of developing offshore natural gas
reserves for use by EECI in existing power stations (after modification)
and subsequently in new power stations will be studied (see para. V.5).
Doubling of the Soubre-Taabo line
Because of its low rate of return, the plan to double the 225-kV
Soubre-Taabo line will be postponed, with entry into service timed to
coincide with the commissioning of the Soubre dam.



- 75 -
ANNEX III
Page 15 of 29
Rural electrification
As part of the process of formulating the National Energy Plan, recently
completed rural electrification projects will be evaluated, along with
those currently in progress, to determines
-   their financial rate of return for EECI, and
-   their socioeconomic impact on the community.
The results of this ex-post evaluation, together with the technical and
economic analysis of other approaches to electrification, investment
capacity and the quality of projects still outstanding, will serve as a
basis for a new rural electrification policy in COte d'Ivoire.
During this interim period (1988/C9), no new rural electrification
projects will be started unless a party other than EECI agrees to finance
that portion of the project that is not financially viable.
Urban electrification
Current unmet demand in urban and suburban areas is estimated at more than
50,000 customers.
EECI will continue its urban electrification program in a manner designed
to improve living conditions for, in particular, the disadvantaged groups
in society, provided such projects offer a satisfactory rate of return
(financial rate of return above 10 percent).
Long-term investment program
EECI will prepare a ten-year investment plan and will update this each
year in light of actual demand and the results of new technical studies.
DCGTx will monitor the preparation and updating of this plan.
(3)   Proiect implementation
Existing regulatory tests, more particularly Decree No. 81-824 of
September 25, 1981 reorganizing the Direction et ContrOle des Grands
Travaux (DCGTx - Direction and Supervision of Major Projects), the Code of
Government Contracts, the General Conditions applicable to works
contracts, and Presidential Letter No. 179/PR/CAB of March 5, 1987
enlarging the role of DCGTS, will be given effective application.
Except in certain justified cases, the procedure applied shall be that of
calling for bids, and the use of a list of preestablished prices to which
a distance coefficient is applied shall be abandoned.
In accordance vith existing legislation, the Direction et ContrOle des
Grands Travaux (DCGTx) will be specifically responsible for studies and



- 76 -
ANNEX III
Page 16 of 29
the monitoring of studies, the awarding of contracts and the supervision
of works projects.
The desirability of renegotiating current contracts will be examined on a
case-by-case basis.
IV.5 EECI Financial Restructuring Plan
Based on the financial accounts as of March 31, 1989, the primary
insLrurients for the financial restructuring of EECI (excluding implementation of
the recc;very plan set forth in detail above) are summarized below:
-     a loan from the Government to EECI, in the amount of CFAF 60 billion, at
the Standard Discount Rate (Taux d'Escompte Normal - TEN) applied by the
Central Bank of West African v-ates (BCEAO), currently 8.5 percent, for a
period of 10 years, with a repayment schedule tailored to the company's
casn-flow situation;
-     settlement of outstanding arrears from the Central
Government and equivalent agencies:                       CFAF 10.5 billion;
-     EECI participation (estimated)                            CFAF  4.5 billion.
These funds will be used as follows:
-     arrears to suppliers                                      CFAF 13.8 billion;
-     bank overdraft                                            CFAF 19   billion;
-     arrears on long-term debt                                 CFAF 39.2 billion;
-     arrears to local governments (mairies)                    CFAF  3   billion.
Following an initial disbursement of CFAF 4 billion in March 1988, the
remaining balance of the Government's net transfer to EECI amounts to CFAFl24.2
billion. The entire amount of disbursements under the first tranches of the
sectoral adjustment loans, scheduled for the third quarter of 1988, will be
devoted to effecting this transfer in a single phase, and will allow EECI to
settle immediately its arrears to suppliers and its bank overdraft.
EECI's own participation in the financial restructuring exercise, in
the amount of approximately CFA? 4.5 billion, is expected to take the following
form:
transfer of certain nonoperational assets, notably detached housing
(villas) and equity holdings;
transfer to local banks of loans to EECI staff for purchase of housing.
Capitalization of part of EECI's long-term debt has also been studied.



- 77 -
ANNEX III
Page 17 of 29
This one-stage financial restructuring will have the following effects
in macroeconomic terms:
-     settlement of claims and debts between the public sector and the
parastatal sector, on the one hand, and with the private sector on the
other (the tax authorities will collect tax and other arrears from EECI's
suppliers);
-     local banks will be able to deploy the resources they have long had tied
up in EECI to support other sectors of the economy.
IV.6  Electricity charges
As of October 1, 1988 electricity tariffs will be reduced as follows:
-     reduced LT res$.dential rate:  24 percent, in order to bring the
reduced-rate electricity tariff into line with other reduced-rate public
service charges;
-     MT industrial rate:  10 percent, in order to participate in the national
effort to reduce factor costs of production as a means of making Ivorian
manufacturing enterprises more competitive.
Having regard to the reduction in annual operating costs (CFAF/9
billion in 1987/88 and CYAF 11 billion in subsequent years) and the elimination
of EECI's bank overdraft, the effect of these rate reductions (CFAF 4 billion
drop in revenues) would remain consistent with the objectives of restoring
financial equilibrium to the power sector.
Furthermore, as part of the preparation of the National Energy Plan, a
comprehensive study will be undertaken of the rate structure for energy
services, with the following objectives in particular:
-     identification of rate distortions giving rise to energy consumption
patterns that run counter to the interests of the nation as a whole;
-     revision of the rate structure.
IV.7  Institutional aspects
Within the framework of the concession system established under the
law of July 1985, the supplementary texts envisaged therein will be finalized
and put into effect. The texts in question are the General Agreement
(Convention G4nErale) concluded between the Government and EECI determining
their mutual relationship, and the Specifications (Cahier des Charges)
discussing technical problems relating to the generation, transmission and
distribution of electrical energy. These texts, which are permanent in scope.
will be supplemented by a performance contract (contrat-plan) defining the two
parties' mutual obligations. The performance contract, which will be valid for



- 78 -
ANNEX III
Page 18 of 29
a period of three years (numerical data may be updated each year if required),
will deal with the following topics in particular:
-     the objectives and content of development programs relating to power
generation, transmission and distribution;
-     expected changes in staff numbers;
key elements of the company's social policy and wage policy, including
employee profit sharing schemes;
service quality standards, users' rights and public service requirements;
key elements of the company's commercial and rate policies;
the company's goals in terms of technical and financial results;
the tax system applicable to the company;
definition of the tax system agreed to and accounting rules for
calculation of depreciation and provisions;
compensation mechanisms for any requirements mandated by the Government;
arrangements for payment of bills by the public and parastatal sectors;
penal measures relating to fraud by users and EECI employees.



- 79 -
ANNEX III
Page 19 of 29
V.    HYDROCARBONS
V.1   Exploration and Production
Recent years have been marked in the oil sector by the virtually total
cessation of exploration activities and a decline in production. After
exceeding 1 million tons in 1982 (a figure that was 15 percent higher than net
national consumption), production will dip to less than 700,000 tons in 1988,
and will decline to zero by 1990, unless new fields can be brought into
production. With Cate d'Ivoire again facing an era of energy dependence, it
would appear necessary to embark fairly speedily on a promo.ional campaign
designed to boost exploration and production of hydrocarbons: this task should
be facilitated by the prospect of a medium-term rise in the world price for a
barrel of oil.
The following actions are envisaged toward this end:
-     finalize the compilation of an overview of geological and geophysical data
on C8te d'Ivoire's offshore areas, and disseminate a promotional dossier
among potential international operators;
=     improve the range of incentives by introducing greater flexibility into
production-sharing agreements; responses to a new stendard contract
currently under preparation are to be elicited before the end of 1988.
As a result of the suspension of exploration activities and the
decline in production, the work of the Soci6ti Nationale d'Op6rations
P&trolieres (PETROCI) has slowed considerably, making it necessary both to
redefine the missions assigned to it and to redimension it for a level of
activities commensurate with the current situation and the situation which is
likely to prevail over the medium term. A study has been initiated under the
Third Structural Adjustment Program to this end. Following this study, now
nearing completion, a reorganization program for PETROCI will be implemented,
focusing on the following objectives:
-     concentration of technical skills on PETROCI's key areas of activity,
namely exploration and production;
-     streamlining of PETROCI's administr&tive and financial structure and
reduction in its operating costs.
Barring any new element that phase 2 of the study might introduce in
the way of new parameters governing the future of exploration and production in
COte d'Ivoire over the next few years, the broad lines of the restructuring plan
for PETROCI will be as follows:
(a)   Role of PETROCI
-   promote exploration by private companies;



- 80 -
ANNEX III
Page 20 of 29
-   participate in production activities, more particularly with a view to
acquiring (over the medium term) know-how as an operator that
could also be applied for the development of small fields, not only in
the offshore areas where prospects have been identified, but also for
potential reserves that might come to light from the recently
completed geological overview;
-   make its technical know-how available to the Ministry of Mining for
the renegotiation and monitoring of production-sharing agreements;
-   manage Government equity participations in petroleum sector companies.
(b) PETROCI oruanization
-   cut staff numbers to bring the size of the company into line with the
current level of activity and that expected over the next five years,
thereby reducing operating costs, and also raise the level of staff
motivation;
-   improve management methods and tools.
The following imm-diate measures will be implemented even before the
restructuring plan for PETROCI is finalized:
-     appointment of a Director of Exploration and Production and a Head of the
Geology Department;
_     freeze on hiring;
-     finalizaUion of details for the transfer of the PETROCI wharf to SIR;
-     study of the desirability of transferring PETROCIs equity holdings in
SIBP and Shell;
-     study of the desirability of paying back the World Bank loan early;
-     repatriation of PETROCI deposits with foreign banks;
-     implementation of a data processing audit.
V.2   Refining
The rapid growth in consumption of oil products that C6te d'lvoire
experienced during the period 1970-80 prompted the decision to doub.e the
throughput capacity of the Soci4tG Ivoirienne de Raffinage (SIR). As a result
of substantial cost overruns and a decline in domestic demand, SIR faced a very
difficult situation just am its new hydrocracker came on stream, necessitating
the introduction of a rehabilitation plan in 1984. Better technical controls
and the development of export sales and processing activities brought an
appreciable improvement in the situation, so that it is now characterized by



- 81 -
ANNEX III
Page 21 of 29
virtually full utilization of capacity (3.5 million tons/year) and steadily
declining production costs. SIR is now responsible for obtaining its own crude
supplies (except for certain domestic crudes) and
for its exports of refined products. As a result of debt service obligations
contracted at the time of the refinery expansion. refinery gate prices for the
domestic market are still relatively high in relation to world markets
(averaging 60 percent higher), but the company's technical and financial
management can now be regarded as satisfactory.
A mechanism for setting offtake prices for refined products for the
domestic market, instituted in January 1988 under the Third Structural
Adjustment Program, will encourage SIR to optimize its management practices and
also authorizes it to earn a profit on the domestic market.
The prospect of the appearance of additional refining capacity in West
Africa (more particularly in Nigeria) will necessitate particular vigilance in
this sector.
The objective will therefore be to continue the ongoing rehabilitation
program. Resu)ts already achieved in the areas of loss reduction, optimization
of feedstock choices and progressive alignment of ex-refinery prices on
international prices need to be consolidated. SIR will also carry out a program
for gradual staff reduction. Short-term capital investments will be limited ti
certain los-s-reduction projects.
A system for the quarterly setting of offtake prices for bitumen
produced by the Soci4t4 Multinationale de Bitume (SMB) for the domestic market
will be introduced in a manner comparable to that for SIR. The study on the
desirability of fully integrating SIR and SMB will be implemented, following the
technical integration phase that has alread- been completed.
By following a fully autonomous commercial and pricing policy, both
SIR and SMB will endeavor to gain new export markets. The recent deregulation
of prices of hydrocarbons being shipped to Mali and Burkina Faso, together with
the competitive edge enjoyed by transit through C8te dllvoire, should make it
possible to recover these markets.
Lastly, the role and utilization of the Centre de Formation des
Techniques Pdtroliares (Oil Technology Training Center) in Grand-Bassam will be
reexamined, with a view to either making tetter use of the existing
infrastructure or to reducing operating costs.
V.3   Storage and distribution
The distribution of hydrocarbons has been wholly assigned to private
companies, currently seven in number; these companies have four medium-sized
depots in Abidjan and one in San Pedro, together with a network of approximately
500 service stations.



- 82 -
ANNEX III
Page 22 of 29
In 1984, in order to ensure the availability of strategic reserves,
the Ivorian Government established three sizable depots in Abidjan, Bouake snd
Yamoussoukro. Responsibility for managing these reserves was assigned to the
Socidte de Gestion des Stocks Petroliers de Cote d'Ivoire (GESTOCI), a special
mixed-economy enterprise: the State holds 1/8 of the shares but has special
veto powers, while the remaining 7/8 of the shares are held by the seven private
distribution companies.
Given the presence of multiple depots, and as a result of the fact
that demand has remained flat whereas the strategic reserves were calculated on
the basis of pre-1978 growth rates, there is now significant excess storage
capacity. Moreover, in light of the current relative security in regard to
petroleum supplies and the financial difficulties facing the country, Cote
d'Ivoire's strategic reserves would appear to be overlarge. Similarly, the
network of service stations would appear to be larger than current or
foreseeable medium-term demand would require. General restructuring of the
distribution sector would therefore seem to be called for; the object being to
reduce the cost of distribution for the community at large, but not to reduce
geographical coverage or quality of service.
Regulations governing the strategic petroleum reserve will be revised
to take reasonable account of the duration of alternative methods of supply in
the event of a break in SIR production. The required strategic reserve will
therefore be reduced from 60 days to 45 days of national consumption. To take
account of the finarcial problems currently facing the nation, the rate at which
reserves are being built up will be cut by 60 percent; from the current level of
34 days of national consumption, strategic reserves will have reached the
regulation level by the second half of 1989.
The restructuring of the sector proper will aim essentially at making
better use of the (more modern and more cost-effective) storaee facilities
available to GESTOCI, and making appropriate adjustments to other depots and
service station networks to bring them into line with actual needs. The GESTOCI
depot in Abidjan will no longer be devoted exclusively to strategic reserves but
will alsc be used for Abidjan distribution operations; the same will apply to
the Bouake and Yamoussoukro depots, which perform a similar role in the
interior. This will make it possible to shut down some of the small, high-cost
depots belonging to the private distributors.
The current concentration of road tankers aroumd these depots, located
along the Canal de Vridi, which is both rather dangerous and costly in terms of
vehicle waiting times, will be eliminated, as the up-to-date facilities owned by
GESTOCI allow much larger volumes to be handled.
The role of the private companies in the management of GESTOCI can be
redefined in such a way as to promote effective integration of the various depot
facilities and also to guarantee sound management of the company on a lasting
basis: through its minority equity stake, the Government would retain
continuing control over the availability of strategic stocks [and) and the



- 83 -
ANNEX III
Page 23 of 29
company's dynamic export performance, even though it would be giving up its
special powers.
Following the completion of additional work, four tanks belonging to
GESTOCI, representing virtually all of the remaining overcapacity, would be
leased to SIR to allow the latter to export products in larger and thus more
competitive quantities.
Direct storage agreements might be concluded with the oil companies in
the event that SIR fails to achieve its export goals.
GESTOCI, in conjunction with RAN, will adopt a more aggressive
marketing and pricing policy designed to make the transit route through Cote
d'Ivo4re more competitive for supplying the landlocked countries of Mali and
Burkina Faso. The object will be to attract a larger share of the flow of
hydrocarbons to those countries (whether these are produced by SIR or imported
through the port of Abidjan).
As regards the network of service stations, the plan for restructuring
of the distribution sector, to be prepared by the authorities in close
collaboration with the private companies, will call for the elimination of
little-used service stations which duplicate others in the same locality.
The reduction in the number of depots and service stations and the
trimming of overhead costs for the companies will result in sizable savings,
which will be reflected in the regulated pricing system. Consideration will be
given to selling off PETROCI's equity holdings in the distribution companies.
Gaz de COte d'Ivoire, the company responsible for distribution of gas
in the city of Abidjan, which has EECI has its major shareholder and which is
experiencing severe financial problems, will be rehabtlitated; here too,
consideration will be given to selling off EECI's equity shareholding.
Transportation of hydrocarbons will be rationalized by making more
systematic use of less expensive modes of transport:
-     rail transport, which is already used to supply the depots at Bouake and
Yamoussoukro, could also be use to supply the northern part of the country
and possibly Mali:
-     water transport could again be used to supply the southwestern and western
parts of the country, together with Guinea.
Feasibility studies have already demonstrated a very high rate of
return from construction of two intermediate depots at Ferkess4dougou and San
Pedro. Preparatory work for these projects will be completed and, provided
answers can be found to issues still pending (future of the railway and Halian
participation in the Ferkeseddougou depot), the go-ahead will be given for their
construction.



- 84 -
ANNEX III
Page 24 of 29
In the long run, the presence of a number of depots throughout the
national territory will make it possible to consider amending the price
equalization system, thereby reducing fraud and allowing competition to emerge.
V.4   Prices
The current system of price regulation and taxation is not only
antiquated but also ill-suited to adjustment for changes in cost-determining
factors and highly complex into the bargain. It masks the effects of
cross-subsidies not only within the sector but also between the hydrocarbons
sector and other sectors.
The current system will therefore be revised as follows:
greater transparency and more representative costs;
incentives for increased productivity by adopting an all-inclusive and
normative approach to determination of individual cost elements (except
for those that depend on external parameters beyond local control, such as
oil prices and currency exchange rates);
maintenance of a tax system compatible with the Government's financial
needs;
elimination of implicit subsidies to other sectors of the economy;
productivity gains to be reflected in whole or in part in prices to the
consumer.
The complete restructuring of the price system, which can emanate only
from a full study encompassing all of the energy subsectors, will be implemented
as part of the preparation of the National Energy Plan. The following immediate
measures will, however, be taken:
-     consolidation of the introduction of a mechanism for setting ex-SIR
prices, and establishment of an equivalent system for SMB;
-     updating of distribution margins for products cor.-umed by EECI (380 FO and
NWO);
-     updating of the system of compensation for transportation costs (in
particular, account to be taken of the quality of the roa_ network, and
increased degressivity as a function of distance traveled);
-     20 percent cut in the price of industrial fuel oil (180 FO) to make
Ivorian industries more competitive;
-     15 percent cut in the price of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and
introduction of a price-equalization system (ex filling stations), as a
further means of making domestic industries moze competitive and also of



- 85 -
ANNEX III
Page 25 of 29
promoting the substitution of LPG for fuelwood (firewood and charcoal).
more particularly in the northern parts of the country, where shortages
are feared in the medium term.
For the immediate future, consumer prices of other oil products will
remain unchanged; lower supply costs will allow increased Government revenue and
productivity gains will offset lower prices for fuel oil and LPG.
A possible restructuring of the taz system to allow the introduction
of a Value Added Tax (VAT) and replace the system of direct exemptions will be
studied. Other methods of combating fraud will also be considered.
V.5   Development of offshore natural gas
COte d'Ivoire has offshore natural gas deposits that have not yet been
develG,.d (the Foxtrot field, identified in 1983, and probably several others as
well).
There are plans for use of this natural gas by EECI as fuel for its
thermal power stations, by SIR as refinery fuel, and by a number of other
industries located at Vridi.
Substitution of natural gas for both the fuel oil and the butane used
by SIR would free up an additional 20,000 tons a year of butane. This would
make it possible to meet the increase in demand expected from the LPG
promotional campaign and the reduction in LPG prices without having to resort to
imports.
As a first step, the financial feasibility study for the development
of offshore natural gas will be updated, while standard agreements will be
prepared for purchase of this gas from the oil companies and its resale to
users.
The egreements for resale of gas to users would have to reflect all or
part of the maan clauses of the purchase contract, namely:
-   breakdown of minimum offtake volumes;
-   price (tariff) brackets;
- price indexing formulas.
In the event that the authorities mandate that a state-owned company
purchase natural gas in order to ensure the overall profitability of the
project, a rate structure geared to the opportunity cost of natural gas for that
company will be applied.
In view of the threat to EECI's ability to meet the demand for
electricity in 1995 and subsequent years if no decision is taken in 1988 on
construction of the Soubre dam, the final choice between the two alternative
courses of action, namely:



- 86 -
ANNEX III
Page 26 of 29
-   construction of the Soubre dam (for start-up in 1995); and
- development of the gas field,
will if at all possible be taken before the end of 1988, and no later than the
end of June 1989, and negotiations with the oil companies will be expedited to
this end.
VI.   BIOMASS AND RENEWABLE ENERGY
VI.l. Use of agroindustrial wastes
Among the various possibilities of making use of biomass for energy
generation, special attention will be paid tc agroindustrial wastes, as these
represent a concentrated potential source of energy that is still barely tapped.
-   Timber industry
Societe Thanry at Guiglo is currently installing a 1.6 MW power
station that will convert wood processing wastes into electricity for
consumption on site. After they have had the opportunity to study the technical
and financial results of this pilot experiment, the authorities may encourage
other companies engaged in the primary processing of timber to build power
stations of the same type and thus make full use of all their waste material.
- Coffee hulling
The potential energy to be derived from coffee hulling wastes is
estimated at approximately 80 GWh at a cost which preliminary studies show to
fall in the range of CIA? 10 to CPAF 15 per kWh. The authorities will use their
best endeavors:
-   to carry out technical tests designed to verify the feasibility of
this type of project (preliminary tests will be conducted shortly at
Guiglo);
-   if the results are conclusive, to encourage coffee hulling companies
to become autonomous in terms of their electricity needs and possibly
to sell their surplus production to EECI.
-   Other agroindustrial wastes
Work will continue on studies designed to promote more systematic use
of agroindustrial wastes, notably waste materials from the following industries:



- 87 -
ANNEX III
Page 27 of 29
-   palm oil;
-   sugar.
VI.2 Firewood and charcoal
Firewood and charcoal Lepresent more than 50 percent of national
energy consumption. They are used by households but also by a large number of
craft and other activities (restaurants, blacksmiths, metal casters, jewelers.
laundries, potters, bakers, fish-smokers, etc.).
Thus this source of energy plays a not inconsiderable role in Cote
d'Ivoire's domestic economy.
With the gradual disappearance of our forests, the collection of a
sizable volume of wood energy is running into problems, particularly near cities
of a certain size, which are now surrounded by a halo of deforestation.
At current rates, shortages will soon appear unless measures are taken
to reduce the cutting of timber for firewood, particularly in the savanna
regions of the North and Center.
Recent studies on "Possibilities of supplying the city of Korhogo with
firewood and charcoal* and 'The supply of domestic energy in the city of
Abidjan" have highlighted the need for a general study covering the entire
nation. to be carried out as part of the process of preparing the National
Energy Plan.
The following measures will be taken as of now, in close conjunction
with those already decided upon, as part of the new forestry policy, namely:
-   increase the-productivity of existing resources by adopting measures
for the development and rational exploitation of the country's
forests;
-   create new fuelwood resources, particularly by encouraging 'popular
reforestation' and improving the traditional system of forest fallow;
-   improve conversion techniques:
at the production end, particularly by promoting the use of
higher-yield carbonization techniques;
at the user end, by studying, fabricating and promoting the use of
improved stoves;
-   improve collection and the commercial organization of distribution,
essentially through assistance toward better organization of the
occupational categories involved, improved methods of transportation



- 88 -
ANNEX III
Page 28 of 29
and intermediate storage, and the establishment of marketing
cooperatives;
- promote replacement fuels, particularly liquefied petroleum. gas (LPG);
-   promote the more systematic use of waste products from wood processing
industries, particularly through a targeted tax policy and incentives
for the use of currently unused transportation capacity (trucks
deadheading from forest regions to major consumption centers).
VI.3 Solar energy
The authorities are attentive to advances in photovoltaic systems,
particularly in regard to applications for rural electrification, and propose to
conduct a technical and economic trial in this area. Household uses of solar
energy, e.g. foy 'ater heating, will be encouraged.
VII. SECTOR COORDINATION
The energy sector falls within the purview of several ministerial
departments, and in the past this has not always facilitated the coordinatlon of
studies and interventions. Thus there would seem to be a need both for an
organization to harmonize and prepare decisions at the government level and for
instruments to plan and monitor the execution of action programs.
In order to improve coordination in the ene:gy sector, the Government
will set up a National Energy Commission (Commission Nationale de l'Energie),
with the following as members:
-     the Third Minister of State;
-     the MLnister of Mining;
-     the Minister of Industry;
-     the Minister of Water and Forestry Resources;
-     the Minister of Economy and Finance;
-     the Minister of Budget;
-     the Minister of Planning;
-     the Director General of Direction et Contr6le des Grands Travaux,
or their representatives. The Third Minister of State will chair the National
Energy Commission.
In addition, subsectoral monitoring committees will be set up during
the period of ezecution of the Energy Sector Adjustment Program.
The monitoring committee for the electricity subsector, made up of
representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Ministry of Industry



- 89 -
ANNEX III
Page 29 of 29
and Direction et Contr8le des Grands Travaux, will be particularly responsiale
for monitoring implementation of the recovery plan for EECI.
The monitoring committee for the hydrocarbons subsector will be made
up of representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Ministry of
Mining and Direction et Contr8le des Grands Travaux.
Diraction et ContrOle des Grands Travaux, acting for and on behalf of
the National Energy Commission, will set up a permanent planning unit for the
energy sector, in consultation with all of the entities involved. Over the
period 1988-89, this permanent planning unit will be charged with coordinating
and monitoring the preparatory studies for the National Energy Plan, which have
been assigned to two p:ivate consulting firms.
Once the Goverr,ment has adopted the resulting action program, the
permanent unit will monitor implementation of the plan and assess the impact of
the measures adopted.
(Translation ISRO]



- 91 -
Annex IV
Page I of 8
July 10, 1989                     PLAN OF ACTION
Anticipated Implementation
Period
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
-     Strengthening of Energy Efficiency Bureau 1/           1989-1990
-     Reduction of energy consumption in the public
sector                                                 1989-1990
-     Promotion of energy efficiency in the residential
sector                                                 1989-1990
-     Promotion of energy efficiency in the industrial
sector 1/                                              '989-1990
ELECTRIC POWER
Generation Policy:
-     Presentatiork of generation plan for 1989/90           September 1989
-     Updating of generation plan for 1989/90                March 1990
-     Rehabilitation of groups 1 and 2 of the Vridi
power station
Execution of works 1/                              Late 1991
-     Rehabilitation of groups 3 and 4 of the Vridi
power station
Execution of works l/                              Late 1991
-     Rehabilitation of hydro power stations
Execution of works 1/                              Late 1992
-     Report on negotiations with the VRA                    December 1989
EECI Recovery Plan:
-     Staff cutbacks:
Phase 1                                            Completed
I/    Subject to obtaining financing and/or to direct contracting.



- 92 -
Annex IV
Page 2 of 8
Phase 2                                             September 1989
Phase 3 (if applicable)                             June 19.90
Reduction of allowances and benefits                   Completed
Limitation of noncash benefits                         Completed
Reorganization of internal structure                   Completed 2/
Introduction of supplementary technical
assistance 3/                                          1989-1990
Evaluation of employee/job matches and assessment
of required staffing and skill levels (Arthur Young/
TRACTEBEL study)                                       January 1990
Reduction of vehicle fleet:
Phase 1                                             Completed
Phase 2                                             September 1989
Phase 3 (if applicable)                             June 1990
Restrictions on mileage and transport allowances       Completed
Reorganization of garage                               In progress
Restrictions on telephone use                          Completed
- New personnel housing policy:
Adoption                                            March 1990
Date of effectiveness                               June 1990
Analysis of turnover and optimum use of inventory    September 1989
Reduction of billing delays (private subscribers)    Completed
Introduction of the BT2 system (customer
management), updating of subscriber lists,
completion of full inventory of subscriber accounts  September 1989
Introduction of new general accounting software
package                                                September 1989
Strengthening of the system used to track energy
produced and sold                                      1989-1990
Reduction of technical losses                          1989-1990
Strengthening of fraud detection procedures            Completed
Introduction of increased penalties for fraud          Completed
Review and renegotiation of contracts                  1989
Reorganization of Finance Directorate and appointment
of a director:
Reorganization of the Directorate                   September 1989
Appointment of the director                         January 1990
Reorganization of computing activities:
Master plan                                         Completed
Doubling of computer capacity                       Completed
Re-establishment of the Procurement Committee          Completed
2/    Varie from the original Recovory Plan.
3/    Subject to obtaining financing and/or to diroct contracting.



-93.
Annex IV
Page 3 of 8
GovernLment Support Arrangements;
Introduction of new process for budgeting,
approval and payment of public-sector accounts
(centra: goveranmeat departments, munaicipalities
and statutory bodies)                                   Late 1989
Investments:
Review of projects in progress:
Micro hydro plant at Aboisso                             Completed
IVOINOR III and extensions:
- erection of the Abobo-Vridi and Serebou-
Tanda lines. 225 kV and 90 kV respectively           March 1990
-  miscellaneous                                        December 1990
Study of expansion of thermal generation capacity   June 1990
Updating of the Soubrd hydro project                    June 1990
Soubre hydro project environmental impact study         June 1990
Decision on next investment in generation               June 1990
Ex-post evaluation of completed rural
electrification projects and reformulation
of policy                                               Late 1990
Pursuit of urban network extensions;
execution of works:
Phase 1 4/                                           March 1992
Phase 2 4/                                           Late 1992
Formulation7of a 10-year generation and transmission
investment plan                                         July 1990
Financial Restructuring:
Grant of long-term State loan to EECI
Phase 1:                                                  October 1988
Amount: CFAF 20 billion
Interest rate: 8.5Z
Grace period: 5 years
Repayment period: 5 years
4/ SutJ ct to obtaining financing and/or to direct contracting.



94 -
Annex IV
Page 4 of 8
Phase 2:                                                  August 1989
Amount: CFAF 12 billion -
Interest rate: 8.5?
Grace period:  1 year
Repayment period: 10 years
Phase 3:                                                  October 1989
Loan 1   Loan 2   Loan 3
Amount: (billions of CFAF)         10         5         13
Interest rate:                     5.5?       7.5?      8.5?
Grace period:                      5 yrs      5 yrs    1 yr
Repayment period:                 10 yrs    10 yrs   10 yrs
EECI participation in the financial restructuring:
* Transfer (after completion of a study) of some
real estate assets (CFAF 2 billion)                   September 1990
*  Transfer of EECI equity in Gaz de Cote d'Ivoire  September 1990
 Sale to private banks of EECI staff housing
loans (CFAF 2.5 billion)                              September 1990
* EECI resources from 1988-89 and 1989-90
(operating surpluses and lower working
capital needs).  Amount:  CFAF 10.3 billion           September 1990
Settlement of State arrears for electricity consumption:
Phase 1:  CFAF 0.0 billion                            October 1988
Phase 2:  CFAF 4.4 billion -                          August 1989
Phase 3:  CFAF 1.8 billion                            October 1989
Settlement of EECI arrears to Caisse autonome
d'amortissement 7/
Phase 1:  CFAF 20 billion                             October 1988
Phase 2:  CFAF 12 billion                             August 1989
Phase 3:  CFAF 17 billion                             October 1989
5/    Includes the CFAF 4 billion from the first disbursed trenche of the AWSB loan
initially ellocated tp EECI.
6/    From the second disbursed tranche of the AfDB loan.
7/    These figures are based on the EEC! accounts for September 30, 1989 and will be
updated when the utility's financial statements are issued (on March 31 and September
30, 1989)



_ 95 -
Annex IV
Page 5 of 8
7/
Settlement of EECI arrears to suppliers: -
Phase 1:  CFAF 0.0 billion                          October 1988
Phase 2:  CFAF 0.9 billion                          August 1989
Phase 3:  CFAF 7.1 billion                          October 1989
Redu:tion of bank overdraft: -/
Phase 1:  CFAF 0.0 billion                          October 1988
Phase 2:  CFAF 3.5 billion                          August 1989
Phase 3:  CFAF 9.7 billion                         Otober 1989
Settlement of balance of bank overdraft: 7/            September 1990
Amount: CFAF 7.3 billion
Settlement of EECI debts to the private sector:
CFAF 3.5 billion                                       September 1990
Feasibility study on EECI capitalization project    December 1989
Electric Power Tariffs
Cuts in low-income LV rate (excluding fees and
municipal tax):
Phase 1:  From 52.7 F/kWh to 44.7 F/kWh             October 1, 1989
Phase 2:  From 44.7 F/kWh to 38.7 F/kWh             April 1, 1990
Cut in industrial MV rate (10t) by
introducing a VAT component
Study on revision of the tariff structure and
introduction of the VAT:
Phase 1:  MV industrial rate                        Completed
Phase 2:  All other rates                           Late 1990
Institutional components
Preparation of draft versions of:
the General Conditions of the public service concession for
electricity generation, transmission and distribution; and the
initial fixed-term implementing performance contract between the
State and EECI.                                     October 1989  -
Signature of the General Conditions and the initial
fixed-term performance contract.                       March 1990
HYDROCARBONS
Exploration and Production:
Drafting of new standard contract (version No. 3)   Completed
Issue of consolidated report on geological and



- 96 -
Annex IV
Page 6 of 8
geophysical data related to the Ivorian offshore
zone                                                   Completed
Preparation of promotion campaign documents and
launching of campaign to interest international
operators in new standard contract applicable to
production sharing agreements                          February 1990
Plan for raorganization of PETROCI:
Appointment of a Director of Exploration and
Production                                         Late 1989
Reorganization of internal structure                June 1990
Audit of PETROCI's information resource
management                                          June 1990
Hiring freeze                                      Completed
Staffing cutbacks                                   1989-1990
Transfer of PETROCI wharf facilities to SIR         Late 1989
Completion of study of transfer of
PETROCI equity holdings in SIBP and SHELL              Late 1989
Analysis of advance repayment of
World Bank loan to PETROCI                             Completed
Repatriation of PETROCI funds on deposit
with banks abroad                                      Completed
Refining:
Execution of projects to reduce SIR losses             1989-1990
SIR human resources management plan:
Adoption                                            Completed
Introduction                                        1989-1990
Consolidation of new mechanism for
setting SIR ex refinery prices                         September 1989
Introduction of a mechanism for setting
SHB ex refinery bitumen prices                         September 1989
Study on appropriateness of total integration of
SIR and SMB                                            Late 1989
Redef'.nition of role of Grand Bassam
Petrrleum Technology Training Center and of
arrangements for its use                               1989-1990
Storage and Distribution:
Amendment of regulations governing security stockpile
ceiling (from 60 to 45 days' consumption ) and
procedures for establishing emergency stocks
of petroleum products                                  Late 1989
Rental of 4 GESTOCI tanks to SIR after
completion of related civil engineering works          September 1989
Incentives for GESTOCI to export its services
to Mali and Burkina Faso                               September 1989
Negotiation with private sector of plan for
reorganizing the distribution sector and of time-



- 97 -
Annex IV
Page 7 of 8
table of progressive cutbacks in distributors'
margins. Redefinition of private-sector role in
management of State storage facilities                June 1990
Completion of feasibility study on construction
of hydrocarbons depot at San Pedro                    Completed
Introduction of a revised pricing and taxation of
petroleum products:
Institution of new framework for petroleum
product price structures                           Late 1989
Lowering of distributors' margins on fuels used
by EECI, retroactive to January 1, 1988
(in context of settlement of EECI arrears
to SIBP)                                           Late 1989
Cut of 162 in price of 180 fuel-oil by
introducing a VAT component                        Late 1989
Cut of 15X ir. the price of bottled LPG and
introduction of system to e(,uaiize prices ex
filling centers                                    Late 1989
Updating of method of remunerating transpor-
tation costs, specifically by allowing for
condition of road network and making
system more degressive according to distance       Late 1989
Study on introducing the VAT on all
petroleum products                                 Late 1990
Identification and introduction of anti-fraud
measures                                           Late 1989
Natural Gas:
Study for drafting of promotional documents           Late 1989
Completion of preparation of promotional documents  Late 1989
Opening of discussion proceedings with operators    March 1990
Negotiation of contracts for purchase and
resale of natural gas (if applicable)                 1990
BIOMASS
Utilization of Agro-Industrv Residues:
Monitoring of pilot project being conducted by
THANRY corporation at Guiglo                          1989-1990
Pilot project to develop uses of coffee-hulling
residues                                              1989-1990
Pursuit of studies to develop uses for oil-palm
and sugar industry residues                           1989-1990



- 98 -
Annex IV
Page 8 of 8
Fuelvood and Charcoal:
-     Promotion of burning techniques that give higher heat
output of charcoal produced                           1989-1990
-     Promotion of manufacture and use of improved
cooking stoves                                        1989-1990
-     Encouragement of greater use of wood-processing
residues                                              1989-1990
SOLAR ENERGY
-     Assessment of potential through detailed examination
of existing data                                      December 1989
-     Monitoring of pilot project under way in village of
Amanguoua-Koi (Port Bouet district)                   1989-1990
-     Testing and installation of 100 solar lamps           1989-1990
SECTOR COORDINATION
-     Setting up of committees to monitor electricity
and hydrocarbon subsectors                            Completed
-      )Drafting of National Energy Plan                    December 1990
AfI
TrsnsI.tbon: IBRO



- 99 -
Annex V
Page 1 of 2
PETROCI - Summary Financial Statements
(Billion CFAF)
84/85    85/86    86/87   87188
Income
Sales                                  67.4      45.6    16.3      8.2
Less: Cost of Sales                    54.4      40.1    14.7      8.2
Cash Operating Expenses           8.5      4.9      2.5      2.6
Depreciation and Pt)visions       8.0       4.3     5.8      4.2
Net Operating Income                   -3.5      -3.6    -6.8    -6.8
Plus: Other Income and Adjustment    10.2         7.7     6.8      7.7
Less: Interest                          5.2       4.0      2.5     1.6
Taxes                              ..        ..     0.2      0.2
Net Income After Taxes                  1.4       0.0    -2.7    -0.9
Operating Ratio (Total Exp./Sales)    0.9         1.0      1.1     1.3
ROR (Op. Income/Fixed Assets)          -8.2      -9.9   -21.7   -25.6
Funds Flow
SOURCES
Depreciation and Provisions             8.0       4.3     5.8      4.2
Net Income After Taxes                  1.4       0.0    -2.7    -0.9
Total Cash from Operations              9.4       4.3     3.2      3.3
Plus: New Borrowings                    1.6       1.2
Subsidies on Security Stock       5.7      5.8      3.2      3.9
FAP                               0.8      0.6      2.8      4.8
Total Sources of Funds                 17.5      11.9     9.2    12.0
APPLICATIONS
Investment in fixed Assets              0.8       0.3     0.3      0.3
Change in Working Capital              10.1      -2.1    -4.3    -0.5
Debt Repayment                          4.1       5.2     3.6      2,1
Total Applications of Funds            15.0       3.4    -0.4      1.9
Surplus/(Shortage)                2.6      8.5      9.7    10.1



- 100 -
Annex V
Page 2 of 2
PETROCI - Summary Financial Statements (continued)
(Billion CFAF)
84/85    85/86    86/87   87/88
Balance Sheet
ASSETS
Net Fixed Assets                      42.6      36.5    31.3    26.6
Inventories                            0.1       0.9     0.4     0.6
Accounts Receivable                   36.3      10.7     5.7      3.7
Cash and ST Holdings                  33.0      39.7    36.4    35.7
Total Assets                   112.0     87.9    73.8    66.6
LIABILITIES
Equity (incl. subsidies)              54.2      50.0    43.8    40.7
Net LIT Debt                          31.8      27.9    24.5    22.4
Current Liabilities                   25.9      10.0     5.5     3.5
Total Liabilities              112.0     87.9    73.8      66.6
Ratios
LMT Debt/lLMT Debt+Equity]              37%       36%     36%       41%
Equity/[LMT Debt+Equity]                63%       64%     64%      59%
Current Ratio                           2.7       5.1     7.7      11.4
Debt Coverage                           1.1       0.1    -0.3      -1.2
PETROCI - Summary Financial Projections
(Billion CFAF)
88/89     89190      90/91      91/92
Income
Sales                      8          6          4        10
Less: Cost of Sales        8          6          2         4
Cash Oper. Exp.      3         3          3          3
Depreciation/Prov.  3           3         3          5
Net Operating Income      -6         -6         -4        -2
Plus: Other Income         4          4          4         4
Less: Interest             2          2          2         2
Net Income After Taxes   -4          -4         -2         0
October 17, 1989



- 101 -                                      Annex VI
Pas-o T17 2
Soclote Ivoirionne do Reffinage
Summary Financial Statements
(Billion CFAF)
1984/86 1986/80 1986/87 1997/88
INCOME
Salos Domestic Market                   146.0    116.8     87.6      96.7
Exports/Third Party Processing          117.9     78.2     59.7     64.6
Corrections to Invontories                                 -6 2
Total Sales/processing                  283.8    195.9    147.4    160.3
Crude and Other Inputs                  217.7    146.7    113.9    124.2
Cash Operating Expenses                  10.9     10.6      7.0       7.3
Depreciation and Provisions              17.0     10 6      14.5     16.3
Not Operating Income                     18.2     20.2     11.9      12.4
Other Incom, and Adjustments              8.7      5.5      4.6       1.5
Interost                                 20.1     1386      9.6       8.4
Taxes                                     1.7      6.4      3.1       2.6
--        -----    ------    ------
Not Income After Taxes                    0.1      6.8      3.9       8.1
Operating Ratio (Op. Exp./Revenue)       93.1     89.6     91.9      92.2
ROR             (Op. Inc./F. Assets)    16.1      18.5     12.3      14.6
FUNDS FLOW
SOURCES
Depreciation and Provisions              17.0     16.6     14.6      18.3
Not Income After Taxes                    0.1      6.8      8.9       3.1
Total Cash from Operations               17.2     23.2     18.4      19.4
Now Borrowings
Subsidies/Adjustments                    3.6S    10.9       6.4       1.2
Total Sources of Funds                   507      34 .2    23.8      20.8
APPLICATIONS
Divlidends                                                            1.0
Investment in fixed Assots                0.7      2.2      2.8      386
Change in Working Capital                15.7     -2 3      11.9      0.8
Dobt Service                             27.4     12.8      14.7     18.1
Total Applications of Funds              43.8     12.7     29.4      28.4
Surplus/(Shortago)                        7.0     21.6      -65.     -2.9



- 102 -                                     Annex VI
Societe Ivoirlenno de Ratfinage
Suimary Financial Statements
(Billion CFAF)
(continuod)
1984/66 1956/86 1980/87 1987/88
BALANCE SHEET
ASSETS
Net Fixed Assets In Service             120.8    108.9     96.6      85.8
Work In Progress                          0.B      0.9      8.0       3.7
Total Not Fixed Aseots                  121.1    109.8     99.6      89.4
Invontories                              81.2    22.2      16.8      16.1
Accounts Receivable                      44.9    19.6      12.6      12.4
Othor Current Assets                     14.4     10.4     '8.0      16.1
Total Assetc                            211.6    102.0    146.-    12;2.0
LlABIUTIES
Equity                                   24.6     28.8     87.7      41.9
Net LUt Debt                            109.2     96.6     84.3      70.6
of which: Current Year's Maturity      18.2     18.6     16.0      18.1
Current Liabilities                      77.8    41;8      24.9      19.5
Total Liabilitios                       211.6    162.0    148.9    132.0
Working Capital                          12.8     10.5     22.3      23.1
Ratios:
LMT Dobt/LET Debt+Equityl                81.6     80.2     89.1      62.7
Equity/ELMT Debt*Equity]                 18.4     19.8     30.9      37.3
Current Ratio                             1.2      1.3      1.9       2.2
(Curr. Assets/Curr. Lia.)
Debt Coverage                             1.8      2.9      1.8       1.6
AFIIE
Octobe 17. 1989



COTE D'IVOIRE - EECI - COMBINED CYCLE SCENARIO - SALES GROWTH 3.5%                                                                               ANNEX VII
GENERATION - SALES                                                                                                                            Page 1 of 4
OWh
ACTUAL                                                        FORECAST
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1998    1997
Hydro                           1198     351    1175    1388      878      994    1054      983    1270    1470    1470    1470    1470    1470    1470
Thermal                         769    1258      515      455    1199    1208    1274    1419    1195    1081    1170    1263    1369    1458    1580
Purchases VRA                     21     202     322      217     165       74       0        0       0        0       0       0        0        0       0
Total GWh                      1988    1809    2012    2060    2232    2278    2328    2382    2485    2551    2840    2733    2829    2928    3030
HV Sales                         106     100     120      113     112      114     118      122     126      131     135     140      145     1SO      165
MV Sales                        834      757     863      908     979      998    1033    1069    1106    1145    1185    1227    1270    1314    1380
LV Sales                        853      721     784      769     777     822      851     881      912     944      977    1011    1046    1083    1121
Sales in OWh                   1793    1578    1717    1790    1888    1934    2002    2072    2144    2220    2297    2378    2461    2647    2638
Percent losses                  9.8    12.8    14.7    13.1    18.3    15.0    14.0    13.0    13.0    13.0    13.0    13.0    13.0    13.0    13.0
Average tariff,CFAF/kWh          37       44      47       47      47       47      47      48       46      4S       46      46       46      46       46
AFIIE
20-Nov-89
COTE D'IVOIRE - EECI - COMBINED CYCLE SCENARIO - SALES GROWTH 3.S5
DETAILED GENERATION
Cwh
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Kossou/Taabo                                                       78     214      183     175      389     531      089     Sb8      620     620      520
Soubre                                                                                                                                          0        0
Other hydro                                                       800     780      871     788      881     939      781     912      950     950      950
Total hydro                                                       879     994    1054      963    1270    1470    1470    1470    1470    1470    1470
Vridi steam                                                       896    1050    1050    1060       991    1077    l166    1239    11S5    1154        956
Vridi gas                                                         271     143      219     885      200       0        0       0      200       0        0
Vridi combined                                                                                                                                300      600
Other thermal                                                      33      1S        6       4        4       4        4       4        4       4        4
Total thermal                                                    1199    1208    1274    1419    1195    1081    1170    1263    1359    1468    1560
Purchases VRA                                                     155      74
Total                                                            2232    2278    2328    2382    2485    2551    2640    2733    2829    2928    3030
OQ Z
AFlIE/CS
20-Nov-89
0 i-4



COTE D'IVOIRE - EECI - COMBINED CYCLE SCENARIO - SALES GROWTH 3.6%                                                                                ANNEX VII
REVENUE ACCOUNT                                                                                                                                 Page 2 of 4
CFAF Billion
ACTUAL                                                         FORECAST
1983    1984    1985    1988    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Sales of power                    87      72       83      83       87       91      94       95      98      102     105      109      113     117      122
Other revenue                     14      1V        8        5      11       10       4        6       S        6       6        7        9      11       12
Total revenue                     81      83       91      88       98      101      98      100     103      107     111      116      122     128      134
Fuel                              14      39       18        7      17       13      14       17      15       12       13      14       18      17       18
VRA                                0        4       7        1       1        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0
Personnel                         14       16      17       17      19       19      18       16      18       16       17      18       18      19       19
Material/Services                 21       18      20      24       20       18      18       17      19       19      20       21       22      24       24
Other                              1        1       1        1       4        3       3        3       3        3       3        3        4       4        4
Redevance Taabo/Buyo               7        7       7        7       7        7       7        7       7        7        7       7        7       7        7
Depreciation/Prowlsions           20      22       24      30       31       38      30       32      34       36       37      39       41      44       48
Total op.expenses                 77     106       94       87      99       94      88       92      93       92      97      102      110     116      118
Operating incom_                   4     -22       -3        1      -1        7      12        8      10       15       14      14       12      13       16
Interest                           9      11       12      19       20       19      16       13      10       10       10      10        8       7        8
Net income before subs/adJ.       -5     -33      -15     -18      -21      -12      -4       -6       0        6        4       4        4       6        8
Op.subsidy/adjustments/tax.                        20        9
Not incoma*fter subs/adj.         -6     -33        6       -9     -21      -12      -4       -6       0        6        4       4        4       8        8
Operating ratio                   96     127      103      99      101       93      88       92      90       88       87      88       90      90       88
ROR                              1.9    -9.9    -1.3      0.4    -0.4       2.4     4.1      2.9     3.8      6.0     5.9      6.3      5.8     6.6      8.3
AFIIE
20-Nov-89
0 -
fD N
X1



COTE D'IVOIRE - EECI - COMBINED ZYCLE SCENARIO - SALES GROWTH 3.5w                                                                               ANNEX VII
BALANCE-SHEET                                                                                                                                 Page 3 of 4
CFAF Billion
ACTUAL                                                        FORECAST
1983    1984    1986    1988    1967    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    199S    1998    1997
Fixed Assets in op.             304      333     386      374     422      476     482      492     602     51S      527     639      551     588      600
Depreciation                     90      104     121      139     151      172     195     219      244     270      297     325      354     386      417
Net Fixed Assets in op.         214      229     246      236     271      303     287      273     258     246      230      214     197     203      183
Work in progress                 49       80      75      109      79       47      60       61      62       54      59       87      73       51      62
Total Fixed Assets              283      309     320      344     350      350     337     324      310     299      289     281      270     254      236
Cash                              1        1       1        3       2        3       2        2       2        2       9       17      26      38       57
Inventories                       5        7       7       10      11        9       8       7        6       6        6       7        8       e        8
Receivables                      31       38      35       30      30       32      25       19      20       20      21       22      23      23       24
Other current assets             12        S       5        a       8        9       6       6        6       6        8       6        6       6        6
Accrued revenue                   7        8      11        a       9        9       9        9       9       10      10       10      11      11       12
Total current *ssets             56       57      59       67      S8      62       SO      43       43      44       52      62       74      86      107
Total asset                     319      366     379      401     408     412      387     367      363     343      341     343      344     340      342
_  =                               --   =  =    =-                 =             -            .  =
Capital                           6        6       7        8       8        8       8       8        8       8        8       8        8       8        8
Reserves                          0      -33     -10      -30     -49      -81     -65     -70      -70     -6S      -61     -57      -63     -47      -39 
Provisions                      174      176     162      167     175      186     192     199      207     215      225     236      248     257      268
Equity                          180      149     169      145     134     133      135     137      146     158      172     186      201     218      237
LT Debt                          99              ISO 166  179     181     196      205     208      186     182      146     133      118     101       82
Consumers dgosits                 6        6       7        7       7        7       7       8        8       9        9       9       10      10       11
Suppliers                        10       24      19       18      27       13      10       5        6       6        6       7        8       4        6
Othor payable                    17       42      18       25      as      42       10       9        8       8        8       8        7       7        7
Bank overdraft                    8        3      10       27      24      21       20       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0
Total liabilities               319      306i    379      401     408     412      387     387      363     343      341     343      344     340      342
Debt/Debt-Equity                 3S       49      51       55      57      60       60      60      56       51       46      42       37      32       26
Equity/Debt+Equity               6s       51      49       45      43      40       40      40       44      49       54      68       63      68       74
Current ratio                   1.6      0.8     1.3     0.8      0.7     0.8      1.3     3.1      3.1     3.1      3.7     4.1      4.9     7.8      8.9
AflIE
20-Nov-89
o 
w. 
X~.
O C.



COTE D'IVOIRE - EECI - COMBINED CYCLE SCENARIO - SALES GROWTH 3.56                                                                                 ANNEX VII
FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT (83-93)                                                                                                                    Page 4 of 4
CFAF Billion
ACTUAL                                                         FORECAST
---------------------------------------------   Total   US S        ------------------------------------   Total   Total
1983    1984    1985    1988    1987    1988   83-88 Million    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993   89-93   90-93
Operating income                   4      -22      -3        1      -1        7     -14      -44       12       8       10      15       14       59      47
Depreciation/Provisions           18       20      23       30      30       36     157      491       30      32       34      35       37      168     138
Gross int.cash generation         22       -2      20       31      29       43     143      447       42      40       44      SO       61     227      18S
Working capital                    9      -38      31      -lO     -17       10     -15      -47       24      -1        0        1       1       25       1
Interest                           9      11       12       19      20       19      90      281      16       13       10      10       10      59       43
Principal                          9        7      10       1S      23       40     105      328       46      s0       20      20       22      167     112
Op.requireoents                   27     -20       63       26      26       69     180      663       85      62       30      31       33     241      156
NICG                              -5       18     -33        6       3      -26     -37    -116       -43     -22       14       19      18      -14      29
Investments                       39      60       28       42      26       21     215      672       10      11       11      1S       17      64       54
Diff-rence                        44       42      81       36      22       47     262      788       53      33       -3      -4       -1       78      26
financed by:
Capital increase                   0        0       1        1       0        0       2        6        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Operating subsidy                  0        0      20        0       0        0      20       63        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Other equity                      -1       -4      -2       -9      -1       -4     -21      -a6       -1      -1       -1      -1        0       -4      -3
Total equity                      -1       -4      19       -8      -1       -4        1       3       -1      -1       -1      -1        0       -4      -3
LT Debt                           38       SO      34       29      26       55     231      722       54      53       -2      -4        6      107      63      i-
Third parties                      1        1       1        0       0        0       3        9       0        1        0        1       0        2       2      0
Total                             38       47      64       21      24       61     236      734       63      63       -3      -4        6      106      62       l
Cash variation                    -6        S      -7      -16       2        4     -17      -63       0       20        0       0        7       27      27
Cash begin year                   -1       -7      -2       -9     -24      -22      -1       -3     -18      -18        2       2        2     -18      -18
Cash  nd year                     -7      -2       -9      -24     -22      -18     -18      -56     -18        2        2       2        9        9       9
D.bt coverage                    1.2    -0.1      0.9      0.9     0.7      0.7                      0.7      0.6      1.5     1.7      1.6
Yearly NICC                      -13      30    -118        14      12    -124                      -430    -200       127     127      106
Average NICO                     -10       43     -76       19      10    -139      -17             -307    -206       114     133      113      -22      S4
==  =  =  =  -                      
Rate of exchange: USS1=CFAF    320
AF1IE
20-Nov-89
DZ z
OQCz
0  -
19)g-4
X1



- 107 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Estimated Requirements for Technical Assistance
Component          Estimated Cost
(US$ Million)
PETROCI
1.   Completion of geological synthesis and
preparation of exploration promotion
package                                    . . . ..0.5
2.   Promotion of exploration acreage       j
3.   Staff training in exploration/production . . . . . . 0.1
SIR
4.   Assistance for technical studies on
loss reduction and fuel consumption
.  ..  ..  . 0.8
5.   Technical assistance to General
Management
EECI
6.   Assistance on technical audits and
improvement of operating efficiency  . . . . . . . . 2.0
7.   Study of EECI staffing requirements  . . . . . . . . 0.6
8.   Reorganization of accounting functions
and implementation of financial restructuring  . . . 1.5
9.    Inventory and evaluation of assets;
establishment of a new asset register  . . . . . . . 0.8



- 108 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 2
Government
10.  Environmental effect of Soubre hydroelectric
site and power project       . . . . . . .  . . . .  0.5
11.  Socio-economic study of rural electrification  . . . 0.2
12.  Study of extension of thermo-electric generating
capacity                     . . . . . . . . . . . 0.4
13.  Demand/supply study for Biomass  . . . . . . . . . . 0.6
14.  Assistance to the Office of Energy conservation  . . 0.8
Sub-Total  . . . . . . 8.8
Physical and price contingencies . . . . . . . . . . 1.2
TOTAL  . . . . . . . . $10.Om
Sources of Financing
African Development Bank      . . . . . . . . . . . 0.6
Japanese Grant Facility      . . . . . . . . . . . 4.4
Canadian International Development Agency (direct) . 1.0
Canadian International Development Agency (ESMA.?)  . 2.8
EECI                         a  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   1.2
TOTAL  . . . . . . . . $10Om
AF1ZE
Nvember 18, 12S



- 109 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
Section I:  Timetable of KeX Events
(a)    Time taken to Prepare the Operation           12 Months
(b)    Preparation Responsibility                    Government/Bank
(c)    Project Identification                        November, 1986
(d)    Bank Appraisal Mission                        February, 1988
(e)    Negotiations                                  July, 1989
(f)    Board Presentation                            December, 1989
(g)    Planned Date of Effectiveness                 January,  1990
Section II: Special Implementation Actions
Supervisory Boards appointed by Government to monitor
progress in the implementation of the adjustment program.
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Board Presentation
None
(b) Conditions of Effectiveness and First Tranche Release (US$ 30.0
million)
None except standard conditions.
(c) Conditions of Second Tranche Release (US$ 35.0 million)
(i)  The promotion campaign of exploration and development
of offshore hydrocarbon prospects has started;
(ii) A draft of the General Conditions of the public service
concession for the generation transmission and distribution
of electricity, and a draft of the first performance
contract between the Government and EECI have been
prepared;
(iii) A value-added tax component has been introduced in the
medium-voltage electricity tariff for industry;
(iv) The low-voltage residential tariff for lower-income house-
holdR has been reduced from FCFA 52.7 to FCFA 38.7 per
kilowatt-hour ,



- 110 -
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 2
(v) The third phase of the program for financial restructuring
of EECI has been completed.
(d) Conditions of Third Tranche Release (US$35.0 million)
(i) The reorganization of PETROCI and of the personnel
restructuring plan of SIR are underway;
(ii) A new system of petroleum product pricing and taxation has
been implemented;
(iii) The General Conditions of the public service concession for
the generation, transmission and distribution of
electricity, and the first performance contract between the
Government and EECI have been signed;
(iv) A system of budgeting, approval and payment of bills for
electricity consumption of the public sector has been im-
plemented;
(v) A ten-year program of EECI's investments in generation and
transmission facilities has been prepared.
AF1IE
November 18, 1989



- ill -
ANNEX X
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Sector Documents
-    Declaration de Politique Energetique (June 1988 - Original
French Virsion)
-    Plan t'Action (July 10, 1989 - Original French Version)
-    National Energy Plan - Terms of Reference
-    AfDB Mid-Term Appraisal Report (March 1989)
B. Hydrocarbons Subsector
-    Financial Statements FY1987188:  PETROCI
SIR
SMB
GESTOCI
-    Developpement du Potentiel Gazier Offshore (Gaz Metro
International/Lavalin International - September 1986)
-    PETROCI Reorganization Plan (September 1989)
-    Ex-refinery Price developments (March 1988 - September
1989)
-    SIR Three-Year Budget/Plan (May 3, 1988)
-    SIR Budget/Plan (Update - September 1989)
-    SIR Humain Ressource Plan (September 1989)
C. Electricity Subsector
-    EECI Audit Report FY1987 (Coopers & Lybrand - January 1988)
-    EECI Audit Report FY1988 (Helios - October 1989)
-    EECI Board Financial Statements (March 31, 1988; November
1988)



- 112 -
ANNEX X
Page 2 of 2
EECI Activity Reports (Coopers & Lybrand - May 1988, August
1988, November 1988, February 1989, May 1989, October 1989)
EECI Etude de Diagnostic (Arthur D. Little/Electrowatt
Engineering Services - February 1967)
Mise a Jour de la Planification des Moyens de Production et
de Transport de 1'EECI (Kaiser Engineers and Constructors -
July 1987)
Analyse du Programme d'Investissements de l'EECI
(Consortium SNC-Dessau - November 1987)
Etude du Cadre Institutionnel de l'EECI (Arthur D.
Little/EdF Internationale - March 1988)
Choix de Strategies de Developpement du Parc de Production
(EECI - August 1989)
Plan de Redressement de 1'EECI (June 1988)
Plan de Restructuration Financiere de 1'EECI (June 1988)
Mise a Jour des Previsions Financieres (June 1989)
EECI financial forecasts (IBRD Computer Printouts - 1989)
AF1IE
November 18, 1989



| __M A L I _______        U R K I N A _ __                                                              6 __                                                                              4-                                                 IBRD 18305R2
N    AA IuP   A L' I
FASO                                                                                          COTE D' IVO I RE 
< K y, KD-hoxO i'>f-'                                            PETROLEUM  EXPLORATION  AND  DEVELOPMENT PERMITS                                                                                                 /
-u  (   7'                                                 Explorat-on Permits PETROCI (100%)
zc;>   q- ¢'i  I I  V' I        I   1                                                                    Development Permits C.E.P 1, C E.P 2, A PE. 2, APE 3 ESSO (3825%) ESSO AG(25.50%)
C .,                                                                                                                                                        SHELL(21.25X) PETROCI (15%) 
Oji                      BOou4           JDALOA                                                          Exploration Permits A, B, BI, CI  PHILLIPS (5750%) AGIP(2250%) SEDCO(l0%) PETROCI (10%)                           j
@   oMo,          ° '°          IO        ,ODuekoue                                              De,elopment Permits Ports of Blocks A,B,Cl                                                              ABENGOUROU
Exploration Permits El, Ml. AGIP(90%) PETROCI(10%) 
0 °Doko v                 D                                                               Exploration Permit Al AGIP 90%) PETROCI(10#)
_>) Z                                                          Explorot.on Permti DI AGIP138.125%) UNION TEXAS(31.875%) TOTAL(15%) PETROCt(15%I/)
zt \.       \ D                                       O                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Exploration Pe,.it: Kl TENNECO(85%) PETROCI(15%)*I
'ISSIA                 Wells
taYS   1                   ABIDJA-N,                                                               *    Oil                                            Isoboths, In meters
_        Siisixi,dlo0                                                                             4    Gas                                             Rivers
+    Oil, non-commercial                      ®    National Copitol
*4:  Gas, non-commerciol           o                Selected Towns                                                                             Z
+ -   Dry                                    ---  International Boundaries                   QADZOPE
-6-         ~                                                                                       o    Proposed or Under Constroction                                                                                                            >     6'
Tiossale0                         0AGBOVILLE
{                                 0Soubr6                      LAKOTA0                DIVO
\                                       OG~~~~~~~~~~ueyo                                                                                                               *
L  I B  E  R  I  ASi
ABOISSOo            
ABIDJAN 
C Fresco        444tind Loho4  +4 jAC+:~                               -tGRAND BASSAM
.o-                 ~~~~~JACQUEVILL                      -       +         4       
0Fresco  " 'GVnd Lokou.    *                             +t   + + 
¢                                            Fresco          qS   t  +* 4°+ **-t                                +  v@2p +            ZF            <t    40+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  5~
10                                                            %ASSANDRA                            4                                                                 +  *
Son-Pedro.
?          Grand B6rnby.
Tabou0
, 1
4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
0      20    40      60    tO       00
KILOMETERS
B'                                       7                                        6'                                       5-                                       4'
OCTOBER 1989



IBRD 18562R
r      r                           70                          0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6      50                          40                           30
COTEIDIVOIRE                                                          MALI J_                                                                                  ,If
COTE1D'IVOIRE 0 ° .                                                                         PTengreao                                                           BURKINA FASO
POWER SYSTEM                                     \ 2 Ti.nka.                                  K >                      'B
EXISTING         FUTURE                                                     F                                                                 VM-ninion)
EXISTrANr         FUTLuRngolodou
33kV LINES         Z     )    Somotiguilo                                                      Oungolodougouhin
InGNES n&kV       -          61ba       /1        ,          Mo'nn                        '
LMGNES 40kV             \ >%,                   5O-       ND                      i           §            4FERKESSEDOUGORKE S
-                 ~~~~~~220kV LINES                    a ediiou                 BONDA4'r
IUGNES 220kv                            I                                        tKORNOGO                  ?
m            fl~~~1_    DAMS          0            )            \                                                  LNOPib0oldua
BA RRAGES                                                                                                                                                                   e \S ,r osso  /   *Bouna  
F%'IEUVE                            B ko                                                      
-90  TO THERMAL DIESEL STATIONS                            )               \          o,a.d.                 /Dikodoug9oA                    ----- T0i       9Oa
CENTRALES DIESEL                                              Qai                                                                0Kn
STEAM POWER PLANTS                 Borotou                                      ITfidKn
CENTRALE THERM4IGUE VAPEUR  .             Q        Djibrosso                                   \o|
C g  HYDRO STATION                      0.            \        O             ,  'I     Dionro        \I
CENTRALE HYDRAUlOUE                    Kao                                                Niakromandougod
HYDRAULIQUE~~~~~~~~~~Kai                                     boASA  lakOONCdCban
.S/                         Kant-is'  /  \   Xni4  -    OsSorkol\ ,                            Dabokolo
T OWNS AND VILLAGES   ~            N~T         UBA            \9Wamf IaTV4nLES                              Bd Kg/ala             ` 
VlES ST VILLAGES                     O     A       /ninbe Oiol\ 
FRONTIER        NATIO NAL ES BO UNDlAR IE                                             Mankono
sRONoIERES INTERNATI ONAL                                                                                                                                Sobau            BONDOUKOU
DANANEamma '\    A                                                                                            Sond.g/
* i,IIou                                                                                                                Jo                                  S
a    --Id4F^c~>   aBinhouy6   Bangolkara    4oIo         ---- f   DirohuO    \> tomulsukr            X             A8eoak;r okoura
J                                         Minc~~~~~~~~~~~~~3Asuli  Eo                                                            Tond
r.  rme-ns            ,r;*    <     BTaNKb   OUMA    ou                                                                      Oy%-- I/Zeb,rt\        A      E     G      U     O
0    50          100          ISrO °\td%NI                     Obn te                                                                                                  Prikm      Ko In-Hoo
I                 I                                           MAN'        Fokobli                     Zu6noul                                                    Mlohiakro             Koun-FC_4
KILOMETERS 1K                                                                                                                                                                   I
70  TOn 0000 08* bOO 000e0.d bLgoy                                       Ib-                              KG                                                                           rom
Zouon-Hourden                               DALOA             BOLAF                                                a      (17
o.dti node .oohoo* '~ -         Binkay6          ogl                                         Diacoho o6               Ymauaeoukro
o0ok       Th.Ot000'                                                                                                                                                   Brad-y /A o     ima       -/
d   000FO|> Tahibl;
Coooo.boo Toe dtOnflbOflS  1/  Ski/nfr. o
00t-COOOOTIOIT 00 ~ jTauleplo-.~0BIoIquin 
LIBERIA                0<               -      //  g~~~~~~~~~~~~sig    DoukauyaChok 
-                                                                   BUTO ~~~~~ADiegonf                          JAB
RESEAU  H.T. ZONE  D'ABIOJAN                         -60                                                               ta.dDbat                        ARVJL                   N                'K/o                 6
Agb-vIIn             Ayame 1                         N                                /                                                                          MaDlaraglAcOVIsaEKeI /ss
TAABflO  ~~~~~          E-, Of9 220                                                                                     NdOusa  'blobl
I ~~~~~%ASA5~~~~~~~ANDM~~AS
ad   7                       (                 --~        Son P  ro                                                                                                From
liobo  Rwr ,                                                                                              4h3
FEBRUARY 1987



