Documen tof
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
RePOrt No. 11532
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3150-IVC)
JANUARY 4, 1993
Energy and Industry Division
Country Department I
Africa Regional Office
This document his a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



ABBREVTATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         African Development Bank
CAA          Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE         Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French Economic Cooperation Fund)
CFAF         Franc de la Communaute Financibre Africaine (Franc of the African Financial
Community)
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
DCGTx        Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux (Office for supervision and control of
public works)
EECI         Energie Electrique de la C6te d'lvoire (Electric Utility Company of C6te d'Ivoire)
EIB          European Investment Bank
ESAL         Energy Sector Adjustment Loan
ESMAP        Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GESTOCI    Societe de Gestion des Stocks P6troliers de C6te d'Ivoire (State Petroleum Product
Storage Company)
GNP          Gross National Product
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
MYRA         Multi-Year Rescheduling Agreement
PETROCI    Societe Nationale d'Operations Petrolieres (State Petroleum Exploration and
Production Company)
PNE          Plan National de l'Energie (National Energy Plan)
SDR          Special Drawing Right
SIR          Soci&t6 Ivoirenne de Rafrinage (Refining Company of C6te d'Ivoire)
VAT          Value Added Tax
FISCAL YEAR
Government:                January I - December 31
Energy Sector Enterprises:    October I - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operatious Evaluation
January 4, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Cote d'Ivoire
Energy Sector Adlustment Loan (Loan 3150-IVC)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on Cote d'Ivoire - Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 3150-IVC)" prepared by the
Africa Regional Office.  The Borrower did not contribute to the report.  It
presents a satisfactory overview of project achievements.
Critical covenants for tranche release were waived, including the
financial restructuring of EECI and of pricing reforms for power and petroleum
products. These covenants, reintroduced in a recently approved SECAL, have yet
to be implemented.
In the Petroleum Sector, the legal and contractual framework for
private sector exploration and production was restructured and a number of
investors have been induced to make investments.  However, issues related to
petroleum product pricing, the role of a "strategic fuel inventory" and the
disposition of excessive storage facilities have yet to be resolved.
In the Electricity Sector the Government improved sector performance
by leasing day-to-day operation of the State power company's (EECI) assets to the
private sector. A ten-year sector investment plan was submitted and approved by
the Bank, but the institutional arrangements for implementing it have yet to be
resolved.
On balance, the project is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability
as likely and its institutional impact as partial.
Follow-up will be needed to redefine the role of EECI and to create
an adequate regulatory framework that will efficiently support private sector
involvement in the power sector. In addition, financial questions raised by the
financial audit of project accounts, about which the PCR was uninformative, will
need to be resolved. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without World Bank authorization.1






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMLTION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3150-IVC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                                     1
A. PROJECT IDENTITY                                                             1
B. BACKGROUND                                                                  I
-Macroeconomic Survey                                                       1
-Sectoral Context                                                           2
-Petroleum                                                                  2
-Power                                                                      3
-Energy Sector Institutional Organization                                   3
-Previous Bank involvement in the Energy Sector                             4
C. LOAN OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION                                             4
-Hydrocarbon Subsector                                                      5
a. Institutional Framework                                              5
b. Resource Development                                                 5
c. Operational Efficiency and Financial Management                      5
d. Petroleum Product Price-setting system                               5
-Electricity Subsector                                                      5
a. Institutional measures                                               5
b. Rationalization of the investment program                            5
c. Measures to improve operational efficiency                           6
D. IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE                                                  6
-Second Tranche Release                                                     6
-Third Tranche Release                                                      7
-Current Status of Waived Conditions for Tranche Release                    8
-Electricity Subsector                                                   8
-Petroleum Subsector                                                     8
-ESAL Conditionality and Future of the Energy Sector in Cote d'lvoire       8
-GESTOCI                                                                    9
-PETROCI                                                                    9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
E. PROJECT RESULTS                                                               10
-Petroleum Subsector                                                          10
-Upstream                                                                 10
-Downstream: Petroleum Product Prices                                     11
-GESTOCI                                                                      11
-Electricity Subsector                                                        11
-Sustainability                                                               12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                                 13
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans                                                                   14
B. Cumulative Loan Disbursements (US$ million)                                          15
C. Mission Data                                                                         15
D. Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle in Staff Weeks                                16
E. Project Results - Tranche Release                                                    17
F. Status of Legal Covenants                                                            18



- j -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3150-IVC)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report for the First Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL)
to C6te d'lvoire (Loan 3150-IVC) in the amount of US$100 million, which was signed on December
27, 1989. The Loan Closing Date was June 30, 1991. The last disbursement was effected on March
18,1991.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Energy and Industry Divisions of the Africa Technical
Department and the Occidental and Central Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I and 1ll). At the time this report was issued, the Borrower had not yet submitted Part 11.
The PCR was initiated in May 1992, and is based, inter alia, on the President's Report; the
Loan Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; interviews
with country team and supervisory mission members; and internal Bank memoranda.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTHENT LOAN
(LOAN 3150-IVC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.     The Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL) aimed at providing support for the
implementation of a comprehensive medium and long term policy framework for the energy sector, as
well as setting the stage for sectoral reforms required under the country's stabilization program,
which was supported by the Bank through this and two other sector adjustment loans. The program
was targeted at: (a) rationalizing the structure of the sector; (b) removing distortions, particularly in
prices and tariffs; (c) rehabilitating key institutions; and (d) reviving foreign investor interest in the
sector.
2.     The Loan program was consequently designed to support reforms such as: (a) organizational
and financial restructuring of the electricity utility Energie Electrique de la Cote d'Ivoire (EECI) with
a view to improving its internal efficiency and its capacity for self financing; (b) redefinition of the
state petroleum company PETROCI's role consistent with hydrocarbon development prospects; (c)
adoption of a long-term investment program in the energy sector; (d) implementation of revised
electricity tariffs and petroleum product pricing policy; and (e) improvement in the incentive
framework for hydrocarbon exploration.
Imolementation Experience
3.     The project was organized in three tranches. Conditions were appropriately designed to
reflect the stated objectives of the ESAL at the time of negotiations. The Government, however,
requested (and the Bank accepted) that a number of conditions (such as the implementation of the
third phase of the program of financial restructuring of EECI, and the introduction of a new
petroleum pricing system) be modified or waived. Government's commitments regarding waived
conditions were in some cases not fully met, particularly as concerns petroleum product pricing.
Project Results
4.     Although the majority of the progam's objectives were attained, results were nonetheless
mixed both in the petroleum and the power subsectors.
Petroleum
5.     On the successful side, private investments were introduced into the subsector through: (a) the
success of a petroleum exploration campaign; and (b) the current negotiations aimed at developing the
Foxtrot gas field. Furthermore, PETROCI was restructured according to the ESAL objectives.
However, the following objectives were not (or were only partially) met: progress in



- iii -
restructuring GESTOCI has been superficial; and while subsidies have been eliminated from the
petroleum price structure and taxation rationalized, full linkage of the retail price to the international
market price of petroleum products was not achieved.
Power
6.     The creation of Compagnie Ivorienne d'Electricite (CIE), a private Ivorian company operating
under a leasing arrangement with the Government, has resulted in vastly improved management of the
electricity utility and reliability of electricity supply. However, the regulatory framework under
which CIE functions, remains ambiguous. The former utility Energie Electrique de Cote d'lvoire
(EECI), which no longer manages the day-to-day operations of the sector, continues to be overstaffed
and inefficient, and its precise role in the sector unclear.
Findings and Lessons Learnt
7.     Important progress was made under two of the four main foci of the ESAL: promotion of
petroleum exploration and production, and electricity generation and distribution management. On
the other two conditions (petroleum product pricing; rationalization of the product distribution
system), the results are much less encouraging, as conditions in these areas were waived and,
although since included as part of the conditionality of recently approved SECALs, have yet to be
fully implemented.
8.     At the time of the loan, the main issue was the deteriorating financial situation of the power
sector. The Financial Restructuring Plan presented by the Government in June 1990 consisted of
projections rather than concrete commitments; as a matter of fact, the reform subsequently undertaken
by Government in the subsector went substantially beyond its initial plan, involving the privatization
of the sector through the creation of CIE. The financial situation of the sector is now strong enough
for the CIE to envisage going public on the Abidjan stock exchange. As one of the consequences of
this reform, EECI is becoming increasingly irrelevant, and the Government has indicated its resolve
to keep it marginalized. Closer attention to EECI's parlous condition during the design of the loan
would probably have improved the impact of the operation.
9.     With the advent of CIE, operating performance in the electricity subsector has increased
markedly. However, the lease payment transferred by CIE to the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
(CAA) is being used to settle past arrears built up by EECI and for Government's budgetary
requirements, and may not be available for future investment as intended. Future Bank operations
should address this issue. Also, the reorganized electricity sector, while functioning much better than
before, lacks a regulatory agency which can monitor the activities of the private concessionaire
company. Regulatory issues might have been foreseen at the time the loan was designed, and ought
to be included in future Bank or IDA operations in the sector.
10.   In the petroleum subsector the project was quite successful in restructuring the legal and
contractual framework for private sector petroleum exploration and production, as well as in attracting
investors into the subsector both for development of an existing gas field and for exploration for new
resources.



- iv -
11.    The problems discussed above relating to the introduction of a market-linked system for
setting petroleum product price ceilings and, to a certain degree, the problems arising from the lack
of progress in rationalizing the product storage and distribution sector, point to the weakening effect
waivers may have on the substance of the operation. In these two cases waivers were granted for the
relevant tranche conditions on the basis of commitments made by Government to undertake the
actions at a later date. It has subsequently proved to be extremely difficult to achieve concrete
performance in these areas, and more recent SECALs have had to repeat this conditionality to try to
obtain progress on these issues.
12.    For these reasons, it can be considered that the ESAL objectives were only partly achieved.
Initial conditions for tranche release should probably have been maintained, despite any delays that
might have ensued. This would, in all likelihood, have enhanced the contribution of the operation to
the adjustment of the Ivorian economy.



%f                        ~~~~~~~~~~~. l



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3150-IVC)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
Name:         Energy Structural Adjustment Loan (ESAL)
Loan Number: 3150 IVC
RVP Unit:    AFR
Country       Cote d'lvoire
Sector:       Energy
B. BACKGROUND
Macroeconomic Survey
1.    After a long period of sustained growth and external and internal stability, the economy of
Cote d'Ivoire is now in a state of crisis triggered by the sharp decline in the terms of trade since
1986. Real GDP has declined by more than a quarter since 1986. The fiscal and balance of
payments current account deficits reached very high levels (respectively 16 percent and 11 percent of
GDP in 1989). External and internal debt reached an unsustainable 125 percent of GDP and 37
percent respectively at year-end 1990.
2.     Faced with this situation, the Government launched an adjustment program in mid-1989
consisting of two phases: a stabilization phase, aiming at restoring control over its finances by the end
of 1990, and a second phase aiming at restoring sutainable growth, international competitiveness, and
ultimately the country's creditworthiness. As explained below, the sectoral adjustment operation that
is the subject of this report was designed as part of the Bank's support for the stabilization phase of
this program.
3.    The stabilization phase was supported by a 18-month IMF stand-by arrangement, approved in
November 1989, and by three World Bank financed SECALs in the agriculture, energy and water
supply and sanitation sectors, approved between October 1989 and June 1990. The main objective of
the stabilization program was to reduce the fiscal deficit and to start clearing up domestic and external
arrears while carrying out structural reforms in the sectors covered by the three SECAL operations.
The three sectoral adjustment operations aimed at increasing the overall efficiency of the relevant
sectors, and they also aimed at contributing, indirectly, to an improvement of the economy's overall
competitiveness by reducing the cost of such important inputs as energy and water.
4.     Substantial progress has been achieved in implementing the structural reforms and reducing
the fiscal deficit: The primary budget deficit was reduced from 7.6 percent of GDP in 1989 to 2.1
percent of GDP in 1990. The agricultural reforms supported by Agricultural Sectoral Adjustment
Loan played a major role in this achievement by reducing substantially the deficit of the Cocoa and
Coffee Price Stabilization Fund in 1990. However, the stabilization program did not achieve all its
objectives, in particular those related to the reduction of domestic and external arrears. This failure
precluded the disbursement of the last tranche of the IMF program in December 1990. In September
1991, the IMF approved a new stand-by arrangement to support a revised program for 1991-92.



-2-
5.    In August 1991, the Government adopted the second phase of the program, known as the
Medium Term Framework for Financial and Economic Policies (MTF). The MTF sets forth an
important program of structural reforms aiming at restoring the competitiveness of the Ivorian
economy and thereby returning it to a path of sustainable growth. The objective is to reach a
sustainable growth rate of 5 percent per year by 1995. The Government's program contains specific
policy actions in several key areas: public finance, monetary and credit policies, external
competitiveness, promotion of internal competition, restructuring of the financial sector, human
resources development, and management of public sector resources. In addition, the program
continues the major reforms in the agriculture and the energy sectors supported by the earlier
SECALs. Three additional SECALs were approved by the Bank between October and December
1991 in support of the Government's MTF, whose timely implementation is a prerequisite to the
resumption of growth in the next few years and to creditworthiness.
Sectoral Context
6.     Strong economic growth until 1982 induced rapidly rising energy demand. During the period
1972-1982 end-use of petroleum products and electricity rose by 8% a year. By 1982, total end-use
had reached 300 kgoe. Imports of energy amounts to 20% of total merchandise imports in gross
terms. After 1982, and the beginning of the financial crisis, demand for light petroleum products
stagnated and growth of demand for power decreased to 3%. Nonetheless, the energy sector
continues to play a pivotal role in the Cote d'lvoire economy and in the process of adjustment.
Petroleum
7.     Offshore oil was first discovered in 1974 (Belier field), and then in 1979 (Espoir). Early
expectations were disappointed, however. Due to technical development issues, and financial
difficulties of the contractor, Espoir was shut down in 1988 after about one half of total recoverable
reserves had been produced. The Belier field became subeconomic in 1990 and was shut down. An
oil/gas offshore field complex was discovered in the east of the country (Foxtrot). The foreign
operators of the gas field did not consider that its development would contribute significantly to the
company's overall production, and abandoned the concession at the end of 1988. Development of the
field would, however, provide a marked boost to the availability of domestic energy in the country.
8.     Until recently, exploration was hampered by a contractual framework which failed to provide
appropriate incentives to the oil industry to invest risk capital for the exploration of Cote d'lvoire
sedimentary basins. A revised contractual framework for oil and gas exploration and production was
prepared in 1989-1990 within the framework of the ESAL, and constituted a major improvement over
past legislation, thus paving the way for a petroleum exploration promotional campaign, also carried
out under this operation.
9.     The Ivorian refinery (Societe Ivoirienne de Raffinage - SIR) is a limited liability company
created in 1962 of which the principal shareholders are PETROCI (47,2%), seven international
companies (37.1 %), and the Government of Burkina Faso (10%). The refinery (annual capacity: 3
millions ton/year) supplies the domestic market and neighboring Mali and Burkina Fasso. Despite
progress made in the 1980s, there were still managerial and operational deficiencies at the time of the
loan.
10.   GESTOCI is a limited liability company formed in 1970 to provide and manage a strategic
petroleum products reserve equivalent to 60 days' supply. The company's storage capacity equals



- 3 -
320,000 m3 in Abidjan and 100,000 m3 elsewhere. in the country. The stock is held by PETROCI
and in equal proportions by seven petroleum product distribution companies. The government's veto
power, however, effectively places the company under state control.
11.   Petroleum product distribution is the responsibility of seven private sector companies, which
manage over 400 sales outlets. Retail prices include taxation, which increases ex-refinery prices by a
factor of 2.5 (except for heavy fuel oil for power generation). Retail prices are rigidly controlled,
and the absolute level of petroleum prices imposes a significant burden on end-users in the productive
sector of the economy.
Power
12.   In the electricity sector, the total dependable hydro-thermal system capacity of 700 MW and
3000 GWh compares to a 1988 load demand of 350 MW and 2300 GWh. The existing generation
facilities, if managed correctly, would be able to satisfy demand until about 1996. However, fuel
costs will increase rapidly, as load growth must be met by existing thermal plants that are
approaching the end of their service life. The distribution network covers most of the national
territory and provides power to about half of the population.
13.    Electricity tariffs are also high. The main issue is the absence of a tariff policy based on an
updated investment program and linked to the sector's standards of performance, rather than on an
arbitrary index formula. Other factors affecting tariffs include: (a) institutional shortcomings
stemming largely from the concession system (see paragraph 15 below); (b) disappointing return
from EECI's past investments; and (c) low operating efficiency.
Energy Sector Institutional Organization
14.   The hydrocarbon subsector falls under the responsibility of the Hydrocarbon Directorate,
within the Ministry of Mines. The national oil company PETROCI (created in 1975) serves: (a) as a
vehicle for the Government to participate in joint ventures with oil companies for oil and gas
exploration and production; and (b) as a holding company for Government's participation in other
petroleum ventures such as the refinery. PETROCI is also in charge of formulating and applying
Government policy in petroleum exploration and development.
15.    At the time of the loan, the electricity subsector was the responsibility of the Directorate of
Energy and Infrastructure within the Ministry of Industry and Plan (now within the Ministry of Mines
and Energy). The government holds a monopoly for electricity transmission and distribution, and had
at the time of the loan entrusted this monopoly to the public sector power company, EECI, under a
concession system. Under the ESAL, electricity operations were delegated to CIE. While generally
well conceived, the new concession system does contain certain ambiguities (such as the sharing of
responsibility for investments between Government and the utility). The system has led to satisfactory
operation on a day-to-day basis but in weak and incoordinated planning. Electricity generation is
excluded from the Government monopoly to allow for self-generation by other public or private
entities, and in fact a new electricity generating plant is planned by the private sector, based on
natural gas contained in the Foxtrot offshore field. The electricity would be sold to CIE.
16.    At the time of the loan, the two main energy enterprises suffered from weak management.
PETROCI overall management was poor and its technical expertise deficient, particularly in its core
business area of petroleum exploration and production. EECI was notably deficient in financial



- 4 -
management and administration. Management failings resulted in: (a) foregone fiscal revenues for the
Government; (b) high financial losses from Government participation to oil production activities; and
(c) loss of petroleum reserves.
17.    At the Government level, there were serious deficiencies in formulation of coherent sector-
wide policy, planning in each of the subsectors, rationalization of investment programs, and
formulation of least cost development plans. The civil service lacked adequate staff to work on
energy policy formulation. Weak capabilities in the ministries also impaired the supervision of
parastatal energy enterprises.
Previous Bank Involvement in the Energv Sector
18.   In early 1986 as part of SAL III, the Government adopted a first set of measures aimed at a
reform of energy policies over the medium term. This initial program included three priority areas:
(a) an interim investment program compatible with the country's economic and financial constraints
within the framework of the Public Investment Program; (b) measures to improve the institutional
coordination of the sector and the efficiency of sector enterprises; and (c) measures to address the
energy pricing issue, with an initial focus on ex-refinery prices of petroleum products. While these
measures went some way toward identifying initial issues in the sector, they were inadequate in terms
of subtantive policy content.
19.    As part of the preparation of the ESAL, the Government moved towards the integration and
deepening of its reforms within a more coherent framework. In its Statement of Energy Policy dated
June 1988, the Government set forth the following objectives:
(a) clarifying institutional relationships among energy enterprise and their supervisory ministries,
as well as developing mechanisms for sector-wide coordination;
(b) improving resource development and investment planning, including mobilization of private
sector finance;
(c) increasing the efficiency and financial management of energy enterprises; and
(d) improving the use and allocation of resources in the energy sector as well as in the economy
as a whole through further rationalization of pricing, including selective energy price
reductions to enhance the competitive position of the productive sectors.
20.    Based on the foregoing objectives, the Government formulated an Action Plan which
contained a detailed list of measures, and specific dates for their implementation. Progress on the
Action Plan was monitored during the project implementation through specific conditions for tranche
release of the ESAL.
C. LOAN OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
21.    Through the ESAL, the Bank proposed to provide support to the implementation of the Action
Plan defined in paragraph 19 and 20 above. This support included following actions:



-5-
Hydrocarbon Subsector
(a) Institutional Framework: in June 1988, a restructuring plan of PETROCI was drawn up and
its implementation started in 1989. Progress in the implementation of the plan was set as a
condition for the release of the third tranche of the ESAL. The plan comprised: (i)
strengthening of the Exploration/Production Division; (ii) eliminating PETROCI's remaining
activities in products trading, with a consequent reduction of its staff; and (iii) implementing a
retraining program to minimize the social cost of restructuring. In line with the PETROCI's
new focus, the Hydrocarbon Directorate of the Ministry of Mines would henceforth assure the
supervisory function in the petroleum subsector;
(b) Resource Development: Following the enactment of a revised petroleum legislation and model
contract, the Government launched a petroleum exploration promotional campaign. A
consulting firm was retained to prepare the promotional package before the end of February
1990. This promotion was to be monitored as a condition for release of the second tranche of
the ESAL. An acceptable arrangement will be sought with one or more private partners to
develop the Foxtrot gas field, which could provide domestic energy supply to replace diesel
for power generation or fuelwood for household use;
(c) Operational Efficiency and Financial Manazement: The reform program of SIR that began
under SAL III was extended to improve the operational efficiency of the refinery. Continued
progress in the implementation of this restructuration was a condition for the release of the
third tranche of the ESAL. GESTOCI would help achieve greater efficiency of energy supply
and would improve its own financial performance by adopting a more aggressive commercial
strategy, i.e. by actively seeking to rent out its surplus storage capacity (no condition for a
tranche release was attached to this component). The efficiency of distribution would be
improved through rationalization by mergers of supply operations amongst the private sector
distribution companies; and
(d) Petroleum Product Price-setting system: The current system of price regulation and taxation
was not only antiquated but also ill-suited to adjustment for changes in cost-determining
factors. It masked the effect of cost subsidies not only within the sector but also between the
hydrocarbon sector and other sectors. The ESAL aimed at: (i) establishing a greater
transparency in pricing policy; (ii) instituting incentives for increased productivity; (iii)
maintaining an appropriate tax system; (iv) eliminating implicit subsidies; and (v) obtaining
gains in productivity to be reflected in prices to the consumer.
Electricity Subsector
22.   In the electricity subsector, the action program contained the following measures:
(a) Institutional measures: (i) reorganization of EECI; and (ii) the signature of an EECI
performance contract;
(b) Rationalization of the investment program: (i) completion of a revised short term construction
program; (ii) decision on the next major investment in the power generation facilities: and (iii)
preparation of a 10-year investment program; and



-6 -
(c) Measures to improve operational efficiencY: li) implementation of EECI's loss-reduction
program; (ii) implementation of the utility's program for technical assistance: and (iii)
completion of EECI's financial restructuring.
23.    Cofinancing was obtained from: (a) the African Development Bank, for an amount of US$100
million; and (b) the European Investment Bank, for an amount of about US$30 million. Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) also prepared a specific operation for the electricity
subsector that, while not formally a part of this operation, supported many of the measures related to
the financial restructuring of EECI.
D. IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE
24.   The loan was signed on December 27, 1989, and became effective on December 28, 1989.
Project implementation was organized in three tranches, with a set of conditions for the release of
each successive tranche. The amount of the first tranche was US$30 million, and the following
tranches amounted to US$35 million each. Release of the first tranche of US $30 million was not
contingent on other than standard conditions and was disbursed immediately. The key provisions of
the Loan Agreement concern the release of the second and third tranches, and these are described in
detail below.
Second Tranche Release
25.    The second tranche of US$35.0 million was disbursed in September 1990, two months later
than scheduled. The delay was caused by two of the conditions for second tranche release not being
met on schedule, namely conditions (d) and (e) as listed below.
26.   The release of the second tranche was subject to compliance with the following:
(a) initiation of the offshore petroleum exploration campaign: this condition was met with: (i) the
revision of the Model Contract for Petroleum Exploration and Production (April 1990); and
(ii) the organization of a promotion seminar held in June 1990;
(b) preparation of draft General Conditions for the public service concession agreement for the
generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, and a draft of the first periodic
performance contract between the Government and EECI; this condition was met on schedule;
(c) introduction of Value-Added Tax in the medium-voltage electricity tariff for industry: the
corresponding law was published on May 1990;
(d) reduction of the low-voltage residential tariff for lower-income households from CFAF 52.7
to CFAF 38.7 per kilowatt-hour: this condition was not met on schedule, and the Government
requested a waiver of this covenant for third tranche release, owing to the ongoing negotiation
with a potential private sector investor and given its commitment to undertake a study of the
tariff and to implement its findings. The Bank agreed with Government's request. A
reduction in the low-voltage electricity tariff of a comparable magnitude was subsequently
implemented by the Government prior to the start of the tariff study; and
(e) implementation of the third phase of the program for financial restructuring of EECI: this
condition was not fulfilled as expected, and the Bank agreed to the requested waiver of this



- 7 -
condition, which was based on the Government's signature of a Protocole d'Accord for the
privatization of the management of EECI as described in the p'ragraph 29 below. The
financial condition of EECI was recognized to be unsatisfactorily and deteriorating.
Third Tranche Release
27.    The third and final tranche, of US$35 million, was subject to four conditions:
(a) reorganization of PETROCI and the personnel restructuring plan for SIR: this condition was
met by October 1990;
(b) implementation of a new system for petroleum product pricing, including: (i) automatic
evolution of retailed prices to reflect the world market price of petroleum; and (ii) removing
of inter-fuel distorsions and elimination of earmarked levies. On the basis of assurances
received from the Minister of Finance whereby the new price structure would be reflected in
the 1991 budget law, to be voted by the Parliament in April/May 1991, a waiver of this
condition was granted, clearing the way for third tranche release;
(c) signature of the General Conditions for the public service concession agreement for the
generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, and a execution of the first periodic
performance contract between the Government and EECI: this condition was fulfilled. A
concession agreement was signed with private investors to take over the electricity sector
management as CIE (paragraph 29 above);
(d) implementation of a system for budgeting, approval and payment of bills for electricity
consumption by the public sector: this condition was satisfied through inclusion of projected
electricity consumption in the annual budget law. One-twelfth of the budgeted amount is paid
to CIE each month, with certification of bills and reconciliation of actual versus budgeted
consumption taking place at the end of each year; and
(e) preparation of a ten-year plan for EECI's investments in generation and transmission facilities:
this plan was submitted to, and approved by, the Bank. This is now a component of the
"Plan National de l'Energie", and sensitivity studies of this investment program are being
carried out at the present time.
28.    The third tranche was released in February 1991, after a delay due to the issues regarding the
implementation of a new system for retail pricing of petroleum products, as discussed in paragraph
27(b) above.
29.    One important achievement of relevance to the ESAL, was the privatization of management of
electricity production, transport and distribution in Cote d'lvoire, in accordance with a Protocole
d'Accord signed between the Government and a consortium of international power and construction
companies operating as Compagnie Ivoirienne d'Electricite (CIE). This process was to be completed
by October 1, 1990; the structure of the arrangement is further discussed in paragraph 43 below.
Certain of the conditions included in the Action Plan and in the tranche release conditions were
effectively satisfied by the privatization of EECI management, which even went further than the strict
terms of the various policy agreements between the Government and the Bank. However, EECI,
recast as a holding company owning the sectoral assets as state "patrimoine" and leasing them to the
private sector management company CIE, remains by all accounts unsatisfactory. A financial audit



-8-
was completed for the end of FY90 exercise, which set the level of equity at negative CFAF138
billion (about US$500 million), and operating losses for the fiscal year ending October 1990 at
CFAF66 billion (about US$240 million). In spite of legal agreements, the regulatory environment of
the Sector remains ambiguous and ineffective and finally, one half of the funds collected by the CIE
which are paid to the "Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement"--about CFAF/kWh 17 out of 44 which is
the average tariff--are effectively being siphoned out of the power sector and are not available for
reinvestment in the sector. This issue should be addressed under any future Bank/IDA operation to
improve the energy institutional framework.
Current Status of Waived Conditions for Tranche Release
Electricity Subsector
30.    Despite the reduction in household tariffs (see paragraph 26.[d]), the Government has
recognized that both the level and structure of tariffs required rationalization as the present system
dates from 1984 and was based on an investment program very different from the one drawn up
recently. It was therefore decided to proceed with a general tariff study and implement the findings
of the study by the end of 1991 in consultation with the Bank. At the present time, however, the
study is not yet complete, but remains an essential part of energy sector planning and analysis and
will be addressed in future operations as a matter of priority.
Petroleum Subsector
31.    Petroleum Product Prices. The Government included the revised petroleum product price
structure in the budget law in May 1991 (see paragraph 41 below). On one hand, the earmarked
parafiscal levies previously causing distortions and interfering with the resource mobilization aspect of
product fiscality have now been replaced by a unified tax which is paid directly to the Treasury,
thereby rationalizing the fiscal aspect of the pricing system. On the other hand, as of the date of this
Report, the price at the pump for the various fuels concerned had not varied and it must be concluded
that the second part of the improvement of produict pricing (i.e. the evolution of retail prices to reflect
the world market price of petroleum) was not achieved.
ESAL Conditionality and Futire of the Energv Sector in Cote d'lvoire
32.    As the preceding discussion shows, most of the actual conditionality of the ESAL has been
satisfied. In one case, the privatization of the electricity sector management through the creation of
CIE, has been accomplished to a degree and with a level of success probably unforeseen when the
original second tranche conditionality relating to the General Service (Concession) Contract for
electricity operations was set forth. This success is especially welcome in the light of the precarious
state of the finances of EECI at the inception of the project (and which does not appear to have been
fully taken into account in the ESAL design). However, EECI (as discussed in paragraph 29 above),
recast as a holding company owning the sectoral assets (as well as its own debts) as state "patrimoine"
and leasing them to the private sector management company CIE, remains in an unsatisfactory state.
Government has recently indicated the possibility of converting EECI into a department of the
Ministry of Energy.
33.    At the opposite end of the spectrum, the requirement for implementation of a new system of
pricing petroleum products aimed at reflecting the international market price at the retail level has not



-9-
been met, even technically. The new system, as agreed between the Government and the Bank and as
written into the third tranche release conditionality of the ESAL, must:
(a) create consumer prices which vary -- automatically rather than in accordance with
administrative fiat or discretion -- over time, to provide correct price signals to the consumer
and avoid the distortions which had characterized the previous politically administered system;
(b) remove the cost-plus ex-refinery pricing and cost-based distribution margins which had
encouraged inefficiencies; and
(c) eliminate the earmarked parafiscal levies (stabilization and equalization charges, PETROCI
subsidy, security stockpile levy, etc.).
34.    Progress on this front was considered to have been made with the adoption of the budget law
in May, 1991. Issue (c) described above has been substantially resolved. Implementation of the new
pricing structure implied by items (a) and (b) above has not taken place, however; this must be
attributed to a combination of administrative inertia and vested interests. The Bank has on a number
of occasions recommended transferring GESTOCI's under-utilized storage tanks to the private sector,
which would lead to subsequent rationalization of excess capacity in the subsector. These actions
must be taken in order to create the conditions necessary for a truly rational (and workable) pricing
and fiscal system based on least cost petroleum product distribution. This tranche release condition
was waived at Government's request. It had not been met at the closure of the project. However,
full compliance is being sought under the Medium Term Framework (MTF) which governs the three
FY92 SECALs.
G ESTOCI
35.    As mentioned above, the Bank has actively encouraged the Government to radically reform
and/or divest itself of this mismanaged utility. To date, no credible action has been carried out
towards the reorganization of the distribution sector in general and GESTOCI in particular, and this
must be seen as one of the failures of the sectoral rationalization program which the ESAL was
intended to spearhead. While GESTOCI was not specifically mentioned in the formal tranche release
conditionality for the ESAL, it did figure in the Action Plan which defined the "Program'. Between
September 1989 and June 1990, the Government was to have implemented a series of measures for
reorganizing this sector, engagements which remained outstanding at the closure of the ESAL project.
However, the privatization of GESTOCI is envisaged in the context of the Privatization Support
Project, which was approved by the Board on May 5, 1992.
PETROCT
36.    The third tranche condition relating to the reorganization of the energy parastatal was formally
satisfied and the specific measures specified in the Action Plan have been carried out. Now that --
with the creation of CIE -- the principle of privatization in the energy sector is becoming actively
pursued in the country, however, the justification for retaining a substantial petroleum-subsector
parastatal must be reexamined. Downstream, the state's ownership of "strategic stocks" of fuel and
concomitant storage facilities as well as retail outlets is open to reexamination. Upstream, Cote
d'lvoire should seek to join the large numbers of developing countries (Argentina in the forefront)
deciding to get the public sector out of the risky, high-technology exploration and production business
which the private sector petroleum industry is ready and able to manage. Governments, world-wide,



- 10 -
are aiming to share in the rent of resource exploitation by --efficiently-- taxing the profits of the
private sector rather than by inefficient state interventions. Highly indebted governments such as
C6te d'lvoire should give priority to withdrawing the state from upstream activities, and to a certain
degree downstream activities. This was the rationale to include the privatization of PETROCI in the
above mentioned Privatization Support Project.
37.    Audit. Audit of the project accounts was carried out according to the project schedule.
Certain elements of the audit report, however, were questioned by the Bank. At the time of
preparation of this PCR, results and recommendations of the audit report were under discussion with
the Government.
E. PROJECT RESULTS
38.   Important progress was made under two of the four main foci of the ESAL: promotion of
petroleum exploration and production, and electricity generation and distribution management. On
the other two conditions (petroleum product pricing; rationalization of the product distribution
system), the results are much less encouraging, as conditions in these areas were waived and,
although since included as part of the conditionality of recently approved SECALs, have yet to be
fully implemented.
Petroleum Subsector
Upstream
39.    One of the most easily measurable results of the work undertaken in conjunction with the
ESAL is the campaign to promote international investor interest in upstream petroleum ventures
(exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas). This was linked to ESAL
conditionality requiring steps to increase private sector involvement in the petroleum upstream sector.
The Ivorian Exploration and Production-Sharing Contract, which had been used as the basis for
previous concession awards in the country, was extensively revised with the assistance of international
consultants. A Model Contract released in 1990 provided a significantly more coherent and
economically favorable framework to interested companies. Promotional seminars were held in
London and Houston, at which Ivorian and international consulting geologists presented the geological
and geochemical setting against which oil companies can evaluate the relative technical prospects of
the country. These were well attended and over a dozen companies followed up with visits to
Abidjan.
40.    As a result of the promotion, two companies entered into exploration and production-sharing
agreements based on the Model Contract. Several companies are still at negotiation stage.
41.    Besides the exploration promotion seminars, the Government also initiated a campaign to
interest companies in developing an offshore gas field which was discovered some years earlier and
not judged to be economically viable by the company which discovered it. After a false start with
one major company, the Government began negotiating with a mid-sized independent US oil
company; these negotiations were later widenecd to include a French consortium of construction and
electricity firms interested in developing the gas as part of a concession arrangement which would sell
some of the gas to SIR and generate and sell electricity to CIE under a BOO (Build-Own-Operate)
arrangement. The project currently under negotiation would involve an overall management
concession within which the oil company wotild have technical responsibility for development and



management of the gasfield. Both the Bank and IFC as well as other institutions such as EIB and
AfDB have encouraged this ambitious project and are considering participating in its financing.
Downstream: Petroleum Product Prices
42.    A partially acceptable system for revising the retail pricing mechanism for petroleum products
was enacted into law in May, 1991, as part of the Loi des Finances. This achieved one of the
objectives agreed between the Bank and the Borrower at the outset of the ESAL discussions, namely
the elimination of earmarked parafiscal levies. However, the cornerstone of the agreed strategy was
the direct linkage of the retail price to the ex-SIR refinery price, which in turn was to be linked to the
international market price of petroleum and allowed to fluctuate freely with the market, reducing the
need for "stabilization" levies and subsidies. This would have eliminated what had been a cost-plus
structure and would have enabled undistorted market signals to reach the consumer. The Government
obtained a waiver of the third tranche condition relating to this issue by promising (in a letter dated
January 31, 1991) to introduce the agreed system as soon as it could be enacted into law as described
above. The system set forth in the new legislation has still to be implemented.
GESTOCI
43.    As discussed earlier (paragraphs 35), the agreed Action Plan cailed for a radical reform of the
status and effective privatization of this government-controlled storage company. Any progress in this
direction has been superficial, despite the Government's having received several offers from
petroleum companies for the privatization and leasing of GESTOCI's petroleum facilities. Rather
than an isolated problem with limited effect on other sectoral issues, GESTOCI's existence in its
current form represents an impediment to downstream rationalization in general, including the
introduction of a truly market-driven product pricing system. The Bank was informed by letter on
May 27, 1992, that privatization was "imminent". As mentioned in paragraph 35 above, this issue
will be addressed under the Privatization Support Project.
Electricity Subsector
44.    The creation by the Government on November 1, 1990, of CIE (cf para 29 above) is
considered successful by all participants:
(a) Government of Cote d'lvoire: the start-up of a new operating company has helped to restore
confidence and credibility with international lending institutions and ensured that the essential
rehabilitation work would be done;
(b) Staff: the takeover of operations was carried out without any employee discharge but with an
improvement in performance and productivity (staff reduction will occur through natural
atrition);
(c) Customers: an improvement in the quality of service in terms of reliability of supply of
electricity, with a 38% drop in the duration of power outages in one year (from 50 to 31
hours);
(d) Shareholders: despite large expenditures for maintenance, equipment and hardware, and
vehicles, the new company has succeeded in posting an operating profit of about US $2.5
million in the first year, thanks to an efficient organization and management.



- 12 -
45.    In spite of those significant improvements, as discussed in paragraph 43 above, remaining
problems reveal that the Government still is a long way from having a creditworthy power sector and
a smoothly operating institutional framework. EECI's role is still poorly defined. The framework of
sector responsibility under which CIE functions remains ambiguous, particularly as concerns future
investments; the collection of outstanding debts, mainly from the Government, are insufficient and
efforts must be made to reduce fraud, improve the billing system and collect unpaid bills.
Sustainability
46.    The sustainability of the successes achieved with CIE, and the improvement in the theoretical
petroleum pricing structure, may be jeopardized by the critical financial status of EECI, the weak
regulatory framework, and the poor managerial capability of GESTOCI.
47.    This loan aimed at achieving sustainability of results on three macroeconomic fronts:
(a) increasing competitiveness by reducing prices of key energy inputs, mainly electricity for
industrial users and petroleum product prices;
(b) improving resource mobilization by removing parafiscal levies from petroleum product prices
and replacing them with unified taxes going to the Treasury; and
(c) reforming the large energy parastatals to reduce waste and redirect investment to more
productive uses.
48.    Item (a) was partially accomplished, in that the average price of electricity was reduced, -
including medium-voltage electricity to industrial users -- in line with the guidelines set forth in the
Action Plan and in the Loan Agreement tranche release conditions. Petroleum product prices have
not been allowed to vary, and given the great significance of petroleum as an input in the Ivorian
economy, this could hinder efforts toward improved competitiveness.
49.    Item (b) was accomplished. Issue (c) was again partly successful (privatization of EECI
management, PETROCI restructuring), but problems remain with EECI and GESTOCI. On the
institutional front, therefore, the record is mixed.



- 13-
PROJECT COMPtETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3150-IVC)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FORM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and III with the request to prepare Part
II but no reply was received.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D' IVOIRE
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSThENT LOAN
(LOAN 3150-IVC)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Original Loan Amount:      $100.0 million
Disbursed:                 $100.0 million
Original Loan Date                Actual Date
Initiating Memorandum             11/87                       11/16/87
Appraisal                         01/88                      03/88
Negotiations Completed            11/89                       11/29/89
Board Approval                    12/89                       12/21/89
Loan Agreement                    12/89                       12/27/89
Effectiveness                     12/89                      05/01/90
Second Tranche Release            07/90                      09/13/90
Third Tranche Release             12/90                      02/25/91
Loan Closing                      06/30/91                   06/30/91
Accounts Closed                   06/30/91                   06/30/91
A. Related Bank Loans
Loan and Title      Purpose                     Year Approved
1896-RCI     Investments in power subtransmission    1980           Closed
(Power)      and primary distribution.
Institutional support in the form
of training and consulting services
2189-RCI     To PETROCI for investment in the     1982              Closed
(Petroleum)   exploration and development of
hydrocarbons offshore.
Program of TA to strengthen the
company's technical capabilities



- 15 -
B.    Cumulative Loan Disbursements (US$ miUlion)
Period Dates              Disbursements      Cum. Disbursements  Percent Disbursed
10/01/89 - 12/31/89              0.00                 0.00            0.0
01/01/90 - 03/31/90      31,032,678.62        31,032,678.62           31.0
04/01/90 - 06/30/90              0.00         31,032,678.62           31.0
07/01/90 - 09/30/90      33,967,321.38        65,000,000.00           65.0
10/01/90 - 12/31/90              0.00        65,000,000.00           65.0
01/01/91 - 03/31/91      35,000,000.00       100,000,000.00          100.0
C.    Mission Data
Mission            Month/Year          No. of persons'     Staff Weeks         Repo
in field
Before Appraisal   09/86               1 (EE)                 1.0             09/16/86
03/87              6 (E, EE, PO, FA)      12.0            03/12/87
07/87              2 (E, EE)              4.0             08/06/87
Total 1       17.0
Appraisal          9-10/87             3 (E,FA,EE)            4.5             10/19/87
through             11-12/87           2 (E,EE)               2.5             12/29/87
Board Approval     2/88                1                      0.1             02/04/88
Total 2         7.1
Supervision         1-2/90             2 (E, EE)              3.0             03/02/90
5/90                1 (EE)                0.5             06/14/90
10-11/90           1 (EE)                 1.0             11/16/90
12/90              1 (EE)                 1.4             01/10/91
06/91               1 (PO)                0.5             09/03/91
07/91               1 (EE)                0.3             07/15/91
Total 3         6.7
Total 1+2+3         30.8
Key to specialization: E  Senior Economist
EE  Energy Economist
PO  Project Officer
FA  Financial Analyst



- 16 -
D. Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle in Staff Weeks
Stage of Cycle
1985  1986  1987   1988   1989   1990   1991  1922   IQTtl
Pre-appraisal           5.2    30.2  38.8   45.9   -        -       -     -       120.1
Appraisal               -      -      -      26.1   1.7    -        -     -       27.8
Negotiations            -      -      -      10.8   28.8   26.8   -       -       66.4
Supervision             -      -      -      -       -      20      30.4  26      76.4
PCR                            -      -      -              -       -     5       5
Total                   5.2   30.2  38.8   82.8   30.5   46.8   30.4  31          295.7



- 17-
E.     Project Results - Tranche Release
Conditions for Tranche Release
Tranche I
None
Tranche 2
1. Initiation of the offshore petroleum exploration       Successfully concluded.
campaign.
2. Preparation of Draft General Conditions for the        Satisfied by the privatization of the management of the
public service concession agreement for the               electricity subsector.
generation, transmission and distribution of electricity
and a draft of the first periodic performance contact
between the Government and EECI.
3. Introduction of a value-added tax in the medium-       Satisfied; law published on May 30, 1990.
voltage electricity tariff for industry.
4. Reduction of the low-voltage residential tariff for    Not fulfilled; waiver granted pending tariff study. A
lower-income households from CFAF 52.7 to CFAF            reductioninlow-voltageelectricitytariffsubsequently
38.7 per kilowatt-low.                                    implemented.
5. Implementation of the third phase of the program       Not fulfilled as expected; waiver granted following
for financial restructuring.                              signature of Protocole d'Accord for the privatization
of EECI's management.
Tranche 3
1. Reorganization of PETROCI and the personnel            Sucessfully completed.
restructuring plan for SIR.
2. Implementation of a new system for petroleum            A waiver was granted pending enactment of necessary
product pricing.                                           legislation. Text of law subsequently enacted
apparently satisfactory, but not implemented.
3. Signature of the general conditions for the putiblic   Satisfied by theprivatizationofthe management of the
service concession agreement for the generation,           electricity subsector.
transmission and distribution of electricity, and
execution of the first periodic performance contract
between the Government and EECI.
4. Implementation of a system for budgeting,               Successfully completed.
approval and payment of bills for electricity
consumption by the public sector.



- 18 -
F.       Status of Legal Covenants
Section
Covenant                                                                     Status of Compliance
3.01 (a)    The Borrower and the Bank shall exchange views on the progress achieved in   In full compliance
carrying out the program and actions specified in the Agreement;
3.01 (b)    The Borrower shall fumish, prior to each exchange of views a report on the    In full compliance
progress achieved in carrying out the program;
3.02        Procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan shall   In full compliance
be govemed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
3.03        The Borrower shall carry out the energy sector studies referred to in the     In compliance except
program;                                                                     for the tariff study
3.04 (a)    The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts to reflect in accordance     In full compliance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the expenditures
financed out of the proceeds of the loan;
3.04 (b)    (i) Have the records and accounts, including those for the Special Account    Not fully complied
for each FY, audited by independent auditors acceptable by the Bank;
(ii) Fumish to the Bank, not later than six months after the end of each FY, a    Not fully complied
certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditor;
(iii) Fumish to the Bank such other infonnntion conceming said records and   Not fully complied
accounts and the audit as the Bank shall reasonably request;
3.04 (c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals froin the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower
shall:
(i) Maintain records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;              In full compliance
(ii) Retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report   In full compliance
for the FY in which the Iast withdrawal from the loan account was made, all
records evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) Enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;             In full compliance
(iv) Ensure that such records and accounts arc included in the annual audits  Not fully complied
and that the report of such audit contains a scparnte opinion to whether the
statements of expenditures can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.



