Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3150 IVC
(Energy Sector Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 27, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3150 IVC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 27, 1989, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated July 15, 1988, whose Action 
Plan has been updated on July 10, 1989, from the Borrower describing a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve adjustment of the Borrower's 
energy sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to 
the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing 
of urgently needed imports required during such execution; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the 
proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Loan Agreement.";
(b)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
 
(c)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably 
request, on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to 
the Loan Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"SITC"  means  the  Standard  International  Trade Classification, 
Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986);
(b)
"CFAF" and "CFA Francs" mean the currency of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"CAA" means Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement of the Borrower;
 
(e)
"DCGTx" means Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux of the Borrower;
 
(f)
"EECI" means Energie Electrique de la Cote d'Ivoire;
 
(g)
"PETROCI"  means  Societe  Nationale  d'Operations Petroliores de la Cote 
d'Ivoire; and
(h)
"SIR" means Societe Ivoirienne de Raffinage.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred million Dollars 
$100,000,000) as the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Page  3
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs a special account in CAA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall 
notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 2.08. (a) CAA is the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts CAA with the care to prepare withdrawal applications under the Loan and to 
collect the documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Bank in support of 
such applications; each withdrawal application shall, to the extent practicable, apply 
for withdrawal of an aggregate amount of not
less than $700,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the 
actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, through DCGTx, carry out or cause to be 
carried out the energy sector studies referred to in the Program.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year, audited in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as practicable, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
Page  5
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby  specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, The 
Minister of the Borrower in charge of Economy and Finance is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
B.P. V 125
Abidjan
Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFIN
MINFIN 23747
Abidjan
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  6
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By /s/ Charles Providence Gomis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ismail Serageldin
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, 
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods 
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, 
as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
      112                    -              Alcoholic beverages
      121                    -              Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                            refuse
      122                    -              Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
   or not containing tobacco sub-
                                            stitutes)
      525                    -              Radioactive and associated materials
      667                    -              Pearls, precious and semi-precious 
   stones, unworked or worked
      718                    718.7          Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, fuel
                                            elements (cartridges), non-irradiated for
                                            nuclear reactors
      897                    897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                                            group metals except watches and watch
                                            cases) and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' 
   wares (including set gems)
      971                       -           Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
                                            and concentrates)
Page  7
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower 
is also that of another country from the territory of which goods are supplied, 
expenditures in such currency for such goods shall be eligible for financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$20,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that 
date but after four months before the date of this Agreement;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $15,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed 
or agreed to finance;
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose 
or for luxury consumption; and
(g)
expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to $40,000,000 
for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
3.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan:
(a)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached the equivalent of 
$30,000,000, unless the
Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (i) with the progress 
achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that the actions described in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken; and
(b)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached the equivalent of 
$65,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program; and (ii) that the actions described in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement have been taken.
4.
If, after any such exchange of views described in paragraphs 3 (a) or 3 (b) 
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and 
actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower 
shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the 
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any 
part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
 
April 1, 1995                                        1,820,000
October 1, 1995                                      1,895,000
April 1, 1996                                        1,965,000
October 1, 1996                                      2,040,000
April 1, 1997                                        2,120,000
October 1, 1997                                      2,205,000
April 1, 1998                                        2,290,000
Page  8
October 1, 1998                                      2,375,000
April 1, 1999                                        2,470,000
October 1, 1999                                      2,565,000
April 1, 2000                                        2,665,000
October 1, 2000                                      2,765,000
April 1, 2001                                        2,875,000
October 1, 2001                                      2,985,000
April 1, 2002                                        3,100,000
October 1, 2002                                      3,220,000
April 1, 2003                                        3,345,000
October 1, 2003                                      3,475,000
April 1, 2004                                        3,610,000
October 1, 2004                                      3,750,000
April 1, 2005                                        3,895,000
October 1, 2005                                      4,045,000
April 1, 2006                                        4,200,000
October 1, 2006                                      4,365,000
April 1, 2007                                        4,530,000
October 1, 2007                                      4,710,000
April 1, 2008                                        4,890,000
October 1, 2008                                      5,080,000
April 1, 2009                                        5,275,000
October 1, 2009                                      5,475,000
___________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective  
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to the Loan on the day 
of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years  
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but  
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but  
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not  
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not  
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before  
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Page  9
1.
Except as provided under paragraphs 2 and 3 hereof, contracts for the 
procurement of goods shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in 
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity 
to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's 
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid; 
such advertisements should be 
placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in  addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; 
or
 
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide 
international circulation; or
 
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in 
the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"Bidding documents may also require the bidder to state the bid price in 
a single 
currency widely used in international trade and specified in the 
bidding documents."
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
2.
Contracts for the procurement of goods by the Borrower or public sector entities 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 each shall be awarded on the 
basis of the legal
procurement procedures applicable to the purchaser of such goods.
3.
Contracts for the procurement of goods by the private sector estimated to cost 
the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 each may follow the commercial practices of the 
purchaser of such goods, provided, however, that, to the extent practicable, 
quotations from eligible suppliers from at least two countries eligible under the 
Guidelines should be sought.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, 
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective 
bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and tendering 
procedures followed and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
5.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect 
thereof, such documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to 
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
6.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Schedule, where 
payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, 
the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 4 or paragraph 5 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall 
be furnished to the Bank
Page  10
as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
7.
The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraphs 3 (a) (ii)
and (3) (b) (ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.
For the purposes of the release of the second tranche, the Borrower has taken 
the following actions:
(a)
The consultation process with petroleum companies for exploration and 
development of offshore hydrocarbon prospects has been initiated;
(b)
The draft Convention Generale de Concession du Service Public de 
Production, de Transport et de Distribution de l'Energie Electrique, and the draft of 
its first periodic implementation agreement between the Borrower and EECI have been 
prepared;
(c)
the value added tax at the reduced level has been introduced in the 
medium-voltage electricity tariff applicable to industrial companies;
(d)
the moderate tariff for low-voltage household electricity has been 
reduced from CFAF 52.7 to CFAF 38.7 per kilowatt/hour (excluding royalty and municipal 
tax); and
(e)
The third phase of EECI's financial restructuring program has been 
implemented.
2.
For the purposes of the release of the third tranche, the Borrower has taken the 
following actions:
(a)
PETROCI's reorganization plan, and SIR's personnel restructuring plan are 
being implemented; 
(b)
A new petroleum product pricing and taxation system has been introduced;
 
(c)
The Convention Generale de Concession du Service Public de Production, de 
Transport et de Distribution de l'Energie Electrique, and its first periodic 
implementation agreement between the Borrower and EECI have been executed;
(d)
a system for budgeting, certifying and paying public sector electricity 
bills has been put in place; and 
(e)
EECI's 10-year investment program for production and transport has been 
prepared.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods required during the execution of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan into accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
Page  11
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been made out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the 
following situations first arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by 
the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance 
with the provisions 
of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the amount of any 
outstanding 
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the 
Program, shall be equal to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.  
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
Page  12
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
