Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Energy Sector Adjustment Program)
 
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the
GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN
Dated January
17, 1989
 
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January
17, 1989, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the 
Recipient)
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) 
acting as Administrator
(the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the GOVERNMENT 
OF JAPAN
(Japan).
 
WHEREAS
(A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated June 3. 1987 between Japan and 
the Bank, Japan has requested the Bank, and the Bank has agreed, to administer grant
funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects
supported by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS
(B) the Recipient has requested and Japan has agreed to make available 
to the Recipient a grant
(the Grant) out of said grant funds to finance the cost of 
carrying out the technical assistance described in Schedule
2
to this Agreement
(the
Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section
1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
of the Bank, dated January
1,
1985
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement, subject, however, to the following modifications thereto:
 
(a)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections
2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof, means the International Bank for 
Page  2
Reconstruction and Development acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the
letter agreement between Japan and the Bank referred to in Recital
(A) of this 
Agreement, except that in Section
6.02, the term 'Bank' shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in its own capacity;
(b)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Recipient;
(c)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
this Agreement;
(d)
the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant;
(e)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, shall 
be amended to read the Grant Account;
(f)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
technical assistance described in Schedule
2
to this Agreement;
(g)
Section 4.01. shall be modified to read:
 
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; provided, 
however, that if
the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant
have been paid or are
payable in another currency, the Administrator shall,
at the request of the Recipient,
purchase such currency with the proceeds of
such withdrawal.";
 
(h)
Sections 2.01 (5), (7), (12), (13), (14), (15), (16), (17) and (19), 
3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 4.07, 4.08, 4.10, 6.02 (a)(i), 
6.02 (g). 6.02 (h), 6.05, 6.07, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 9.01 (b), 9.02, 9.03, 10.02, 12.01, 
12.02, 12.03, 12.04 and 12.05 are  deleted;
 
(i)
The second and third sentences of Section 4.09 are deleted; and
 
(j)
All references to "the Guarantor,, wherever such term is used in the 
General Conditions, shall not apply to this Agreement.
 
Section
1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the terms
"yen" and 
"Y" 
mean the currency of Japan
.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section
2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, the Grant in an amount of six hundred
million yen
(Y600,000,000).
 
Section
2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator.
 
Section
2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Technical Assistance
Section
3.01. (a) The Recipient shall carry out or cause to be carried out the 
Technical Assistance with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
Page  3
required for the Technical Assistance
.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
shall carry.out the Technical Assistance in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule
3
to this Agreement.
 
Section
3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the consultants' services required for the Technical Assistance and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
4
to this
Agreement.
Section
3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Technical Assistance of the
departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Technical
Assistance or any part thereof.
 
(b)
The Recipient shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later
that six months after the end of each such year, the report
of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Administrator shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator
shall from time to
time reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section
4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto.
Section
4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation; Transfer of
Rights and Obligations
Section
5.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Recipient shall be the 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
 
Section
5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
 
For the Recipient:
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance
B.P. V 125
01
Abidjan
01
Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFIN
MINFIN 3747
Page  4
Abidjan
For the Administrator:
 
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By
/s/ Charles Providence Gomis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By
/s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE
1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
%
of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Studies
290,000,000        100%
 
(2) Technical
250,000,000        100%
assistance
(3) Unallocated
60,000,000
 
TOTAL
600,000,000
 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement
or for services not eligible under this Agreement.
 
Page  5
SCHEDULE
2
Description of Technical Assistance
The Technical Assistance will consist of the following studies and activities,
all of which are necessary to implement the Recipient's Energy Sector Adjustment
Program:
-
preparation of the National Energy Plan (biomass component; study of 
resources and
demand);
 
-
petroleum exploration promotion (execution of a geological synthesis, 
preparation of
a multi-client file and of the promotion campaign);
 
-
environmental impact study of the proposed Soubre hydro project;
 
-
study of the extension of the thermo-power production capacity; and
 
-
assistance in technical, commercial and financial management to the 
entities
operating in the energy sector.
 
SCHEDULE
3
Implementation Program
1.
The Recipient shall carry out the studies through the monitoring and control of 
its
"etablissement public national, Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux
(DCGTx)".
 
2.
The technical assistance shall be supervised by the Monitoring Committees of 
'the hydrocarbon and power sub-sectors including the contracts between consultants and 
entities of the sub-sector concerned.
 
SCHEDULE
4
Consultants' Services
In order to assist the Recipient in the execution of its Energy Sector
Adjustment Program, the Recipient shall employ experts or consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Administrator. Such experts or consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Administrator on the
basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank an Executing Agency" published by the Administrator in August 1981.
