Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4634 - GH 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Economic Governance and Poverty Reduction Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 15, 2009  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4634 - GH 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 15, 2009, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF 
GHANA (“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to one 
hundred ninety three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 193,800,000) (variously, “Credit” and “Financing). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension shall be that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Minister for Finance and Economic Planning  
 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning  
 
P.O. Box MB40 
 
Accra, Ghana  
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
ECONOMICON 
2205 MIFAEP GH 
233-21-667069 
Accra 
 
 
      
 
 
233-21-663854 
Page  4
3
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Accra, Republic of Ghana, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
By /s/ Kwabena Duffuor 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By 
/s/ 
Eunice 
Dapaah 
     
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
the Program include the following: 
 
The Recipient has: 
1. 
opened a single treasury account in the Bank of Ghana and has identified the 
MDAs’ accounts to be connected to the said account, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 36 and 37 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
2. 
ensured that at least 80 percent of the total number of procurement contracts 
processed in 2008 by MDAs covered in the PPA survey sample (which covers 80 
percent of total MDAs transactions in value) have followed procurement methods 
and procedures compliant with the Recipient’s Public Procurement Act, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 44 of the Letter of Development 
Policy; 
3. 
begun regular publication of comprehensive and detailed quarterly fiscal out-
turns with no more than one quarter lag, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 49 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
4. 
implemented a net hiring freeze in the public sector (excluding the absorption of 
trainees in education and health) through the completion of an employment audit 
and the elimination of ghost workers from the payroll of the Ghana Health 
Service, and the approval of all MDAs’ hiring decisions by the Recipient’s 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning and the Office of the Head of Civil 
Service, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 55 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; 
5. 
reconstituted the boards of Volta River Authority, Electricity Company of Ghana, 
Ghana National Petroleum Company, Tema Oil Refinery and the Public Utilities 
Regulatory Commission in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 63 of the 
Letter of Development Policy; and 
6. 
increased the number of households covered by the Recipient’s “Livelihood 
Empowerment Against Poverty Program” since June 30, 2008, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 75 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
 
Page  6
5
B. 
Actions to be Taken Under the Program
.
The actions to be taken by the 
Recipient under the Program include the following: 
 The 
Recipient 
has: 
1. 
taken contingency fiscal measures, once the public wage rate increase for 2009 
has been established, to correct any deviations with respect to the fiscal deficit 
and the share of pro-
poor expenditures targets set forth in the Recipient’s 2009 
budget, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 45 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; 
2. 
submitted to Parliament a freedom of information bill and, if approved, has 
adopted a related implementation plan including a budget, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 50 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
3. 
appointed a Minister of State in charge of public sector reform, and eliminated 
ghost workers from payroll in the Ghana Education Service, initiated 
employment audits in all remaining MDAs, and classified at least half of the total 
number of subvented agencies in preparation for their rationalization, divestiture 
or commercialization, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 56 of the 
Letter of Development Policy; 
4. 
completed, through its Ministry of Energy, consultations with stakeholders on an 
electricity sector financial recovery plan and, through its Cabinet, approved the 
said plan, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 61 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; 
5. 
completed consultations with stakeholders on draft legislation concerning the 
proposed Ghana Petroleum Regulatory Authority and the oil and gas fiscal 
regime, and Cabinet has approved such draft legislation, taking into account the 
results of the consultations, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 67 of 
the Letter of Development Policy; and 
6. 
revised the classification of pro-poor public expenditures based on an assessment 
of their effective impact on poverty, for use in the Recipient’s 2010 budget, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 72 of the Letter of Development 
Policy. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  7
6
B. Allocation 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in two 
tranches.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in 
the table below: 
Allocations
 
Amount of the Financing Allocated
 
(expressed in SDR)
 
First Tranche
 
96,900,000
 
Second Tranche
 
96,900,000
 
TOTAL AMOUNT
 
193,800,000
 
C. Tranche 
Release 
Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Second 
Tranche unless the Association is satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Sections 3.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association:
 
1. 
with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program;  
2. 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Recipient is 
appropriate; and  
3. 
that the actions described in Part B of Section I of this Schedule have 
been taken.  
 
If, after this exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, it may 
give notice to the Recipient to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after the 
notice, the Recipient has not taken steps satisfactory to the Association with 
respect to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above, then the Association may, by notice to the 
Recipient, cancel all or any part of the Unwithdrawn Financing Balance. 
D. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
Page  8
7
E. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the account and the recording of the amounts of the Financing into 
the Recipient’s budget management system
 
referred to in Part D of this 
Section audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the said 
account and recording of the amounts of the Financing into the budget 
management system, and their audit, as the Association shall reasonably 
request.
 
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2010. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each January 15 and July 15. 
 
Commencing on July 15, 2019 to and including 
January 15, 2029. 
1.25% 
Commencing July 15, 2029  to and including 
January 15, 2044 
2.5% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
 
Sub-group
 
Description of Item
 
112
 
Alcoholic beverages
 
121
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse
 
122
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco 
substitutes)
 
525
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials
 
667
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked
 
718 
 
718.7
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728
 
728.43 
 
Tobacco processing machinery
 
897 
 
897.3
 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems)
 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates)
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
Page  11
10 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party); 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
2. 
“First Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “First Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
4. 
“Ghana Education Service” means the Ghana Education Service, an agency of 
the Recipient established pursuant to Law No.  506 of 1995. 
5. 
“Ghana Health Service” means the Ghana Health Service, established pursuant to 
the Ghana Health Service and Teaching Hospitals Act, 1996, (Act 525). 
6. 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the Recipient’s letter to the Association 
dated June 12, 2009, declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of 
the Program and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
7. 
“MDAs” means the Recipient’s ministries, departments and agencies. 
8. 
“Public Procurement Authority” means the Public Procurement Authority 
established under the Public Procurement Act of 2003, (Act 663). 
9. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote economic governance and reduce poverty and set forth or referred to in 
the Letter of Development Policy. 
Page  12
11 
10. 
“Second Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Second Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
Page  13
12 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
