Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.: 
AB4610
 
Project Name 
Ghana PRSC-7 DPL 
Region 
Africa 
Sector 
Gen. Public Adm.(40%), Primary Education (20%), Energy 
(20%), Health (10%), Gen wat/san/fld sect (10%). 
Project ID 
P113301 
Borrower(s) 
Ghana Government 
Implementing Agency 
Minister of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
March 04, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 14, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 28, 2009 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Ghana recorded significant achievements in terms of governance, growth and poverty reduction 
in the recent years
.
The Country Performance Institutional Assessment ranked Ghana 5th among all 75 
low-income countries, second in Sub-Saharan Africa and above several middle-income countries in 
2007. Between 2001 and 2007, this index went from 3.4 to 4.0. The successful democratic transition 
from December 2008 is another important expression of the maturity of Ghanaian institutions at their 
highest level. Growth accelerated, to average 6 percent in the last five years. The proportion of people 
living with less than PPPUS$1.25 a day declined from 39 percent in 1999 to 30 percent in 2005, and to 
probably less afterwards.  
Growth was supported by macro-economic stability and an improved investment climate between 
2002 and 2007
.
Prudent macroeconomic management contained inflation and yielded increased 
availability of credit to the private sector, with the share of private sector in total domestic credit 
reaching 70 percent in 2007, up from around 47 percent in 2002. There was also a decline in the time 
required for business registration, falling to 42 days in 2007, down from 129 days reported in 2002. This 
positive business climate has translated in turn in the strong performance of exports and in the country’s 
ability to draw on foreign savings, by tapping the international capital market, attracting foreign direct 
investors, and continuing to receive large remittance inflows from Ghanaians living abroad.  
Access to education and health services rose
.
The share of supervised maternal deliveries rose to 54 
percent by 2005 (most recent available data), up from 49 percent in 2002, with particularly marked 
increases in the deprived Northern regions. There was also an increase in the Net Primary Enrolment 
Rate which reached 83 percent in 2007/08, up from 56 percent in 2003/4. Finally, there was a further 
decline in the HIV/AIDS prevalence rate among pregnant women, dropping to 2.6 percent in 2007, 
down from 3.6 percent in 2002.  
Public financial management was strengthened, although issues remain
.
Recent years witnessed 
improvements in budget coverage, timelier external auditing of the accounts of the consolidated fund, 
and in the implementation of new public procurement and internal audit legislation. The budget 
coverage was broadened to include more information on internally generated funds and external grants, 
including HIPC and MDRI grants. External audit reports became timelier, with the annual report by the 
Accountant General being submitted to Parliament within less of 12 months of the closing of the 
accounts. There was also progress in implementing the new public procurement law, with increased 
Page  2
coverage provided by the entity tender committees and the tender review boards, and, under the auspices 
of the new internal audit agency law, the number of government ministries, departments and agencies 
submitting internal audit reports began rising. Yet, growing fiscal deficits and budget deviations in 
recent years (2006, 2007 and 2008) underline the need to address pending issues related to payroll 
management and control, cash management, and Parliament oversight of major budget revisions within 
Ghana’s fiscal year.  
In 2008, fiscal and current account deficits significantly widened, as a consequence of high 
demand pressures.
 In particular, public expenditures grew up rapidly to reach almost 41 percent of 
GDP as a consequence of substantial increases in public wages, capital expenditures, energy subsidies 
and debt service. Meanwhile, indirect taxes and grants declined in proportion of GDP to elevate the 
(post-grants) fiscal deficit to 14 percent, up from 9 percent in 2007, and against a foreseen 5 percent in 
the 2008 budget law. As a result of concomitant large demand pressures, the current account deficit 
(including official transfers) also widened by US$1.2 billion in 2008, to reach 18 percent of GDP. 
Ghana’s high fiscal and external deficits now expose the economy to a sharp correction
,
as their 
financing will most likely prove to be much more difficult in 2009 and 2010. The difficulty of the 
domestic situation is compounded with an extraordinary challenging external environment. In turn, 
Ghana’s economic outlook critically depends on its capacity to orderly address fiscal imbalances 
through a series of structural measures. The fiscal correction, to be credible and sustained, needs to be 
structural in nature – with a strong focus on public financial management, civil service and the energy 
sector to meet the objectives of reinforcing expenditure control systems and improving service delivery 
at sustainable cost. In contrast, a shallow adjustment would make the budget inoperative to support 
Government’s new priorities and vulnerable to expenditure slippages. It would also only postpone to a 
later stage a more painful adjustment. 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The proposed operation aims at supporting Ghana’s Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy 
(GPRS II)
.
Specifically, the PRSC-7 leverages the poverty emphasis of sector focused operations by 
ensuring appropriate expenditure allocation and progress towards the achievement of several outcome-
based objectives. The latter include: in the energy sector, the restoration of ECG and VRA (electricity 
distribution and generation State-Owned Enterprises) operational accounts, and the expansion of 
generation capacities through private participation; in the social sectors, greater access to primary school 
at the local (deprived districts) and national level; improved education quality through textbooks 
delivery and teachers training; reduced child mortality through immunization; increased rural access to 
safe water; in the public sector, greater executive accountability through prosecution of wrongdoing 
cases identified by the Public Account Committee; further decentralization through strengthened Local 
Government Secretariat capacities; comparability across public sector employees through payroll 
reform; and improved budget execution through reduced time lag between Ministries, Departments and 
Agencies funding requests and releases. 
The PRSC series is central to the World Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy for the period July 
2008 – June 2011. 
The CAS envisions a series of single-tranche PRSCs to provide continued support to 
a
series of reforms as articulated in the GPRS II. Given their cross-cutting focus, PRSCs support sectoral 
development policy and investment lending operations by ensuring appropriate expenditure allocation 
and focus from the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning on promoting institutional development 
in budget design and execution. 
Page  3
The Poverty Reduction Support Credit is a central instrument of aid harmonization.
 Ghan
a’s 
Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy acknowledges the need for continued official development 
assistance - including budget support. The strategy created the momentum for a significant group of 
donors to align their budgetary support under a common framework, the Multi-Donor Budgetary 
Support (MDBS), of which this PRSC-7 is part. As reflected in the Framework Memorandum between 
the Government of Ghana and Development Partners (DPs) of May 2008, the MDBS pursues the 
objectives of (i) providing additional and more predictable resource to implement the GPRS II; (ii) 
increasing aid effectiveness through harmonization and alignment with Government procedures; and 
(iii) fostering mutual accountability. Such objectives were strongly re-affirmed at the third High Level 
Forum on Aid Effectiveness held in Accra, Ghana, in September 2008.  
3. Preliminary 
description 
There is a strong macro-economic rationale for providing swift counter-cyclical external financing 
against demonstrated progress on prior actions and a credible adjustment plan
.
Ghana’s medium 
term development prospects remain bright, building on past records, strong institutions and the promises 
of oil and democratic dividends. But a pre-requisite is macroeconomic stability. Against demonstrated 
progress on prior actions and a credible adjustment plan, significant budget support could (i) reinforce 
the likelihood of a successful adjustment as making it less abrupt and more credible; (ii) protect critical 
developmental expenditures and programs; and (iii) protect gains in aid harmonization achieved through 
the Multi Donors Budgetary Support to which the World Bank is a major contributor.  
Measures supported by the proposed operation are expected to have a significant positive and 
direct impact on poverty reduction
.
In includes: (i) outcome-driven policy actions to consolidate and 
expand Ghana’s achievements in human development (child immunization, access to primary education 
in deprived districts, rural access to safe water) and decentralization for improved service delivery; and 
(ii) policy actions aimed at restoring the financial viability of the energy sector and expanding electricity 
generation through opening up market which will contribute to reduce risks of power shortages, thus 
improving the investment climate. More broadly, the proposed operation will support the macro-
economic stabilization program, thus reducing the poor and near poor exposure to macro-economic 
shocks. 
4. Environment Aspects 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed operation are not likely to have significant 
impacts on the country’s environment and natural resources
.
The adoption of a renewable energy 
bill envisaged in the PRSC-7 is actually expected to pave the way for air pollution mitigation through a 
greater use of non-fo
ssil energy. More generally, the GPRS II builds on Ghana’s robust environmental 
institutional framework and considerable capacities to set environmental management standards. The 
institutional framework is defined by the 1991 National Environmental Policy, the 1992 National 
Environmental Action Plan, the 1994 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Act, and the 2008 
Natural Resource and Environmental Governance (NREG) program. The latter outlines the basis for 
engaging civil society and local communities in natural resource and environmental governance, and its 
implementation is supported by another World Bank programmatic development policy operation. The 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has since the late 1980s adopted Environmental Impact 
Assessments (EIAs) as a management tool to screen undertakings likely to pose adverse impact on the 
environment. EIAs became legal in 1999 and are applied to all development projects and programs that 
have the potential to give rise to significant social and environmental impacts. EIAs are mandatory for 
seventeen types of activities classified as critical, including mining, petroleum and gas field 
Page  4
development and exploration, construction of dams, harbors and roads, and logging and disposal of 
timber. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source ($m.) 
IDA Total 
US$100.0 
 
Page  5
Contac Point:  Sebastien Dessus 
Title:    
Lead Economist, AFTP4 
Telephone: 202-458-5075 
Fax:  
202-473-8136 
Email:  
sdessus@worldbank.org 
 
wb204391 
C:\Documents and Settings\wb204391\My Documents\GHANA\Prsc7\PRSC7 PID Concept Stage.doc 
06/03/2009 19:17:00
 
