Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.: 
49021-GH
 
Project Name 
Ghana Economic Governance and Poverty Reduction Credit 
Region 
Africa 
Sector 
Gen. Public Adm.(60%), Energy (20%), Social Protection (20%) 
Project ID 
P113301 
Borrower(s) 
Ghana Government 
Implementing Agency 
Minister of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
June 5, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 15, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 30, 2009 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Ghana recorded significant achievements in terms of governance, growth and poverty reduction 
in the recent years
.
The Country Performance and Institutional Assessment ranked Ghana 5th among 
all 75 low-income countries, second in Sub-Saharan Africa and above several middle-income countries 
in 2007. Between 2001 and 2007, this index went from 3.4 to 4.0. The successful democratic transition 
from December 2008 is another important expression of the maturity of Ghanaian institutions at their 
highest level. Growth accelerated, to average 6 percent in the last five years. The proportion of people 
living with less than PPP US$1.25 a day declined from 39 percent in 1999 to 30 percent in 2005, and to 
probably less afterwards.  
The new Government inherited a difficult macro-economic situation, the result of a series of 
shocks in 2008 which exacerbated a structural trend of widening fiscal imbalances.
 Rapid fiscal 
expansion in 2008 coincided with a sudden closure of access to international capital markets in 
September, and as a result, the Ghanaian economy was hard hit by the combination of a widening 
current account deficit and a contracting capital account surplus.
 
While fiscal expansion
 
was prolonging 
trends observed since 2005, it was also the result of a combination of important exogenous shocks, 
including floods and droughts in late 2007 and a rise in world food prices, prompting Government to 
introduce food tax exemptions, and in oil prices which led the Government to purchase oil on behalf of 
utilities, in the absence of effective tariff adjustment mechanisms.  The electoral cycle which culminated 
in the successful Presidential and Legislative elections of December 2008 also contributed to the fiscal 
expansion, as observed during previous elections. 
The newly elected President, in his address to the Nation committed to take bold austerity 
measures in 2009 and 2010
 to bring Ghana’s fiscal stance onto a sound and sustainable track and 
protect the development objectives set forth in Ghana’s Second Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy. 
The budget law, which was passed in March 2009, foresees a reduction of the fiscal deficit from 14.5 
percent of GDP in 2008 to 9.4 percent in 2009, as the first step in a medium-term fiscal consolidation 
strategy aimed at stabilizing the debt to GDP ratio in 2010 to put it on a downward path from 2011 
onwards. To do this, the Government is targeting a deficit of 6.0 percent in 2010 and 4.5 percent in 
2011. The Government strategy comprises immediate actions in 2009 to restore control over 
expenditures and pave the way for structural reforms in the public sector and energy in 2010. But this 
will not be sufficient. Without important external support, the financing of the deficit internally will 
crowd out private investors, generate further currency depreciation and inflation and lead to an 
unsustainable accumulation of high interest debt. Slower growth, rapid inflation and reduced ability to 
Page  2
finance social programs now threaten to reverse the very significant developmental gains recorded in the 
last decade, and to weaken Ghana’s ability to generate broad-based benefits from significant oil 
revenues in the near term.  
The new Government has asked for exceptional and urgent support from the Bank and the IMF
.
A
rapid announcement of an adjustment and reform package, backed by adequate financing from the 
international financial institutions, is now urgently needed to stabilize the financial and foreign exchange 
markets and serve as a partial bridge to the onset of oil production. Parallel to IMF support under the 
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) to stabilize the balance of payment (which is in 
preparation), the proposed two-tranche front-loaded IDA-financed development policy operation in 
CY09 would support government’s actions to bring the budget under control, start addressing the 
structural causes of fiscal imbalances through public sector and energy reforms, and protect the poor. 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The proposed operation 
aims to support the authorities’ efforts, in the midst of the current global 
crisis, to bring their fiscal stance on a sound and sustainable track and to protect the development 
objectives set forth in Ghana’s Second Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS II) for the 
period 2006-2009. 
The GPRS II emphasizes the centrality of private-led growth to reduce poverty, 
along with human development and governance efforts to promote equity. While the EGPRC would 
translate primarily into funding for the GPRS II implementation, particular attention is given to policies 
and actions aimed at (i) restoring budgetary discipline, and (ii) tackling long-standing public sector and 
energy issues, while (iii) protecting the poor. The proposed operation is aligned with the World Bank 
Group’s Country Assistance Strategy objectives for FY08-11 and with the World Bank’s Africa Action 
Plan. 
The proposed operation follows a programmatic series of six Poverty Reduction Support Credits 
(PRSCs) successfully completed over the period 2003-2008.
 Both the urgent need for financial 
assistance, and the current focus of policy makers on fiscal issues make a stand-alone operation a more 
appropriate instrument for Bank support to the authorities at this juncture than an originally planned 
(seventh and last of a series) Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-7). Recent and unforeseen 
developments call for supporting a selected set of actions not considered as priorities before the crisis to 
address crisis-induced imbalances. The two-tranche approach would provide strong signaling to the 
markets and development partners of the new Government’s intentions and commitment to restore fiscal 
sustainability and protect critical developmental objectives at a time when the authorities must cope with 
the impact of the global crisis.  This approach would also provide adequate time to the authorities in 
order to design the next PRSP, which could be supported under the next series of PRSCs.   
The operation is being processed under the IDA Financial Crisis Response Fast-Track Facility.  
The proposed DPO is part of a program of support to Ghana during FY09 that currently implies a 27 
percent front-loading of IDA assistance. This operation would be complemented by a sector (natural 
resources) development policy operation (US$10 million), and two investment projects in transport 
(US$225 million) and rural water (US$15 million). Other operations being prepared for FY10 include an 
IBRD enclave for the gas sector, a sector development policy operation (agriculture), support for the 
development of safety nets, a project in support of the water and sanitation sectors, and a joint initiative 
with partners to support public sector reforms and capacity development. 
3. Preliminary 
description 
The proposed Economic Governance and Poverty Reduction Credit (EGPRC) aims to support the 
authorities’ three-pronged efforts to restore budgetary discipline and tackle long-standing public 
Page  3
sector and energy issues, while protecting the poor.
 Efforts supported by the EGPRC concentrate on 
measures to: 
a. 
establish a treasury single account, improve compliance with the public procurement law, correct 
any budget deviations (fiscal deficit, pro-poor expenditures) through new fiscal measures, 
publish fiscal accounts, and submit to Parliament the Freedom of Information Bill; 
b.  reconstitute the boards of energy related utilities and regulatory authority, adopt an electricity 
sector financial recovery plan, adopt draft legislation on the Ghana Petroleum Regulatory 
Authority and oil and gas fiscal regime, designate a leader in Government for the Public Sector 
Reforms agenda, eliminate ghost workers in health and education services, and classify at least 
half of subvented agencies in preparation for their rationalization, divestiture, or 
commercialization;   
c. 
extend the number of LEAP beneficiaries and review the effectiveness of pro-poor expenditures 
by revising their classification.  
There is a strong macro-economic rationale for providing swift counter-cyclical external financing 
against demonstrated progress on key actions and reforms and a credible adjustment plan
.
Ghana
’s medium term development prospects remain bright, building on past records, strong institutions 
and the promises of oil and democratic dividends. But a pre-requisite is macroeconomic stability, which 
is being hurt by the combination of the current global crisis with inherited pre-existing imbalances. 
Against demonstrated progress on critical actions and a credible adjustment and reform plan, the 
proposed front-loaded assistance would help maintain the development momentum by making the 
needed adjustment less abrupt and more credible, before the expected arrival of oil and the recovery of 
the global environment in 2010-11. 
Measures supported by the proposed operation are expected to have a significant positive and 
direct effect on poverty reduction
.
These include: (i) the protection of pro-poor public expenditures in 
the 2009 budget; (ii) the strengthening of social protection through scaled up and better targeted cash 
transfer programs; and (iii) policy actions aimed at restoring the financial viability of the energy sector, 
which are critical for economic growth and employment creation. The strengthening of public financial 
management is also expected to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of public resources in the 
delivery of social and development services. The envisaged public sector reforms supported by the 
operation do not consider any downsizing (but the elimination of ghost workers) but may affect real 
wages in the public sector. The Government is involving stakeholders (unions in particular) in the design 
of the reform, to which the Bank is providing policy advisory services through the mobilization of high-
level experts. More broadly, the proposed operation will support the macro-economic stabilization 
program, thus reducing the poor’s and near poor’s exposure to macro-economic shocks. 
The proposed operation comprises significant risks, namely
:
ƒ
Potential downside risks from the global macro-economic situation, with implications for GDP 
growth, macro-economic stability and financing prospects (from public and private creditors) for 
Ghana. Delayed oil revenues beyond 2011 would also affect the medium term macro-economic 
framework. Combined with an IMF program, the proposed operation would help mitigate these risks 
by supporting fiscal consolidation measures, providing needed financing and sending a strong signal 
to markets and Development Partners of Ghana’s commitment to bring its fiscal stance to a sound 
and sustainable track;  
Page  4
ƒ
Political feasibility risks related to the fiscal adjustment given the absence of a solid majority in the 
Parliament, and an electoral platform emphasizing the need to improve and broaden public services, 
at a time of fiscal stabilization requirements. The proposed operation would help mitigate some of 
these risks by supporting actions to protect pro-poor expenditures, and generate efficiency gains 
through better procurement and the elimination of ghost workers in the public sector. In addition, the 
operation supports broader sharing of information and consulting with stakeholders to build 
consensus on the design of a fiscally sustainable program of reforms;  
ƒ
Budget execution risks if the public sector wage bill cannot be effectively contained and public 
financial management shortcomings cannot be addressed rapidly. The proposed operation would 
mitigate some of these risks by supporting efforts to improve public financial management, 
implement fiscal contingency measures if required in 2009 and tighten expenditures and hiring 
controls. 
ƒ
Energy-related risks of various natures, including higher oil prices than budgeted and lower rains 
than expected, inducing resort to higher subsidies to the energy sector to cover thermal generation 
costs. The design and rapid adoption of a financial recovery plan in the electricity sector as 
supported by the proposed operation would reduce such risks.  
4. Environment 
Aspects 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed operation are not likely to have a significant 
negative effect
 on the country’s environment and natural resources
.
The supported reforms aim 
primarily at strengthening public financial management and budgetary discipline, raising social 
accountability, and protecting the poor. The electricity sector financial recovery program will look at 
options to restore financial sustainability, without considering expanding generation capacity. More 
generally, the GPRS II builds on Ghana’s robust environmental institutional framework and 
considerable capacities to set environmental management standards. The institutional framework is 
defined by the 1991 National Environmental Policy, the 1992 National Environmental Action Plan, and 
the 1994 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Act. The Government’s agreements under the 2008 
Natural Resource and Environmental Governance (NREG) program build on this framework, and are 
supported by a World Bank programmatic Development Policy Operation.  The NREG Program 
supports institutional reform, including strengthening the budgetary and financing arrangements for 
environmental protection by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), further decentralization of 
services and greater engagement of civil society and local  communities  in  natural  resource  and 
environmental governance.  The EPA has since the late 1980s adopted Environmental Impact 
Assessments (EIAs) as a management tool to screen undertakings likely to pose adverse impact on the 
environment. EIAs became legal in 1999 and are applied to all development projects and programs that 
have the potential to give rise to significant social and environmental impacts. EIAs are mandatory for 
seventeen types of activities classified as critical, including mining, petroleum and gas field 
development and exploration, construction of dams, harbors and roads, and logging and disposal of 
timber. In addition the EPA has been one of the leading users in Africa of Strategic Environment 
Assessment (SEA) as a tool for the assessment of major policies, programs and investments. 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source ($m.) 
IDA Total 
US$300.0 
 
Page  5
Contact Point: Sebastien Dessus 
Title:    
Lead Economist, AFTP4 
Telephone: 202-458-5075 
Fax:  
202-473-8136 
Email:  
sdessus@worldbank.org 
 
