                               .Document of
                             The World Bank




                                               Report No: ICR00001759



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-46340)



                                  ON A

      ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE AND POVERTY REDUCTION CREDIT

                 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 193.8 MILLION
                     (US$300 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                 TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF GHANA

                              March 22, 2011




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
Country Department West Africa 1
Africa Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective as of March 2011)

            Currency Unit   =         Ghana Cedi
            GH¢1            =         US$0.67
            US$1            =         GH¢1.49

                         FISCALY EAR
                     January 1 to December 3 1

                  WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                       Metric System

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BoG      Bank of Ghana
BoP      Balance of Payments
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CEM      Country Economic Memorandum
CPI      Consumer Price Index
CPIA     Country Policy and Institutional Assessment
CSO      Civil Society Organization
DPs      Development Partners
DPO      Development Policy Operation
DSA      Debt Sustainability Analysis
ECG      Electricity Company of Ghana
ECF      Extended Credit Facility
EGPRC    Economic Governance and Poverty Reduction Credit
EMCBP    Economic Management and Capacity Building Project
EITI     Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
GES      Ghana Education Service
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOG      Government of Ghana
GHEITI   Ghana Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
GIFMIS   Ghana Integrated Financial Management and Information System
GNP      Gross National Product
GNPC     Ghana National Petroleum Company
GPRS     Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy
GSGDA    Ghana Shared Growth and Development Agenda
GSS      Ghana Statistical Services
HIPC     Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA      International Development Association
IMF      International Monetary Fund
ISR      Implementation Status Report



                                 ii
LEAP    Livelihood Empowerment Against Poverty
MDAs    Ministries, Departments, and Agencies
MDBS    Multi-Donor Budget Support
MDGs    Millennium Development Goals
MoFEP   Ministry of Finance & Economic Planning
NHIS    National Health Insurance Scheme
NPL     Non Performing Loan
NSPS    National Social Protection Strategy
OC      Operations Committee
PAF     Progress Assessment Framework
PPA     Public Procurement Authority
PRSC    Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRGF    Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PSIA    Poverty and Social Impact Assessment
PURC    Public Utilities Regulatory Commission
SAs     Subvented Agencies
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
TOR     Tema Oil Refinery
TSA     Treasury Single Account
VAT     Value Added Tax
VRA     Volta River Authority




                 Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
               Country Director: Ishac Diwan
                Sector Manager: Miria A. Pigato
              Task Team Leader: Sebastien C. Dessus
               ICR Team Leader Sebastien C. Dessus




                               iii
                                               REPUBLIC OF GHANA

               ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE AND POVERTY REDUCTION CREDIT


                                                      CONTENTS




Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................ 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 4 
3. Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................ 8 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 15 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 16 
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 18 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 18 

List of Annexes

Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................ 20 
Annex 2: Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 21 
Annex 3: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 22 
Annex 4: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 23 
Annex 5: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 35 
Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 36 
Annex 7: Country Map IBRD 33411 ................................................................................ 37 




                                                            iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Economic Governance
Country:                Ghana                   Program Name:             and Poverty Reduction
                                                                          Credit
Program ID:             P113301                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-46340
ICR Date:               03/31/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          GHANA
Original Total
                        XDR 193.8M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 193.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 193.8M
Implementing Agencies:
 FSD, MOFEP
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/16/2009     Effectiveness:             07/16/2009        07/16/2009
Appraisal:            05/28/2009     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/30/2009     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2010        06/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                    Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                                Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     66                  66
General energy sector                                                 17                  17
Other social services                                                 17                  17


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               17                  17
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                             17                  17
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                      32                  32
procurement
Rural policies and institutions                                       17                  17
Social safety nets                                                    17                  17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Ishac Diwan                          Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:            Miria A. Pigato                      Miria A. Pigato
Program Team Leader:       Sebastien C. Dessus                  Sebastien C. Dessus
ICR Team Leader:           Sebastien C. Dessus
ICR Primary Author:        Sati Achath




                                                 ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The EGPRC aimed to support the authorities' three-pronged efforts to: (i) restore
budgetary discipline; (ii) tackle long-standing public sector and energy issues; and (iii)
protecting the poor.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target     Formally      Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                  approval         Target       Completion or
                                                documents)         Values       Target Years
                   reduced cash fiscal deficit as percentage of GDP between 2008 and 2009
Indicator 1 :      (budget deviation as measured by the ratio of actual over budgeted fiscal
                   deficit).
Value
(quantitative or   Full-Year : 2.60        Full-Year : 1.00                   Full-Year: 1.056
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008              12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments
                   The actual cash defict was 5.6 percent higher than that budgeted. This
(incl. %
                   coresponded to 0.2 percentage point of GDP deviation.
achievement)
                   Increased share of pro poor expenditure in total public expenditure between
Indicator 2 :
                   2008 and 2009 (ratio of actual over budgeted)
Value
(quantitative or   Full-Year: 0.91         Full-Year: 0.95                    Full-Year: 0.99
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008              12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments
                   The proportion of pro-poor expenditure in total expenditure exceeded the
(incl. %
                   target.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Increased share of public transactions complying with public procurement law
Value
(quantitative or   70 percent              80 percent                         97.55 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008              12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments
                   The proportion of public transactions complying with the public procurement
(incl. %
                   law exceeded the target.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Comprehensive and detailed fiscal account for 2009 available on internet.
Value              No fiscal account         Comprehensive                   Comprehensive and
(quantitative or   available on the internet and detailed fiscal             detailed fiscal


                                                iii
Qualitative)                                account for 2009                    account available
                                            available on                        on internet
                                            internet
Date achieved      05/31/2009               12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments
                   Fiscal accounts (actual outturns, economic classification) were made available
(incl. %
                   on the internet, in a detailed and user-friendly form.
achievement)
                   Net Hiring Freeze in the public sector, excluding trainees in education and
Indicator 5 :
                   health
                                            455,000 public                      492,774 public
Value                                       sector employees                    sector employees
                   455,000 public sector
(quantitative or                            (excluding trainees                 (excluding trainees
                   employees
Qualitative)                                in education and                    in education and
                                            health)                             health)
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments           The baseline value and thus the target proved ex post to be erroneous. Ex post
(incl. %           new calculations suggest a net increase of 8954 employees, or a 2 percent
achievement)       deviation from the target.
                   Satisfactory budget execution of item 1 (personal emoluments), ratio actual
Indicator 6 :
                   over budget expenditures
Value
(quantitative or   Full-Year: 1.27          Full-Year : 1.00                    Full-Year: 0.98
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008               03/22/2011                          12/31/2009
Comments
                   Budget execution of item 1 was satisfactory, as within budget ceilings and
(incl. %
                   close to it.
achievement)
                   Operations accounts of VRA and ECG improved (ratio of operation costs over
Indicator 7 :
                   operation revenues)
Value
                   VRA =1.13                VRA < 1.13                          VRA =0.99
(quantitative or
                   ECG = 0.95               ECG < 0.95                          ECG = 1.03
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008             12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments           VRA operations accounts strongly improved, as electricity generation costs
(incl. %           dropped while ECG operations account slightly deteriorated, in the absence of
achievement)       tariff adjustments (VRA/ECG) before 12/31/20
Indicator 8 :      Reduced public subsidies to the operations of the energy sector
Value
                                            0.0 percent of
(quantitative or   1.5 percent of GDP                                           0.2 percent of GDP
                                            GDP
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008                 12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
                   The baseline and target erroneously included the lifeline program and safety
Comments
                   nets for petroleum deregulation. Excluding these two categories, public
(incl. %
                   subsidies to the electricity sector were fully eliminated and thus brought to 0.0
achievement)
                   % of GDP
Indicator 9 :      Increased number of LEAP beneficiary households after June 2008
Value                                         > 1,842                            17,065
                   1,842 households
(quantitative or                              households                         households



                                                 iv
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/30/2008                06/30/2009                       12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %           The number of LEAP beneficiaries largely exceeded the target.
achievement)
                   Measure of pro- poor expenditure in 2009 budget after re-classification posted
Indicator 10 :
                   on the MOFEP website; revised classification used in budget 2010.
                                          Measure posted                     Measure posted
                                          after                              after
Value                                     reclassification for               reclassification for
(quantitative or   n.a.                   the fiscal year                    the fiscal year
Qualitative)                              2009; revised                      2009; revised
                                          classification used                classification used
                                          for budget 2010                    for budget 2010
Date achieved      12/31/2008             12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments
                   The measure was posted, the classification revised and used for the budget
(incl. %
                   2010.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                               Values (from                      Achieved at
      Indicator        Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                 approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                       Target Years



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP               Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1      12/14/2009           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 151.03
  2      06/29/2010           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 294.40


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                 v
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

     Political and macroeconomic situation. In January 2009, after a two-round
election, a new President from the opposition party (National Democratic Congress,
NDC) was elected in Ghana. Legislative elections held during the same process also gave
the largest number of seats to the opposition party, yet not enough to enjoy an absolute
majority in Parliament.

As taking power in February, the Government discovered and inherited a very
challenging macro-economic situation: inflation was rampant (around 20 percent year-
on-year), the exchange rate was depreciating fast (5 percent per month since July 2008
against the US$), and foreign currency reserves were at their lower levels since 2003, 2.2
months of imports The public deficit, on a cash basis was estimated at 15 percent of
GDP, and believed to be much higher once included public expenditure arrears for which
information was only emerging (in retrospect, the commitment deficit was at 22 percent
of GDP by end-2008). Meanwhile, an unprecedented major financial crisis was unfolding
in the World, adding to uncertainties surrounding Ghana’s economic outlook, and
Members of the Parliament, during its first session, declared the country “broke?.
Economic agents and citizens, who had been enjoying rapid economic growth in 2008,
were caught by surprise, suddenly realizing the unsustainable stance of the economy. The
lost of trust in the economic information system and doubts about the capacity of the new
administration to rapidly tackle the problem probably contributed to the continued
depreciation of the Ghana Cedi in the first half of 2009.

In spite of the global crisis, large domestic demand pressures, fuelled by expansionary
fiscal and monetary policies, were considered to be at the origin of the crisis. On a
commitment basis (that is, by including net arrears contracted over the year), public
expenditure rose by 55 percent in 2008. In the same year, credit to the private sector rose
by 48 percent. These demand pressures were to some extent caused by a series of
negative exogenous shocks in 2008, including: commodity price increases which pressed
the Government to (i) reduce import taxes on food products, and, (ii) raise subsidies to
utilities to offset oil prices increases in the absence of cost-recovery mechanisms through
electricity tariff adjustment. Others are floods and the energy crisis in 2007, which
prompted the Government to undertake large investments to respond to emergency needs
of the country. But these were also reflecting ongoing structural trends of fiscal
expansion, in recurrent expenditures in particular (e.g. rapid growth in the public sector
wage bill, pervasive subsidies to energy utilities, public financial management
weaknesses).

     Rationale for Bank assistance. Initially conceived as the final Poverty Reduction
Support Credit (PRSC7) of a programmatic series of four, based on a policy matrix
(Progress Assessment Framework, PAF) agreed between the Government and
Development Partners in March 2008, the operation – renamed EGPRC – was
substantively modified during the Spring of 2009 to address the important fiscal and
macroeconomic challenges not foreseen a year before, at the request of Ghanaian
Authorities. Thus, using the Financial Crisis Response Fast-Track Facility, the World
Bank decided to triple the amount of the operation (from US$100 to US$300 million,
through front-loading of IDA15 resource) in support of Government efforts to
immediately address the structural causes of fiscal imbalances. With oil forthcoming as
of late 2010, the operation was also seen as a counter-cyclical effort to protect past
poverty reduction achievements and Ghana’s medium term bright development prospects.
The operation was conceived in parallel to an IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility (thereafter renamed Extended Credit Facility).

     EGPRC Design. The EGPRC was a more focused operation than the broader set
of reforms supported by the MDBS, principally aiming to provide support for the fiscal
consolidation and structural measures needed to address the severity of the
macroeconomic situation, mostly originating from domestic causes, while protecting the
poor. A two-tranche operation was selected for maximizing the signaling effect of
Government’s commitment for reform while accounting for implementation constraints in the
very short term.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The EGPRC aimed to support the authorities’ three-pronged efforts to: (i) restore
budgetary discipline; (ii) tackle long-standing public sector and energy issues; and (iii)
protecting the poor.

Key Indicators as approved were: (i) budget deviations for 2009; (ii) pro-poor
expenditures for 2009; (iii) share of transactions complying with the Public Procurement
Law in 2008; (iv) availability of comprehensive and detailed fiscal accounts on the
Internet; (v) number of public sector employees; (vi) electricity utilities operation
accounts; (vii) public subsidies to the energy
sector as % of GDP; and (viii) number of regular Livelihood Empowerment Against
Poverty (LEAP) beneficiaries.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification
The PDOs were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)
The EGPRC focused on the following activities:

(i) Restoring Budgetary Discipline.
       This involved improving public financial management and promoting social
        accountability and transparency. Activities included: re-establishing control
        over expenditures, generating more revenue and efficiency gains, better budget



                                            2
       planning, and providing an enabling environment for transparency and
       accountability.

(ii) Tackling Long-standing Public Sector and Energy Issues.
      Public Sector Reform. The main objective of the reform was to link public sector
       pay to: productivity; position and qualification; maintain the competitiveness of
       public sector incomes relative to the private sector; and determine the optimal
       number of employees needed to effectively deliver public services.
      Energy. Government would continue to implement the Power Sector reforms by
       providing a comprehensive financial recovery plan for the utility companies
       which would facilitate the transformation of the power sector into a financially
       viable and sustainable electricity industry. The Electricity Sector Financial
       Recovery Plan (including treatment of debts and commitment to periodic
       adjustment of tariffs) was expected to help the sector achieve financial
       sustainability and improve efficiency. When completed, the Plan would be
       subjected to stakeholder consultations and submitted to Cabinet for deliberation
       and formal approval.

(iii) Protecting the Poor.
      Social Protection. The EGPRC supported the Government’s measures aimed at
       protecting key developmental objectives while undertaking policy and
       institutional reforms to strengthen existing social protection mechanisms, in order
       to mitigate future risks of the crisis disproportionately affecting the poor and
       vulnerable. These measures were being carried out under the coordination of the
       National Social Protection Strategy (NSPS) which was published in March 2007
       with the goal of “providing policy direction in the protection of persons living in
       situations of extreme poverty, vulnerability and exclusion from both expected and
       unexpected threats to their livelihoods, with a view to making them effective
       participants in the socioeconomic development of the country.?

1.5 Revised Policy Areas

The policy areas were not revised.

1.6 Other significant changes

There were no changes in the operation’s design, scope and scale, schedule, and
implementation arrangements. However, there was a waiver of one prior action for the
release of the second tranche as mentioned below:

Government’s request to waive one condition for the second tranche release related to the
requirement for Cabinet approval of the legislation concerning the proposed Ghana
Petroleum Regulatory Authority and oil and gas fiscal regime. The Government decision
to eventually partition the regulatory framework into various legal building blocks to give



                                            3
greater space for consultations among the various stakeholders was considered legitimate and
justified given the sensitive political economy of resource management in Ghana.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

The Board approved the two-tranche Credit of SDR 193.8 million (US$300 million
equivalent) on June 30, 2009 to support the Government of Ghana’s second Growth and
Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS II). Following the Board approval, the Financing
Agreement for EGPRC was signed on July 15, 2009 by the Borrower and the IDA. The
Credit was declared effective on July 16, 2009.

The first tranche of US$151 million equivalent was disbursed on the day of effectiveness,
on the basis of completion of the following select list of prior actions by the Recipient:
      Opened a single treasury account in the Bank of Ghana and has identified the
       Ministries, Departments, and Agencies’ (MDAs’) accounts to be connected to the
       said account
      Ensured that at least 80 percent of the total number of procurement contracts
       processed in 2008 by MDAs covered in the Public Procurement Authority (PPA)
       survey sample have followed procurement methods and procedures compliant
       with the Recipient’s Public Procurement Act
      Begun regular publication of comprehensive and detailed quarterly fiscal out-
       turns with no more than one quarter lag
      Implemented a net hiring freeze in the public sector (excluding trainees in
       education and health) through the completion of an employment audit and the
       elimination of ghost workers from the payroll of the Ghana Health Service, and
       the approval of all MDAs hiring decisions by the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance
       and Economic Planning and the Office of the Head of Civil Service
      Reconstituted the boards of Volta River Authority (VRA), Electricity Company of
       Ghana (ECG), Ghana National Petroleum Company (GNPC), Tema Oil Refinery
       (TOR), and the Public Utilities Regulatory Commission (PURC)
      Increased the number of households covered by the LEAP since June 2008

The second tranche of US$143 million was disbursed in June 2010 on the basis of
completion of the following actions by the Recipient:
      Took contingency fiscal measures, once the public wage rate increase for 2009
       has been established, to correct any deviations with respect to the fiscal deficit
       and the share of pro-poor expenditures targets set forth in the Recipient’s 2009
       budget
      Submitted to Parliament a Freedom of Information Bill and, if approved, has
       adopted a related implementation plan including a budget



                                             4
      Appointed a Minister of State in charge of public sector reform, and eliminated
       ghost workers from payroll in the Ghana Education Service (GES), initiated
       employment audits in all remaining MDAs, and classified at least half of the total
       number of SA in preparation for their rationalization, divestiture or
       commercialization
      Completed, through the Ministry of Energy, consultations with stakeholders on an
       electricity sector financial recovery plan and, through the Cabinet, approved the
       said plan
      Revised the classification of pro-poor public expenditures based on an assessment
       of their effective impact on poverty, for use in the Recipient’s 2010 budget, in
       accordance with the provisions of paragraph 72 of the Letter of Development
       Policy

As mentioned in Section 1.6, the condition related to the requirement for Cabinet
approval of the legislation concerning the proposed Ghana Petroleum Regulatory
Authority and oil and gas fiscal regime was waived for the release of the second tranche.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

Positive factors

The implementation of the EGPRC was positively affected by various factors. For
example:
      The Government was highly committed to the operation. The Government
       publically recognized the seriousness of the macro-economic situation and put it
       on top of its agenda just after its inception, by asking for exceptional and urgent
       support from the Bank and the IMF. Further, it took bold austerity measures in
       2009 and 2010 to bring Ghana’s fiscal stance onto a sound and sustainable track
       and protect the development objectives set forth in Ghana’s Second Growth and
       Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS II).
      There was adequate stakeholder involvement. For example, the operation was
       prepared in close coordination with the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The
       IMF and Bank teams collaborated closely, through joint missions between
       February and May 2009, to prepare both the EGPRC and PRGF. In addition, the
       EGPRC design benefited from important contributions from MDBS DPs (e.g
       public financial management, public sector reform, social protection). Further, the
       content of the EGPRC was discussed with members of the Parliament and civil
       society organizations (CSOs) in order to re-enforce ownership. The consultations
       discussed the need and design of the Government fiscal adjustment strategy, as
       well as the need to protect the poor during this period while preserving the gains
       of the past.
      The design of the operation was strengthened because of a series of economic and
       social analyses, such as the Bank’s 2007 Country Economic Memorandum
       (CEM); External Reviews of Public Financial Management conducted in 2007


                                            5
       and 2009; and IMF’s macro-economic analyses. Further, lessons learned from
       previous development policy operations were considered while designing the
       operation. Likewise, risks were identified at appraisal and appropriate mitigation
       measures were incorporated into the design.

Negative factors.

The following factors had affected the smooth implementation of the operation:
      There was an unexpected delay of about seven months in the release of the second
       tranche because of the time needed on the part of the Government to fulfill some
       of the prior actions. For example, finalization of contract for consultation to
       undertake classification for Subvented Agencies (SAs) was delayed. Likewise,
       head count for identifying ghost workers in GES took longer than expected
       because teachers were spread across the country and it was difficult to contact all
       of them within a short period of three or four months. Lack of inter-ministerial
       coordination capacity – between MoFEP and the Ministry of Energy – also
       contributed to delaying the fulfillment of some prior actions – such as the
       Electricity Financial Recovery Plan for instance.
      The release of the second tranche was also delayed due to the Government’s
       decision to revise its initial plans regarding the establishment of a comprehensive
       oil and gas institutional framework. Public consultations held on the legislation
       raised fundamental issues of ownership, participation and control, roles,
       responsibilities and accountability, legitimacy and capacity of institutions that
       underpin effective performance of such a green field sector in the Ghanaian
       economy, and it became apparent that a more comprehensive multiple legal
       framework would be needed. The better understanding of the emerging oil and
       gas political economy eventually justified waiving a release condition in the
       EGPRC second tranche.
      The discovery of large public expenditure arrears during the course of the
       operation, and their impact on non performing loans, muted the impact of lower
       Government financing needs on banks credit to the private sector. In other words,
       the crowding in effect of lower financing needs was less than anticipated.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

M&E design. The MoFEP was responsible for the overall implementation of the
EGPRC. Bank supervision was aligned with the Government’s monitoring and evaluation
of the GPRS II and the activities of other donors, focusing on the year-long verification
process that monitors the implementation of the policies being supported by the EGPRC.

During the period of implementation, a series of reports would assist in monitoring
progress: (i) yearly reports on macroeconomic developments, assessing progress in the
implementation of the framework agreed between the Government, the IMF, the Bank
and the MDBS; (ii) monthly reports on budget expenditures with breakdown by MDAs
with a lag of no more than six weeks after the end of each month, and with the


                                            6
breakdown for Items 1-4 of the Ghanaian budget (personnel, administration, services,
investment); (iii) quarterly reports on domestically financed poverty-related expenditures;
(iv) official documents (memoranda, gazette) to support the verification of effective
policy decisions, and (v) quarterly fiscal reports made available to the public.

M&E implementation. Monitoring and evaluation activities were carried out by the task
team in partnership with the MoFEP, on the basis of the agreed-upon indicators, for
which results were already measurable. For example, the task team reviewed the
progress on institutional framework for LEAP and reviewed macroeconomic situation in
terms of budget support and policy actions. Likewise the team monitored the progress of
governance and energy-related prior actions.

M&E utilization. Appropriate data collected by the Government on the indicators was
evaluated and used during supervision missions, and also for decision making. For
example, the second tranche was released based on the reports that prior actions have
been satisfactorily met by the Government. Further, the Bank used the data on
macroeconomic stability, poverty, utilities tariff, energy sector and financial sector for
preparing the follow-up operation, PRSC7.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

The Bank is continuing to provide support in the domains covered under the EGPRC.
The Bank approved and disbursed in January and February 2011 respectively, a one-
tranche Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC7) for US$215 million
equivalent to the Republic of Ghana. This first DPO of a series of two (PRSC7 and
PRSC8) supports the authorities’ efforts to consolidate ongoing fiscal stabilization efforts
and protect the development objectives set in the Ghana Shared Growth and
Development Agenda (GSGDA) for 2010-2013. Specifically, the PRSC7 supports
continuing and deepening policy reforms initiated in 2009 to: (i) restore budgetary
discipline; (ii) tackle long-standing public sector and energy issues; (iii) protect the poor;
and (iv) prepare for the oil era.

Further, on transparency, additional financing to the e-Ghana project will support the
development of the Ghana Integrated Financial Management Information System. On
public sector reform, the EMCBP will support the rationalisation of SAs. On social
protection, the social opportunities project will support the development of solid social
safety nets. And the next general DPO scheduled in FY11 will continue to support cross-
cutting policy reforms on public financial management, electricity, public sector reform,
and social protection.




                                              7
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives of the EGPRC are still important to the country’s economic development.
They are also timely and appropriate to the needs of Ghana. These objectives are in line
with the development objectives set in the GSGDA for 2010-2013. The GSGDA
emphasizes the need for macroeconomic stabilization and greater executive efficiency,
transparency and accountability to provide the adequate setting for the reduction of
poverty and socio-economic inequalities through agricultural, private sector,
infrastructure and human resource development. They are also aligned with the recently
updated Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives for FY08-121 and with the Bank’s
Africa Action Plan.

Rating: Highly relevant.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
Satisfactory. The EGPRC was successful in achieving its objectives. Efforts supported by
the operation concentrated on measures to improve public financial management, raise
fiscal transparency, restore financial viability in the electricity sector, prepare for oil
through the adoption of regulatory and fiscal frameworks, regain control on public sector
labor force and rationalize SAs, and expand and improve social protection. The program
has contributed to significant macroeconomic stabilization progress in Ghana. For
example:

       The rapid depreciation of the Ghana Cedi was halted in the week following the
        Board approval of the EGPRC, and started to appreciate in the week when the
        first tranche was disbursed. Since, the exchange rate of the Ghana Cedi against
        the US$ has shown great stability, oscillating between 1.4 and 1.5 Ghana Cedi per
        US$ between July 2009 and March 2011.




1
 International Development Association Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for the Republic of
Ghana, Report No. 52988-GH, March 1, 2010, The World Bank, Washington D.C.


                                                   8
                             Ghana Cedi: US Dollar Exchange Rate
               1.6

               1.5

               1.4

               1.3                                 EGPRC Board Approval 
                                                   and first tranche 
               1.2                                 disbursment

               1.1

                1

               0.9

               0.8
                     2007M01
                     2007M03
                     2007M05
                     2007M07
                     2007M09
                     2007M11
                     2008M01
                     2008M03
                     2008M05
                     2008M07
                     2008M09
                     2008M11
                     2009M01
                     2009M03
                     2009M05
                     2009M07
                     2009M09
                     2009M11
                     2010M01
                     2010M03
                     2010M05
                     2010M07
                     2010M09
                     2010M11
      Consumer price inflation also started to decelerate in the month following the
       Board approval of the EGPRC, to reach single digit levels in the second half of
       2010 and stay at this level since.
      Fiscal and current account deficits were strongly reduced between 2008 and 2010,
       and foreign currency reserves replenished. Using new GDP numbers released in
       November 2010 (not known at the time of the EGPRC design), the fiscal deficit
       on a cash basis, before arrears repayment, went down from 7.9 to 6.1 percent of
       GDP between 2008 and 2010. The current account deficit went down over the
       same period from 10.8 to 4.7 percent of GDP. Foreign currency reserves grew by
       US$2.7 billion between December 2008 and December 2010, to represent 3.3
       months of imports.
      Yet, in spite of consolidation efforts, GDP growth remained robust, at 4.7 and 5.7
       percent in real terms in 2009 and 2010 respectively.

Other achievements of EGPRC are as follows:

Objective 1: Restoring budgetary discipline.

Under this objective, the Government has:

(i) Public Financial Management
      opened a treasury single account (TSA) in the Bank of Ghana and has identified
       the accounts of MDAs to be connected to the said account. This has been done in
       order to enhance control by ensuring that all MDAs’ cash balances are known at
       all times, as well as to save on short term financial charges by managing liquidity
       better. The effective linkage of MDAs’ bank accounts to the TSA and the


                                             9
       facilitation training of public servants has commenced in 2010. There is already a
       letter of agreement signed between the Governor of the Bank of Ghana and the
       Minister of Finance on the strategy to be adopted and the implementation plan to
       enable total coverage of all public finances under a TSA framework by 2011.
      ensured that at least 80 percent of the total number of procurement contracts
       processed in 2008 by MDAs covered in the Public Procurement Authority survey
       sample (which covers 80 percent of total MDAs transactions in value) have
       followed procurement methods and procedures compliant with the Recipient’s
       Public Procurement Act. For example, the share of public transactions complying
       with public procurement law has increased from 70 percent in December 2007 to
       97 percent in December 2008.

(ii) Transparency and Accountability
      begun regular publication of comprehensive and detailed quarterly fiscal out-turns
       reports, on a regular basis and in a user-friendly manner (through the MoFEP
       website).
      submitted the Freedom of Information Bill to Parliament in January 2010. This
       Bill, which has been long awaited in Ghana, could become the basis for an
       evolving environment based on transparency and accountability in Ghana. The
       implementation of the Freedom of Information Act will require careful support of
       both the infrastructure of, for example, the archiving function of the public
       services, as well as the capacity of individual MDAs to provide and respond to
       requests for information on a regular basis.
      extended EITI to the Oil and Gas sector in 2010. After a number of consultations
       with stakeholders, including the Ghana Extractive Industries Transparency
       Initiative (GHEITI) Steering Committee, Parliamentarians, the MoEFP, and the
       Ministry of Energy, an amplified proposal of the GHEITI structure in country was
       submitted to and approved by Cabinet. This process has resulted in the inclusion
       of new members from the Ministry of Energy, GNPC, oil companies, CSO and
       districts assemblies’ representatives from the oil finds areas.
      reinvigorated Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee in its capacity to
       publically review, discuss and follow up on Auditor’s General reports on
       Government’s accounts and use of public financial resource.

Achievement of the first objective is satisfactory


Objective 2: Tackling long-standing public sector and energy issues.

Under this objective, the Government has:

Public sector issues:
      instructed all MDAs and Subvented Agencies to implement the net freeze in the
       public sector (excluding the absorption of trainees in education and health, 8,919


                                             10
       in 2009) through the respect of hiring decisions taken by MoEFP and the Office
       of the Head of Civil Service. Nonetheless, data from the Controller and
       Accountant General (CAGD), Integrated Personnel Payroll-2 (IPPD2) indicates
       an increase from 385,518 to 403,391 staff between December, 2008 and
       December, 2009. Sub vented Agencies were about 92,039 in 2008 but the 2009
       staff number could not be verified. Assuming that SA numbers are unchanged,
       the net freeze has therefore not been fully in force (as implying a net increase in
       the public labor force of 8,954 employees, after accounting for trainees’
       absorption).
      successfully concluded wage negotiations with organized labor in July 2009, and
       with the health sector group in July 2009. Agreements reached on wage increases
       for the whole public sector for the year 2009 were within budget appropriations.
      appointed in October 2009 a Minister of State to lead the public sector reform
       agenda. The Minister, with his location in the Presidency, has the potential to
       build a far-reaching reform agenda, across all agencies.
      initiated the headcount of all public sector workers (in education and health), with
       a view to conclude it in the first quarter of 2010. In March 2010, the MoEFP
       instructed the Controller and Auditor General Department and the Ministry of
       Education to immediately withhold the salary payment of all 2,383 identified
       ghost workers in the GES.
      completed a definitive roll of SAs, and a categorization of said agencies as
       follows: (a) the SAs that would stay on Government subvention for the
       foreseeable future; and (b) the SAs that would be analyzed for a decision
       regarding their closure, withdrawal from Government subvention, partial
       commercialization, or full commercialization.

Energy issues:
      submitted a Petroleum Revenue Management Bill in 2010 to the Cabinet based on
       broad consultations with stakeholders. The Bill was subsequently adopted by
       Cabinet, submitted to and approved by Parliament. The law provides: (a) a strong
       framework for the collection and management of oil and gas revenue; (b) a clear
       system of controls for the collection of oil revenues and their allocation to the
       budget and the proposed stabilization and heritage funds; (c) a clear division of
       responsibilities among authorities, reasonable rules for managing the investments
       of the funds; and (d) strong oversight and transparency provisions. The law
       retains the principles that all petroleum revenue from upstream and midstream
       activities will be collected in a single account at the Bank of Ghana (BoG) and
       will be accounted for in the budget; that the maximum annual budget funding
       amount will be determined by law based on a pre-identified benchmark revenue;
       that once in the budget, petroleum income will be treated just as the same as any
       other Government income. The law also foresees the establishment of a
       stabilization fund and a heritage fund (whose resource are to be invested in
       qualifying instruments abroad), both to be governed by law, and overseen by the
       Parliament.


                                           11
       decided to sequence the effort to build a regulatory framework for the oil and gas
        industry in two stages: (i) amending the existing petroleum exploration and
        production legislation; and (ii) building new regulatory authority for the upstream
        oil and gas industry. The Government, through the Petroleum Exploration and
        Production Bill submitted to Parliament in July 2010, has proposed to revise the
        existing legislation providing for creation of a petroleum regulatory authority with
        statutory powers covering certain technical aspects of regulation, and intends
        accordingly, through the Ministry of Energy, to submit in 2011 to Cabinet for
        decision a policy proposal establishing a petroleum regulatory authority. The
        policy proposal, once approved by Cabinet, will be subject to broad and
        meaningful public consultations with interested parties (including CSOs), with a
        view to build a solid consensus on regulatory aspects. The proposal would specify
        financial and human resources needed to build such an authority.
       reconstituted the boards of VRA, ECG, GNPC, TOR and PURC. The constitution
        of these boards reflects greater emphasis on managerial and technical competence
        among Board appointees, with the aim of restoring greater autonomy to these
        entities and a more commercially minded approach to their operations. The
        reconstitution of the board of utilities and the regulatory authority is also an
        essential condition for implementing the electricity sector financial recovery plan
        and thus for improving utilities’ operations accounts and reducing the need for
        related public subsidies.
       enacted, as part of its efforts to restore the financial restoring the financial
        viability of the electricity sector, Public Utilities Regulatory Commission (PURC)
        ruling to increase residential tariffs by an average of 27 percent with effect from
        June 1, 2010, compared with that of November 2007, date at which tariffs were
        last modified. 2 Tariffs for users consuming less than 50 kWh per month were
        nonetheless left unchanged. As a result, public subsidies to the operations of the
        electricity sector have been reduced from 1.2 percent of GDP (excluding the
        lifeline program) in December 2008 to 0.0 percent of GDP in the second half of
        2010.

Achievement of the second objective is satisfactory.


Objective 3: Protecting the poor.

Achievements under this objective include the following:
       In 2009, pro-poor public expenditures were protected, in spite of the strong public
        expenditure contraction. Although declining in proportion of GDP compared with
        2008, from 5.3 to 5.0 percent, pro-poor expenditures3 were protected in 2009 in


2
  Between November 2007 and May 2010, the consumer price index computed and reported by the GSS
rose by 50.3 percent.
3
  Poverty related expenditures include the following expenditures from the Appropriation Act: (i)
Education – non-formal education, pre-school, basic education, technical & vocational education, teacher


                                                  12
         relation to total public expenditures (excluding donor-financed capital
         expenditures), at 28.2 percent, exceeding both the end-year target (26.0 percent)
         and the achievement of 2008 (24.6 percent). In 2009, the Government also
         reviewed its classification of pro-poor expenditures, and concluded to the need to
         maintain it, for the sake of time consistency, while at the same time highlighting
         the targeting efficiency (or lack thereof) of the various pro-poor spending
         categories. The review also allowed the identification of gaps and shortcoming in
         the reporting and computation of pro-poor expenditures, which were both
         corrected. As for 2010, the Government budgeted 24 percent of its total
         expenditure to poverty reduction, and spent the equivalent of 23.5 percent of its
         total expenditure in the first nine months. The Budget 2011 foresees that 24.3
         percent of public expenditure will be spent for poverty reduction.
        The LEAP4 program was also extended. By December 2009 there were 17,000
         households registered as LEAP regular beneficiaries and receiving cash subsidies
         accordingly, against 8,000 by end-2008. By September 2010, there were 45,000
         households registered.

Achievement of the third objective is satisfactory.


3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

As discussed in Section 3.1, the objectives of the EGPRC remain highly relevant to
Ghana’s current priorities and the Bank’s CAS. Further, as discussed in Section 3.2, the
operation contributed to strengthening the Government’s macroeconomic and fiscal
management, implementing key actions underpinning Ghana’s long-term growth and
competitiveness, and improving efficiency, accountability and transparency in public
finance management, and thus the overall outcome is rated as satisfactory.



training, and education management and supervision, plus a fraction of the expenditures on special
education (90 percent), general administration (50 percent), etc ; (ii) Health – district health services,
regional public health expenditures, oncology expenditures, funding for the International Red Cross, and
health learning materials, plus a fraction of the expenditures on regional health support services (50
percent), psychiatric hospital (50 percent), regional clinical care (50 percent), health training institutions
(70 percent), institutional care (60 percent), etc; (iii) Agriculture – crop services provided through the
regional agriculture development units and projects funded by IDA; (iv) Works and Housing – the
community water and sanitation, rural housing and rural hydrological drainage; (v) Feeder Roads and
Transport – feeder roads and road safety; (vi) Energy – rural electrification programs; and (vii) Other –
national vocational training, social welfare programs, etc.
4
  The LEAP is a cash transfer program that targets orphans and vulnerable children through their caregivers,
the aged (above 65 years and without subsistence or support) and persons with severe disabilities without
productive capacities. LEAP provides conditional and unconditional subsistence grants on a graduated
payment scale of GH¢ 8-15 per month to beneficiaries (depending on the number of dependents). The
LEAP program is vertically well targeted (reaches poor households in areas it works), with an estimated 57
percent share of outlays reaching the poor.


                                                     13
3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty impact: The EGPRC supported the Government’s efforts to protect pro-poor
spending in education, health, agriculture, rural electrification, water and sanitation, and
social protection, and expand safety nets for the poorest and most vulnerable. EGPRC
also supported the Government’s intention to review the pro-poor efficiency and
effectiveness of these expenditures with a view to prioritize them in the 2010 budget. For
details see Section 3.2

Gender Aspects: There was no impact on gender aspects.

Social Development: A major share of EGPRC was spent on education and health, which
in turn will contribute to social development. In addition, part of the budget support has
also gone to district assemblies for implementing social programs.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The operation contributed to institutional strengthening as demonstrated by the following:
      Reconstitution of the Boards of VRA, ECG, GNPC, TOR and PURC
      Appointment of the Minister of State to lead the public sector reform agenda
      The Government has submitted to the Parliament the: (i) Freedom of Information
       Bill in January 2010 for improving transparency and accountability in public
       financial management in Ghana; (ii) Petroleum Revenue Management Bill in July
       2010 for providing a strong framework for the collection and management of oil
       and gas revenue.

For details see Section 3.2

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

Positive
      The Bank did not expect such a large signaling effect on the exchange rate.
      Even though the EGPRC had affected donor harmonization process in the short
       term, and there was cynicism about the Bank’s approach, it is now recognized by
       the DPs that flexibility is needed when there is an emergency to deal with the
       deteriorating macroeconomic situation in Ghana. This awareness has resulted in
       strengthening the MDBS PAF for the follow-on operation, which was fully re-
       aligned to the MDBS, as the latter became more focused on strategic issues. Rules to
       increase flexibility were also identified by MDBS partners, Government and DPs.
      The EGPRC has led to the Bank and the Government to realize that there is an
       urgent need to strengthen the records management for improving transparency
       and accountability. Accordingly, the Bank is currently working with Government


                                             14
       for strengthening records management, and a pilot has been initiated in the
       Ministry of Energy, Ministry of Information, the Office of Attorney General, and
       three District Assemblies.
      The operation has resulted in the Bank’s involvement not only on technical
       matters but also into regulations in the oil and gas sector.
      The important role that CSOs can play for strengthening good governance has
       been demonstrated by the EGPRC.

Negative
      The Bank had not anticipated the extent of negative reaction from the DPs to the
       Bank’s decision to move out of the harmonized MDBS framework to deal with
       Ghana’s macroeconomic crisis, in spite of the fact that MDBS representatives at
       the Executive Board of Directors all supported the content of the operation.
      The EGPRC was perceived as a fast-track operation to provide urgently needed
       funding to resolve the country’s macroeconomic crisis. In reality, however, due to
       seven month delay in disbursing the second tranche, the Government had to resort
       to greater domestic financing than initially budgeted for. This however did not
       crowd out private investment given the difficulty of banks to extend credit to the
       private sector in the face of large NPLs which needed to be provisioned. It did, on
       the other hand, raise debt service.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

Many of the achievements of the EGPRC are highly sustainable. For example:
      Subvented Agencies Law enacted by the Parliament would make it difficult for
       the Government to create new SAs, as the Government has to pass through a
       rigorous process to justify their creation.
      The Government together with the Bank and DPs is committed to strengthening
       IFMS, which will improve payroll management. This in turn would minimize the
       creation of ghost workers.
      By strengthening external accountability mechanism through the involvement of
       CSOs, transparency and accountability would improve.
      The financial sustainability of utilities is ensured by the automatic adjustment of
       electricity tariff every quarter. This is a big breakthrough for avoiding an erosion
       in tariff due to devaluation or inflation.




                                           15
      The two Petroleum Bills, after their enactment, are expected to be relevant for at
       least the next 20 years.
      Improved debt sustainability of Ghana will be an important factor for
       macroeconomic sustainability.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in the preparation of the operation was satisfactory. In
collaboration with IMF and DPs, and based on a robust body of analytical evidence, the
preparation process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in the
macroeconomic, public financial management, energy, and social sectors. The EGPRC’s
objectives were consistent with the Government’s development priorities and the CAS.
During preparation, the Bank assessed the operation’s risks and benefits; and
incorporated lessons learned from earlier operations into the design. Also, the operation
supported selected reforms in the Government’s program and the list of prior actions
included reforms that were deemed essential to its successful implementation.

On the other hand, several factors hampered Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at
Entry. First, the new Government was not prepared to the situation, as elected under a
platform based on a very different set of macroeconomic assumptions, and this affected
the assessment of its legal, administrative and political capacity to implement envisaged
reforms. In some cases, such as the Oil and Gas institutional framework, the new
Government had not fully firmed its plans, but this was only realized ex-post, after the
operation was approved. Second, the inter-ministerial coordination was weak as new
ministers were just appointed. And third, the very short span of time given (in the face of
an emergency situation) to design, agree and finalize the operation prevented the Bank
and the Government to design a robust results framework, in the face of a weak economic
information system. The subsequent discovery of a large stock of expenditure arrears not
accounted for in the macroeconomic framework confirmed the difficulty to ensure quality
at entry when economic information and transparency is weak. The same short span of
time available also made it practically impossible to fully harmonize the EGPRC with the
MDBS process and calendar. This eventually led to increased transaction costs for all
partners: the Government had to deal with two parallel processes; the Development
Partners had to agree and contribute to re-opening the PAF 2009-11, which was
perceived by the Bank as inadequately addressing emerging challenges; and the Bank had
to supervise its own operation while working with DPs and Government for amending
the MDBS to justify its full re-alignment.

In light of the above shortcomings, the Bank’s performance during preparation is rated as
Moderately Satisfactory.



                                            16
(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during the implementation of the operation was satisfactory. The
task
team focused on the operation’s development impact. As the TTL was based in the
Bank’s country office in Accra, there was continuous interaction with Government
officials and the DPs on a day to day basis. In addition, there was also close monitoring
of the progress of the prior actions. Other task team members were also effective in
coordinating activities with the their respective Ministries and stakeholders.

The task team provided technical assistance to the Government and CSOs proactively.
For example, during the drafting of Freedom of Information Bill, the team facilitated best
practices from peer groups in other countries; supported a broad coalition which provided
feedback on draft bills; and worked with Parliamentarians to further improve the Bill,
prior to its approval. The Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) prepared by the team
realistically rated the performance of the operation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Even though the Bank’s performance supervision was satisfactory, considering that the
Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry was only moderately satisfactory, the
overall Bank performance is thus rated Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Government’s commitment to and ownership of reforms was adequate and
satisfactory. At the time of EGPRC preparation, the Government had just come to power
and it had inherited a difficult macroeconomic situation. It was fully aware of the gravity
of the situation and was committed to address the problems. For example, the President
of the country was committed to take bold austerity measures in 2009 and 2010 to bring
Ghana’s fiscal stance onto a sound and sustainable track and protect the development
objectives set forth in GPRS II Strategy. The Government had also asked for exceptional
and urgent support from the Bank and the IMF.

Even though there were delays in meeting some of the prior actions, subsequently the
Government met all of them.




                                                 17
6. Lessons Learned
      Improving harmonized frameworks. In order to improve the MDBS process on a
       structural basis, and improve harmonized frameworks, there was a need to: (i)
       introduce greater flexibility in the PAF to allow for the inclusion of triggers
       addressing unforeseen shocks to preserve PAF longer term objectives; (ii) revamp
       sector working groups through greater participation of Ministries' Chief Directors
       for better ownership, and (iii) have more frequent high level dialogue over the
       year (parallel to the establishment of an early warning system to monitor progress
       on the PAF), beyond the formal Consultative Group meeting and Annual Review.
       For MDBS DPs to better apprehend the severity of the macroeconomic situation,
       the creation of a macroeconomic sub-working group involving bilateral DPs and
       reporting regularly to the MDBS core group was also deemed necessary and thus
       created.
      Importance of announcement/credibility effects. Announcement of the approval
       of an operation like EGPRC did help in stabilizing exchange rate. It helped
       through (i) the replenishment of foreign reserves (thus anticipation that the
       government will be able to intervene on the FOREX if needed) and (ii) that the
       Bank/IMF macro monitoring and support to structural reform will help addressing
       some of the causes of the rapid depreciation (fiscal slippages).
      Need for realistic time framework and sequencing. While determining the prior
       actions to be achieved, there is a need on the part of the Bank and the Government
       to be realistic about the time framework and the sequencing within which the
       deliverables can be achieved. For example, in a democratic system, for any
       deliverable involving drafting of legislation which requires public consultation, it
       is not realistic to expect quick results.
      Trade-off between responsiveness to crisis and quality at entry. The quality at
       entry is likely to suffer in a situation such as the once faced by the Bank during
       the preparation of the EGPRC, when it had to respond to the macroeconomic
       crisis on an emergency basis. As the crisis situation was itself synonym of
       surprise, reflecting weak domestic information system and transparency, it cannot
       be expected that Government and the Bank respond immediately to it based on a
       solid information basis.
      Importance of CSOs, think tanks, trade unions and other organized structures.
       As the Government by itself is unlikely to create an external accountability
       mechanism, the Bank can play a major role for creating and strengthening it by
       involving CSOs, think tanks, trade unions and other organized structures.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

       N/A




                                           18
(b) Cofinanciers

       N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

       N/A




                                           19
    Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
          Names                       Title                 Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Carlos Cavalcanti                                         AFTP4
Marcelo Andrade                                           AFTP4
Denis Medvedev                                            AFTP4
Daniel Boakye                                             AFTP4
Smile Kwawukume                                           AFTPR
Katherine A. Bain                                         AFTPR
Sunil W. Mathrani                                         AFTEG
Jessica Dodoo                                             AFCW1
Ayishetu Terewina                                         AFCW1
Glaucia Ferreira                                          AFTP4
Supervision
Katherine A. Bain                                         AFTPR
Smile Kwawukume                                           AFTPR
Sunil W. Mathrani                                         AFTEG
Felix Oppong                                              AFTP4
Glaucia Ferreira                                          AFTP4
Ayishetu Terewina                                         AFCW1


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                       USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                          Total:            49.06                  244,723
Supervision/ICR
                          Total:            20.00                   99,765




                                       20
      Annex 2: Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                      21
      Annex 3: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                            22
Annex 4: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                    23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
      Annex 5: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


N/A




                                     35
                      Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents

1. Program Document, Ghana Economic Governance and Poverty Reduction Credit
(EGPRC), June 15, 2007; Report No. 47223-GH
2. Letter of Development Policy (June 2009)
3. Ghana Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report No. 52988-GH, March 1, 2010
4. Recommendation of Statutory Committee, dated June 22, 2009
5. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations dated June 11, 2009
6. Financing Agreement
7. Financial and Economic Data




                                          36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 33411
                                                                         2° W                                                                                                  0°                                                                               2° E
                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                              Tenkodogo
                                                 B U R K I NA FAS O

                                    Hamale                                                                     Navrongo
  To
 Bobo-                                                                                                                              UPPER EAST
                                                                            WalewaleTumu
Diolasso                                                                                                                     Bolgatanga                                                                                             GHANA
                                                                                                                                                                           Nakpanduri

                                                    UPPER WEST
                                                                                                                                                    Walewale                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dapaong
                                                                          Ko
                                                                           lpa
                                  Black Vo




                                                                                 wn
                                                   Wa
         10° N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10° N
                                                                                                                                                                           Gushiegu
                                    lta




                                                                                                                          e Volta
                                                                                                                   h it                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                               W                                                                                                                              Djougou
                                                                                             N O R T H E R N                                                                        Yendi
              To                                                                                                                    Tamale
        Ferkéssédougou
                                                      Sawla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BENIN
                                                                                                      Fufulsu
                                                    Bole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To




                                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                                   ak
                                                                                                                                                                    D                                                                        Djougou




                                                                                                                                                                                            Oti
                  C ÔT E                                                                                                                                                Nakpayili
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T O GO
               D ' IV O IRE                                                           a
                                                                                    ol t
                                                                          B l a ck V




                                                                                                                                                     Salaga

                    To
                   Bouna
                                                                                                                                                              Makongo
                                                                                                                                                   Yeji
                                                                                                  Kintampo                                                                             Dambai
         8° N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8° N
                                                                                             Jema
                                                                                                                                                                                     V O LTA
                                                B R O N G -A H A F O                                                        Atebubu
                                                                                                                                                              Kwadwokurom
                                                     Tain                                                ru
                                                              Techiman
                                                                                                     P




                                             Berekum                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sokodé

                                                Sunyani                                                                                                                                     Mount Afadjato
                                                                                                                                                                                                  (880 m)
                                                             K w
                                                                                                                                                                                                     go Ranges




                                                                                                                                      Af r a
                                                                 a h                                                                           m                        Lake
                           Bi a
To Agboville




                                                                     u                                                                                                  Volta
                                                                                                                                                                                    Kpandu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                     P l                                                                                                                                   Abomey
                                                                                                         a t Agogo
                                    Goaso                                                                   e a
                                                                                                                 u
                                                                                           Kumasi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ho
                                                                                                                                                                                                  a p i m - To




                                                       Bibiani                                                                                            EASTERN
                Krokosue                                                   ASHANTI
                                                                                                                      Anu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Porto-
                                                                                                                                                   im
                                                                                                                          m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Novo
                                                                                      Obuasi
                                                                                                                                             Bi r




                                                                 Diaso
                                         Tano




                                                                                                                                     Kade                                                                        Vol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ta
                                                                                                                                                                                             kw




                                                                                                                                                                        Koforidua                                                  Aflao
         6° N                                                                                                                   Oda                                                          A                                                                   6° N
                           W E S T E R N                            Dunkwa
                     Enchi
                                                                                                                                                                                    GREATER                                                                     2° E
To Abidjan




                                                                                                                                                                                    ACCRA
                                                                                                                                                                                    Tema
                                                                                                      Twifo Praso

                                                          Prestea                                                   CENTRAL
                                                                                                                                                                           ACCRA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GH A N A
                                                                                              P ra




                                                                              Tarkwa                                                                 Winneba
                                                              a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                            obr
                                                           Ank




                                                                                                                             Cape Coast                                                                                        REGION CAPITALS
  Newtown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
      This map was produced by                                                                  Sekondi
                                                      Axim
      the Map Design Unit of The
      World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                             Takoradi
                                                                                                                                                   Gulf of G uinea                                                             RIVERS
      colors, denominations and
      any other information shown                                                                                                                                                                                              MAIN ROADS
      on this map do not imply, on
      the part of The World Bank                                                              0      20         40           60      80 Kilometers                                                                             RAILROADS
      Group, any judgment on the
      legal status of any territory,                                                                                                                                                                                           REGION BOUNDARIES
      or any endorsement or                                                                   0               20               40            60 Miles
      acceptance of such
      boundaries.                                                        2° W                                                                                                  0°                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SEPTEMBER 2004
