Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17142-LA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 25.7 MILLION (US$ 34.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
SOUTHERN PROVINCES RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
February 24, 1998
Energy and Mining Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 30, 1997)
Currency Unit = Lao Kip (K)
K I = US$ 0.000502
US$ I = K 1,994
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
BACS      -    billing and collections system
CAS       -    Country Assistance Strategy
EDL       -    Electricite du. Laos
EGAT    -    Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
ESMAP   -    Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme
FB        -    fixed budget selection
GEF       -    Global Environment Facility
ICB       -    international competitive bidding
IDA       -    International Development Association
IPP       -    independent power producer
IRR       -    internal rate of return
LC        -    least-cost selection
LV        -    low-voltage
MIH       -    Ministry of Industry and Handicraft .
MOF       -    Ministry of Finance
MV        -    medium voltage
NPV       -    net present value
NS        -    national shopping
OGU       -    Off-grid Unit (EDL)
PGI       -    Provincial Grid Integration
PHRD      -    Policy and Human Resources Development
PIP       -    Project Implementation Plan
PPF       -    Project Preparation Facility
QBS       -    quality-based selection
QCBS    -    quality-and-cost-based selection
RAP       -    Resettlement Action Plan
SDR       -    Special Drawing Right
SOE       -    statement of expenditure
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Programme
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director: Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Sector Manager: Yoshihiko Sumi
Task Team Leader: Veronique Bishop



Lao People's Democratic Republic
Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
Project Appraisal Document
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objectives ..................................................................2
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators .................................2
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ........................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ................................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................................4
C. Project Description  Summary ..................................................................5
1. Project components ............................................................5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .....................................6
3. Benefits and target population ............................................................6
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements ............................................................6
D. Project Rationale ..................................................................8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..............................................8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .............................................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .................................................. 10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ...........................................................     10
E. Summary Project Analyses ................................................................. 10
1. Economic ...........................................................                                                       10
2. Financial ...........................................................                                                      10
3. Technical ................                                                                                                 10
4. Institutional ................                                                                                             10
5. Social ................ 11
6. Environmental ................                                                                                             11
7. Participatory approach .................11



F. Sustainability and Risks .............................1  
1. Project Sustainability .......................                                    1
2. Critical risks .......................                                           12
3. Possible controversial aspects .......................                           12
G. Main Credit Conditions .............................                                     12
1. Credit effectiveness conditions ..............................                   12
2. Other ..............................                                             12
H. Readiness for Implementation ............................... 13
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ..............................                             13
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .14
Annex 2.   Detailed Project Description .16
Table 2A.    Indicators for Mid-Term Review                          .18
Annex 3.       Detailed Project Costs.                                                       9
Annex 4.   Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary .20
Annex 5.       Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities .22
Table SA.         Key Financial Indicators for Electricite du Laos .23
Table 5B.         Electricity Tariffs, Electricite du Laos .25
Annex 6.    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .28
Table 6A.         Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .30
Table 6B.         Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .31
Table 6C.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds .31
Annex 7.   Project Processing Budget and Schedule .32
Annex 8.  Documents in Project File .33
Annex 9.   Statement of Loans and Credits .34
Annex 10.  Country at a Glance .36
Annex 11.   Government and IDA Experience and Strategy .38
Table 1 lA.   Total and Incremental Connections, SPE and PGI Project Provinces .40
Table 11 B.   Electrification Ratios, Central and Southern Provinces, Lao PDR .41
Power Sector: Lao PDR Statement of Sector Objectives .42
Map No. 28485



Lao People's Democratic Republic
Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Energy and Mining Sector Unit
Date: February 20, 1998                            Task Team Leader: Vronique Bishop
Country Manager/Director: Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala       Sector Manager: Yoshihiko Sumi
Project ID: LA-PE-44973  Sector: Energy (Power)   Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Investment Credit               Program of Targeted Intervention:   [] Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data                 [] Loan        [X] Credit        [] Guarantee    [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): = US$ 34.7 m equivalent
Proposed terms:                         [X]   Multicurrency            [] Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10          [ ]   Standard Variable         [] Fixed       []   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                         Local            Foreign         Total
IDA                                                              4.1               30.6          34.7
GEF Grant                                                        0.0                0.7           0.7
Electricite du Laos (EDL)                                        3.1                0.4           3.5
Villages                                                         0.3                0.0           0.3
Total         7.6               31.7          39.3
Borrower:                 Lao People's Democratic Republic
Guarantor:                n.a.
Responsible agencies:     EDL; Ministry of Industry and Handicraft (MIH)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):          1999      2000        2001       2002     2003   2004
Annual         2.2        5.5         7.5        8.6      7.9     3.0
Cumulative         2.2       7.7         15.2      23.8     31.7    34.7
Project implementation period: 1998-2003 Expected effectiveness date: August 31, 1998    Expected closing date: June 30, 2004
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



-2-
A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Project development objectives:                Key performance indicators:
a.   Expand rural electricity service in 7 central  a.    Increase electrification ratio in project
and southern provinces of Lao PDR, where  provinces from 11% of households in 1996 to 20%
economically justified, through grid extension and  in 2003; and
off-grid electrification; and
b.   Strengthen EDL's capacity to plan and  b.   EDL  performance vis-a-vis the Project
implement electrification  investments  and  to  Implementation  Plan  (PIP), and  EDL  and
operate on a commercial basis.                 Government compliance  with  technical and
financial targets set in Performance Contract.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
The Project is consistent with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (no. 115284-LA, discussed by IDA's
Board of Directors January 18, 1996), which supports a lending program concentrating on infrastructure
including power. Specifically with regard to the power sector, the CAS lending strategy calls for a
project to finance "the development of distribution networks to extend grid-supplied electricity to areas
where some economic activity needs to be supported," and the CAS technical assistance strategy
emphasizes "strengthening the Government's capacity to plan and implement its development program"
(CAS, p. 14).
The Project supports both of these strategies. The investment components of the project will finance the
least-cost extension of distribution networks in 7 rural provinces in which two previous IDA projects
have demonstrated that electrification "significantly increases opportunity for value adding activities"
(CAS, p. 20). The technical assistance to be provided under the project will help EDL strengthen its
ability to plan its investment program and to manage its operations on a commercial basis. (Annex 11
presents the Government's Statement of Sector Objectives for the power sector and discusses IDA
experience and strategy in the sector.)
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
a. Inadequate rural electrification. The underdeveloped state of rural infrastructure in Lao PDR is a
major constraint to rural economic growth and poverty alleviation. Only 8% of rural Lao households are
connected to the electricity grid, compared to over 60% in Vientiane. Households which are not
connected to the grid pay high prices for electricity (e.g. electricity from automotive batteries costs at
least $2/kWh). Alternative sources of lighting (typically, diesel wick lamps and sawdust torches) do not
provide sufficient light for productive tasks such as reading or weaving. These factors suggest that the
lack of electricity in rural areas contributes to rural poverty, which at 53% is twice the urban poverty rate
of 24%.
To help relieve rural poverty and to create opportunities for broad-based growth, the Government's
power sector policy focuses on making sufficient, reliable and affordable electricity widely available (see
Statement of Sector Objectives in Annex 11). Its medium-term target, presented in its Strategy for
Electricity Development, is to provide electricity to 88,000 households by the year 2000. A separate
study prepared with assistance from the Norwegian Government (Rural Electrification Sector Review and
Policy Formulation Report) provides recommendations for meeting this target at least cost. On the basis
of these documents, IDA-financed consultants assisted EDL in prioritizing investments in grid extension
(based on the estimated cost of grid extension and the willingness to pay of potential customers) and
executed feasibility studies for priority investments. These investments will be financed under the
proposed project.



- 3 -
b. Lack of viable alternatives to grid extension for supplying remote areas. The cost of extending the
national electricity distribution grid to the estimated 2 million people (350,000 households) living in
sparsely-populated rural areas exceeds the estimated economic and financial benefit. At the same time,
the use of off-grid electricity sources has been limited by the shortage of technical, institutional and
financial mechanisms for implementing these technologies. To reach those remote households most
willing to pay for electricity, EDL plans to pilot the use of innovative, cost-effective off-grid power
delivery mechanisms with private participation and then to replicate successful pilots on a larger scale.
To this end, ESMAP is assisting EDL in developing a medium-term plan for Institutional Development
for Off-Grid Electrification in Laos including analysis of willingness to pay and the scope for renewable
energy system development, as well as proposals for institutional frameworks. In addition, a PHRD
Grant of US$160,000 has been extended to assist in developing specifications for low-cost, off-grid
distribution networks. IJNDP/GEF is also considering providing support in renewable energy resource
assessment and pre-feasibility studies for micro-hydro projects.
c. Commercialization of the power sector. The Government recognizes the need to commercialize the
power sector in order to harness private investment and improve efficiency. It has already taken several
measures to advance this process: (i) MIH has attracted private financing to develop large-scale
hydropower generation (two plants with a total installed capacity of 350MW are currently nearing
completion by independent power producers (IPPs), and several are under negotiation); (ii) the Ministry
of Industry and Handicraft (MIH), which oversees the power sector, appointed a Board of Directors of
EDL in December 1996; (iii) the Government passed an Electricity Law in May 1997 supporting private
sector investment and establishing sector policies, (iv) MIH chartered EDL as a joint-stock company in
December 1997; and (v) MIH, Ministry of Finance (MOF) and EDL signed a Performance Contract in
January 1998 (developed with IDA assistance) to improve EDL's commercial focus and to enable it to
operate more independently from MIH.
The Government's strategy for further commercialization of the power sectorreflected in its Statement of
Sector Objectives (Annex 11) is to: (i) implement the EDL Performance Contract; (ii) reorganize EDL
into profit centers; (iii) develop additional generation capacity through IPPs; and (iv) develop regulatory
capacity within MIH to implement the Electricity Law. This strategy is consistent with Bank
recommendations on power sector liberalization in general and on improving the performance of state-
owned enterprises in Lao PDR in particular. A number of these activities have commenced during
preparation of the proposed project and would be carried forward during project implementation (see
Section B.3.c and Annex 5).
d. Poor performance of EDL's domestic business. Although EDL has consistently been profitable
overall, its domestic business operates at a substantial loss which is cross-subsidized by profits on its
electricity exports. Three key reasons for the poor earnings performance of the domestic business are (i)
low tariffs; (ii) slow billing and collections; and (iii) high transmission and distribution losses (see Annex
5). The company's cash flow performance has also been inadequate in recent years, due to the three
factors noted above, as well as large capital expenditures and a dramatic increase in EDL's debt service
requirement (generated by the expiration of grace periods on its existing debt and the massive
depreciation of the Lao currency in 1997). As a result, EDL has been only barely capable of servicing its
debt (debt service coverage ratio has been only 1.0 since 1993), and the company has not met the self-
financing covenant agreed upon under the ongoing Provincial Grid Integration (PGI) credit since 1993.
The Government and EDL have begun to implement a strategy to improve the performance of EDL's
domestic operations. First, the Government approved a 70% increase in tariffs for electricity sales within
Lao PDR effective October 1, 1997 (to 55 K/kWh or 3.8 US¢/kWh on a weighted-average basis
including sales tax). Second, to improve billing and collections, EDL plans to modernize its billing and
collection procedures and systems. Third, to reduce transmission and distribution losses, EDL has
established a Loss Reduction Unit which has identified the major sources of losses and is taking action to



-4-
reduce them. For example, it is installing 28,000 defective meters in Vientiane under the ongoing PGI
project, and is considering investments in capacitor banks. EDL is also reinforcing the Vientiane
distribution network under a project funded by the Asian Development Bank (ADB). These investments
are expected to reduce losses to 20% of domestic supply by 2001. IDA is providing support for the
implementation of these improvements, which would be followed through under the proposed project
(see Section B.3.d).
e. Insufficient planning and implementation capacity. Although EDL has substantially improved its
ability to plan and implement its power development program under two previous IDA projects, the
company could benefit from additional support and on-the-job training. EDL therefore plans to continue
to engage consultants for these purposes.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
a. Inadequate rural electrification. In line with the Government's rural electrification strategy,the project
will finance the extension of the national electricity grid to about 50,000 households in 7 central and
southern provinces of Lao PDR, in areas with potential for strong economic growth (see Annexes 2 and
4). These investments are expected to increase the electrification ratio in these 7 provinces from 1 1% in
1996 to 20% in 2003, and will complement similar investments in the Vientiane plain and the northern
provinces supported by the ADB project.
b. Lack of viable alternatives for supplying remote area, with an emphasis on renewable energy
technologies.  Under the proposed project, EDL will pilot the use of promising off-grid rural
electrification systems on a financially-sustainable basis, with an emphasis on renewable energy
technologies, in communities which are unlikely to be connected to the electricity grid for 10 years or
more (see Annex 2). A resident Off-Grid Adviser will assist EDL in planning and implementing this
project component by developing standard business plans, lease contracts and equipment specifications,
and by assisting EDL in negotiating contracts and procuring equipment (terms of reference are available
in the Project File). The mid-term results of the Off-Grid component will be summarized in a Mid-Term
Review prepared by an Off-Grid Unit (OGU) and the Off-Grid Adviser. This report will provide early
indications of successful technical options, institutional structures and financial mechanisms.  An
Implementation Plan prepared after the Mid-Term Review will combine these lessons learned with the
recommendations of the ESMAP Institutional Development paper and the UNDP/GEF pre-feasibility
studies. This sector work would provide the basis for replicating successful pilots on a larger scale,
which could be considered for IDA and GEF financing in a future operation.
c. Commercialization of the power sector. As noted above, a number of steps are being taken within the
scope of the proposed project to improve the commercial focus of EDL. First, the EDL Performance
Contract establishes targets for EDL's technical, commercial and financial performance, and provides for
monitoring of compliance by MIH. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that the targets and
commitments contained in the Performance Contractwould be adopted for the proposed Project. Second,
EDL is being reorganized into profit centers. EDL has recruited a Resident Financial Management
Adviser under IDA financing to establish auditing procedures and to implement formal cost accounting
for each profit center. Third, on the basis of cost accounting information generated under these new
procedures, EDL will introduce transparent, cost-based tariffs for each profit center (as provided for in
the Performance Contract).
The project will also support MIH in other areas of power sector commercialization and development,
including developing its hydropower strategy (e.g. assistance in prioritizing generation projects for
commercial development), coordinating and supervising sector investments, and building its regulatory
capacity in order to enable MIH to implement the Electricity Law. The assistance to be provided to EDL
and MIH under the project will therefore improve the commercial focus of EDL and will also



- 5 -
complement the Government's and IDA's other efforts to develop and commercialize the Lao power
sector.
d. Poor performance of EDL's domestic business. Under the proposed project, EDL and the Government
are taking further actions to improve EDL's financial performance. First, the Government has committed
under the Performance Contract to increasing tariffs for consumption within Lao PDR by an additional
50% by January 1, 1999, and simultaneously introducing quarterly tariff indexation. These adjustments
would make tariffs for sales within Lao PDR more reflective of costs and compensate for the recent
depreciation of the Lao Kip (which has reduced the foreign exchange value of electricity tariffs to 2.6
US¢/kWh). To the extent that tariffs are not adequate to cover the cost of Government-mandated
investments, the Performance Contract also stipulates that the Government will provide equity
contributions to EDL in support of these investments. Second, EDL will receive dividend payments
beginning in 1998 from two IPP projects in which it holds equity. Third, under the project EDL will
procure a simple, microcomputer-based billing and collection system (BACS) and consultant assistance
for its implementation. In addition, the Resident Financial Management Adviser will provide hands-on
assistance in improving billing and collections procedures. Fourth, to eliminate payment arrears from
Government agencies, EDL is empowered under the Performance Contract to reduce its tax payments to
MOF by the amounts overdue from these agencies. Fifth, EDL is making investments under PGI and
other projects which are expected to reduce transmission losses. Finally, it was agreed at negotiations that
EDL and the Government will meet their commitments under the Performance Contract and will make
subsequent tariff adjustments as required to meet the financial covenants (see Section G.2.a.). These
actions are expected to permit EDL to improve cost recovery on its domestic operations and to reduce its
accounts receivable to about 60 days by 2000, thus enabling the company to meet its network expansion
targets (Annex 5 provides details).
e. Insufficient planning and implementation capacity. The project will support assistance to EDL to
improve its institutional capacity in order to ensure timely project implementation and improved capital
budgeting; and to MIH to assist in sector planning, commercialization and regulation. (See Section C.4.c.
and Annex 2).
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for detailed costs):
Component               Category   Cost Including   % of    IDA      % of IDA
Contingencies  Total  Financing  Financing
_ __(US$m)    __ _(US$m)
a. Distribution Extension will finance    Physical  31.6       80       28.5        82
lower-cost extension of the distribution
grid in rural areas and small towns in 7
central and southern provinces of Lao
PDR (see Map), and a 52-km
subtransmission system to electrify areas
east of Savannakhet. Implemented by
EDL.
b. Off-Grid Rural Electrification will    Physical,  2.2        6        1.0         3
pilot standalone electricity systems  Institutional
including renewable energy
technologies, and will develop a national
plan for off-grid rural electrification.
Implemented by EDL.
c. Institution Building will support EDL  Institutional  5.5   14        5.1         15
in project management and commercia-



-6 -
lization, and will include provisions for
assistance to the Government in sector
planning and further commercialization.
Implemented by EDL and MIH.
Total     39.3         100       34.7        100
2. The project supports the following key policy and institutional reforms (see also Section B.3):
a. Separation of generation, transmission and distribution activities into profit centers.
b. Adjustment of tariffs to better reflect costs, including (i) real tariff increases, (ii) tariff indexation, and
(iii) internal transfer pricing between profit centers.
c. Increasing EDL's operational and managerial autonomy through implementation of its Charter and
Performance Contract.
d. Development of institutional frameworks for off-grid rural electrification.
e. Articulation of a Power Sector Strategy and an Action Plan for its implementation (in conjunction with
other Bank Group, ADB and privately-financed projects in the sector).
f. Implementation of the Electricity Law.
g. Development of privately-financed hydroelectric generation capacity through IPPs.
3. Benefits and target population:
a. Distribution Extension. Investments in the distribution network will build on the two previous IDA
electrification projects in Lao PDR (Section D.2) by increasing access to electricity on a least-cost basis
in poor, rural provinces which have demonstrated potential for growth. These investments will electrify
some 520 rural villages, benefiting about 50,000 new household electricity customers. Reinforcement of
existing subtransmission and distribution systems will reduce losses and improve service to industrial and
commercial consumers, who require a reliable source of power. Combined with other key infrastructure
investments funded by IDA and others (north-south road improvement, telecommunications expansion
and hydroelectric development), this component will promote diversification of the rural and regional
economy.
b. Off-Grid Rural Electrification. This component will pilot the use of small-scale, standalone generation
systems such as micro-hydro and diesel mini-grids as well as solar battery charging stations in remote,
rural communities on a financially sustainable basis. The immediate beneficiaries of this component will
be about 4,600 households in 46 remote villages.
c. Institution Building. Under this component consultant services and equipment will be provided to
EDL to further improve efficiency by building its project management capability, improving its technical
management and enhancing its commercial focus, and to MIH for hydropower planning studies and to
assist in the implementation of the Electricity Law. The ultimate beneficiaries will be EDL and its
existing and potential customers. These efforts will also strengthen the Government's ability to manage
the power sector, which provides a substantial share of the country's foreign exchange earnings.
Moreover, the measures being introduced under this component are expected to catalyze further private
investment in the sector as well as increase EDL's internal sources of investment funds.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
a. Implementation Period. 1998-2003.
b. Executing Agency. EDL, the state-owned enterprise responsible for electricity generation, transmission
and distribution in the major Lao power grids, will implement the project. EDL's Projects Officewill be
responsible for overall project management (including engineering, procurement and disbursement) and
will directly manage the Distribution Extension component. An Off-Grid Electrification Unit is being



7 -
established within EDL to manage the Off-Grid component.
c. Implementation Assistance. Consultant services will be provided to support project implementation,
including: (a) construction supervision consultants to assist and train EDL in project management and
procurement; (b) an Off-Grid Projects Advisor as well as short-term consultants to assist in planning and
implementing the off-grid component; and (c) financial consultants to assist EDL in financial
management, billing and collections.
d. Onlending. MOF will transfer the proceeds of the Distribution Extension Component and the non-
grant portion of the Off-Grid and Institution Building Components to EDL in the currencies in which
disbursements are made. The onlending rate will be 7% per annum (a proxy for the long-term
commercial rate). The final maturity will be 20 years including 5 years' grace on principal repayment.
MOF will transfer to EDL as equity contributions: (i) the proceeds of the GEF Grant and (ii) all other
funds received as grants in favor of EDL.
e. Project Preparation Facility (PPF). A PPF of $0.425 million will be provided to EDL to finance
project management consultants, equipment and supplies as well as other consultant services needed in
advance of credit effectiveness. This will permit EDL to make final arrangements for the procurement of
goods and works (e.g. advertising, tendering, bid evaluation) during the period between credit
negotiations and effectiveness, in order to prevent delays in project implementation.
f. Project coordination. EDL senior management will coordinate with MIH and MOF regarding periodic
tariff increases, commercialization and other financial and regulatory issues, consistent with the targets
agreed under the Performance Contract. The Off-Grid Unit will coordinate with Provincial and District
staff of MIH, and with Provincial offices of EDL to promote the Off-Grid component.
g. Project oversight. In line with its supervisory duties under the EDL corporate charter, the company's
Board of Directors will: (i) review project progress on a quarterly basis; (ii) review and approve EDL's
financial statements; and (iii) set company strategy and policy. MOF will oversee project financing and
disbursements, and will be responsible for monitoring compliance with the financial covenants noted in
Section G.2.a.ii. As sector regulator, MIH will be responsible for enforcing EDL's compliance with the
Performance Contract and issuing overall policy directives for the sector.
h. Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. An expatriate Resident Financial
Management Adviser was appointed in September 1997 under the ongoing PGI project to assist EDL for
15 months in improving its accounting, auditing and other commercial procedures (see Project Files for
terms of reference). The Adviser is assessing EDL's current financial management capacity and will
develop an action plan for improvements. EDL has solicited proposals from independent external
auditors acceptable to IDA under a three-year contract to review EDL's 1997-1999 financial statements
and project accounts. Agreement was reached at negotiations on appropriate arrangements for corporate
and project-related accounting and auditing (see Section G.2.a).
Agreement was also reached at negotiations that systems will be put in place to ensure that EDL improves
the reliability of its financial reporting for project-related transactions, and provides sufficient financial
information for managing and monitoring project activities. IDA will hire qualified accounting
professionals from the Hanoi office of an internationally-recognized accounting firm to perform a
financial management assessment for EDL and to design and implement appropriate procedures for
project accounting and reporting (including, inter alia, procedures for posting data to accounts, reporting,
and internal control). This work is expected to be completed in the early stages of project implementation.
i. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. Agreement was reached at negotiations that project
implementation will be monitored on the basis of the agreed commitments and performance indicators



-8 -
specified in EDL's Performance Contract (which constitute a supplemental letter to the legal agreements)
and summarized in Annex 1. Semiannual IDA supervision missions will review performance indicators,
and address issues relating to: (i) project management and implementation (e.g. scheduling, procurement
and budgeting); (ii) performance of EDL with respect to financial covenants and other financial
indicators; (iii) progress in restructuring the sector; and (iv) power planning and investment. Supervision
will require expertise in power engineering, organizational and commercial issues, project management,
and economic and financial analysis. IDA staff input is budgeted for about 40 staff weeks per annum until
project completion. A Mid-Term evaluation will be held in mid-2001 to perform a detailed review of
project progress. For the Off-Grid component in particular, it would evaluate the number of leasing
arrangements implemented, business plan submissions and approvals, financial indicators, and
operational data; this evaluation would provide early feedback on successful projects that could be
replicated on a large scale in a follow-on operation.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
The investment components of the project were developed following technical, economic and financial
studies that have taken into consideration environmental and social aspects as appropriate. The studies
considered various alternatives for extending rural electrification, including extending the distribution
grid, connecting border areas to neighboring grids, off-grid systems, and doing nothing. Grid extension
was selected in about 46 areas where it is the least-cost electrification option and generated acceptable
economic returns (see Annex 4 and Project Files, SwedPower Technical Design Report). This included
the reinforcement of the subtransmission system in one area (in Savannakhet province) where the existing
system has insufficient capacity following a route that minimizes environmental and social impacts.
Cross-border connectors (which supply imported power to border regions) were rejected because: (i) they
would exacerbate EDL's financial difficulties, as the cost of imported power is substantially higher than
domestic tariffs; and (ii) they could not be justified on poverty grounds, as inhabitants of border areas
tend to be better off than those in inland rural areas. Off-grid electrification is being considered where:
(i) this approach is more cost-effective than grid extension; and (ii) willingness to pay is estimated to be
sufficient to cover the full financial costs of electrification (less capital subsidies from GEF). A full-
scale, off-grid component was considered premature due to the lack of understanding of, and institutional
capacity in, the technical, institutional and financial methods of off-grid electrification appropriate to the
Lao setting.  EDL therefore decided to test these methods on a pilot basis, and to develop an
Implementation Plan for replicating successful methods. In cases where electrification was not estimated
to yield acceptable economic returns, it was decided to do nothing.



-9 -
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                               Project                          Latest Supervision Ratings
IDA-financed:                                                               Implemen-    Development
In Lao PDR:                                                               tation Progress   Objective
Inadequate rural    Southern Provinces Electrification (completed)               I                  I
electrification
Provincial Grid Integration (2425-LA, ongoing)              S                  S
Commercialization of  Third Structural Adjustment Credit (ongoing)               U                  S
the power sector
Nam Theun 2 (proposed Guarantee and IDA operation)
Outside of Lao PDR:   Indonesia: Solar Home Systems (4132-IND, ongoing)          S                  S
Inadequate rural
electrification     Indonesia: Renewable Energy Small Power (4198-IND,           S                  S
ongoing)
Commercialization of  Sri Lanka Energy Services Delivery (2938-CE, ongoing)      S                  S
the power sector
India Renewable Resources Development (3544-IN, ongoing)    S                  S
Other development
agencies:
All objectives      ADB Power Transmission and Distribution (ongoing)
High cost of off-grid    UNDP/GEF Renewable Energy Resources Assessment and
electrification     Capacity Building (proposed)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
EDL's experience with two previous IDA projects suggests that their staff needs to be supported with
consultant assistance, and that operating procedures need to be formalized. Project design includes
continuous consultant assistance in all aspects of project implementation. Contract packaging has been
simplified to facilitate implementation (turnkey contract for transmission systems; procurement of ready-
made concrete poles; advance preparation of tender documents). Under the project, EDL will formalize
its commercial systems and procedures (including auditing procedures and computerized billing and
collections systems) and will be held accountable for meeting financial and technical targets under the
Performance Contract.
A Bank review of rural electrification (Rural Electrification: A Hard Look at Costs and Benefits, OED
Precis, May 1995) recommends strengthening the economic and financial appraisal of projects, including
consideration of alternative energy sources. Grid extension was selected only where it was the least-cost
technology and where it was considered economically viable under conservative assumptions for
economic costs and benefits (see Annex 4.A), otherwise off-grid solutions will be evaluated. Grant
assistance is being sought to nurture the development of these alternative energy sources.
IDA experience with off-grid projects has confirmed the usefulness of demonstration projects in
removing information barriers, and the importance of community participation and cost recovery (Best
Practices for Photovoltaic Household Electrifcation Programs, World Bank Technical Paper No. 324,
1996). The Off-Grid component is conceived as a demonstration project, and will be undertaken in close
consultation with communities and community-based operators on the basis of full cost recovery.



-10-
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
EDL has demonstrated its commitment and ownership of electrification projects through its successful
10-year collaboration with IDA. It has established a Projects Office dedicated to implementing donor-
financed projects, which is staffed with experienced engineers who manage procurement, disbursement
and implementation. Moreover, EDL has assumed primary responsibility for preparing the proposed
project by: (a) working with consultants to prepare the detailed engineering design and draft Project
Implementation Plan (PIP); (b) preparing the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the project and
preparing a resettlement and land acquisition policy paper which can be used in future transmission
projects; (c) requesting GEF funds and advertising for the Off-Grid Project Advisor to start work in
advance of other activities; and (d) collaborating with MIH and MOF to develop tariff proposals and
negotiate the Performance Contract.
The Government's strong commitment to increasing rural electrification is evident from its substantial
borrowing for rural electrification from international donors such as IDA and ADB, and from its
collaboration with EDL in developing electrification targets. It has demonstrated its commitment to
improving EDL's ability to plan and manage its investments bycommercializing the company and raising
domestic electricity tariffs (Section B.2.e). Under the Performance Contract, it has committed to taking
further steps to improve EDL's performance. The Government has also demonstrated its commitment to
liberalizing the power sector, having already attracted substantial private investment in hydroelectric
generation and private interest in extra-high-voltage transmission development.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA is playing a key role in coordinating the efforts of EDL and the donor community to mobilize
resources for rural electrification in Laos. It has helped mobilize grant financing from ESMAP, PHRD
and GEF (see Section B.2.b. and B.3.b.) and is collaborating with ADB to support the Government and
EDL in commercializing EDL's domestic power business (e.g. providing consultant assistance in drafting
the Perfornance Contract and developing a tariff mechanism), as well as with UNDP/GEF.
IDA's participation in this project complements its role in assisting the MIH in formulating its power-
sector strategy, by supporting the implementation of the Electricity Law and the formulation of a
hydropower development strategy, including least-cost planning and policies related to public finances,
environmental and social issues.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the Project File; see Annexes 4, 5 and 8)
1. Economic:
Cost-Benefit Analysis:     NPV= US$26.0 million; ERR = 22.4%
2. Financial:              NPV= US$10.2 million; Financial Internal Rate of Return = 3.6%
Fiscal impact:             NPV= US$ 2.7 million in additional tax revenues
3. Technical: The technical parameters and estimated costs for distribution extension were established by
detailed feasibility, design and engineering studies undertaken by internationally-recognized consultants
(see Project Files) and checked against actual unit costs for the ongoing project. These were reviewed
during pre-appraisal and found to be technically sound and appropriate to the country's needs.
4. Institutional: EDL has demonstrated its project management capability through its successful
management of two IDA projects. The Projects Office of EDL has competent staff who are experienced
in managing donor-financed projects. However, additional support is needed to further enhance EDL's
institutional capacity in project management and implementation. To this end, it will receive continued
assistance from construction supervision consultants. The Off-Grid Projects Adviser will provide hands-



-11 -
on assistance to the Off-Grid Unit. In addition, EDL has established a Contracts Division whose staff has
been taking courses in ICB procurement. These measures are expected to enable EDL to efficiently
manage the proposed project.
5. Social:  The project is expected to have a positive social impact and to require no resettlement.
Moreover, all possible actions have been taken to minimize and mitigate the project's minimal land
acquisition requirements. The distribution lines will be routed along roads and other existing public
rights-of-way. The proposed subtransmission line route was adjusted in order to avoid settlements. The
substations will be built alongside existing substations and/or on government-owned land. EDL has
prepared a RAP which sets out the principles and procedures to be applied for land acquisition.
According to the RAP, using the route currently proposed, a total of about 0.17 hectares will be required
for the placement of pole foundations, at a total estimated cost of US$1,800. The RAP has been approved
by MIH and is acceptable to IDA. Agreement will be sought at negotiations that EDL will implement
land acquisition in accordance with the RAP.
6. Environmental: (Environmental Category B) The detailed engineering and design study provides an
assessment of the environmental impacts of the project. This has confirmed that the project does not
affect any ecologically sensitive areas and that impacts will be minor. Bidding documents will be
reviewed by IDA to ensure that adequate provisions are included to ensure that the works will be
executed in an environmentally acceptable manner.  The Science, Technology and Environment
Organization (STENO, within the Office of the Prime Minister) will provide periodic oversight of
compliance. See Environmental Data Sheet for additional details.
7. Participatory approach:
Identification/  Implementation    Operation
Preparation
Beneficiaries/community groups         IS             COL               COL
Local government                       CON            COL               COL
Other donors:
ADB                             COL             IS               IS
UNDP                            COL            CON                CON
UNCDF                           CON            CON                CON
JICA                            IS             IS                IS
KFW                             IS             IS                IS
(IS) Information sharing; (CON) consultation; and (COL) collaboration.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Project Sustainability: The technologies for the Distribution Extension component are well proven and
EDL has experience in implementing them. To provide additional support, EDL's technical managers
have received training abroad (under the ongoing PGI project) and consultants will assist in project
management. The technologies used in the Off-Grid component are also proven, and a resident advisor
will provide full-time support in their implementation. These elements will ensure the project's technical
sustainability. The physical components of the project form part of EDL's least-cost development plan
and have robust economic returns. The project would, therefore, be economically sustainable. The
management of EDL is being strengthened and its financial performance improved through the consultant
services and equipment to be provided under the Institution Building component. These measures will
contribute to the project's financial and institutional sustainability.



- 12 -
2; Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
(Outputs to Development Objectives)
Cost of distribution systems higher than     N        Price estimates are conservative and contingencies
expected.                                             are included.
Village operators do not operate off-grid    M        Village operators will take financial risk and share
systems on the basis of full cost recovery.           in profits.
EDL does not implement tariff increases or   M        Performance Contract binds EDL and Government
adopt sound financial management practices.           to increases in tariffs and reduction in arrears; on-
site Financial Adviser provides day-to-day advice
and early identification of problems.
(Components to Outputs)
Contractors do not perform in accordance     N        Contractual provisions (e.g. liquidated damages)
with contracts.                                       protect EDL from contractors' non-performance.
Inadequate design for micro-hydro.           M        International micro-hydro expert will consult and
train EDL; prior review of design by IDA.
Poor performance of Resident Financial       M        Contractual provisions and firn reputation provide
Management Adviser and Auditors.                      performance incentives; prior review by IDA will
ensure selection of reputable firms.
Poor performance of Billing and Collections  M        Same as above.
Systems consultants and providers.
Overall Risk Rating      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects: None.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Credit Effectiveness Conditions: Execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreement between MOF and EDL.
2. Other:
a. Financial covenants:
Agreements reached with MOF, MIH and EDL:
(i) EDL will: (A) maintain separate project accounts for the proposed project; (B) retain independent
external auditors acceptable to IDA and MIH to provide annual audits of EDL's financial statements, the
Special Account and project accounts (including documentation for statements of expenditure - SOEs;
see Annex 6) with the audit including a separate opinion on the SOEs used as a basis for disbursements;
(C) from fiscal year 1997 onward, EDL will submit the detailed audit reports to IDA by June 30 of the
following year; (D) from fiscal year 1999 onward, EDL will also submit cost accounting statements for
each business unit by June 30 of the following year; (E) not incur additional debt without IDA approval
unless it achieves debt service coverage of at least 1.5 times and its debt-equity ratio is less than or equal
to 60:40; (F) maintain a self-financing ratio of 20% (i.e. intemal cash generation as a percentage of 3-year
moving-average capital expenditure) from 1998 onward and 30% from 2000 onward; and (G) not issue a
dividend unless audited financial statements show that it has met all financial covenants for the previous
2 fiscal years;



-13 -
(ii) The Borrower through MOF and MIH will: (A) provide audited SOEs to IDA annually within 6
months of the end of its fiscal year; (B) raise EDL's tariffs for sales within Lao PDR in accordance with
the Performance Contract (at least 50% by January 1, 1999; quarterly indexation commencing January 1,
1999); (C) allow EDL to offset taxes due to MOF against overdue Government receivables in accordance
with the Performance Contract; (D) ensure that Government arrears to EDL do not exceed 75 days for
1998 and 60 days from 1999 onward; (E) take all necessary measures, including additional tariffs
increases, to ensure that EDL meets its self-financing and other covenants; and (F) not require EDL to
issue a dividend unless EDL has met all financial covenants for previous 2 years.
b. Performance covenants: Government and EDL will carry out their duties as agreed in the Resettlement
Action Plan and the Performance Contract.
c. Performance indicators: EDL will meet or exceed the following targets:
6/30/2001          6/30/2002        12/31/2003
_________ _________________   (Mid-term Review)            (Project Completion)
Subtransmission system            52 kmc installed
New grid-supplied households served  18,000           30,000          50,000
New off-grid households served    1,000               3,000           4,500
BACS implementation               Installed;         Operational
Accounts Receivable turnover (incl. 20 staff trained
Unbilled)                         120 days            60 days         60 days
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[X] EDL has submitted the draft procurement documents for the first year's activities to IDA for final
clearance. They are expected to be ready for the start of project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[XI This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader:                                         ___
Sector Manager:
S Country Director:                           _      _      _       _



- 14 -
Annex 1
Lao PDR Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary                Key Performance                 Monitoring and             Critical Assumptions and
Indicators                     Supervision                        Risks
Sector-Related CAS Goals                                                                      (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
Extend electricity to areas with  Growth in rural economic activity   Country economic reports.  Continued Govemment commit-
economic activity that needs to be  (e.g. incomes) and social                                  ment to commercializing SOEs.
supported.                    indicators (e.g. literacy)
Strengthen Government's        Disbursements under IDA-        Annual country portfolio review
capacity to plan and implement    financed projects relative to PAD    by IDA (Country Management
development.                  targets                          Unit)
Project Development                                                                            (Development Objectives to
Objectives                                                                                     CAS Objective)
Increase number of households  Electrification ratio in project  Semiannual supervision by IDA of  EDL receives sufficient technical
served by in 7 southern provinces   provinces increases from 11% in    project progress; Review of MIH    support for project implementa-
through grid extension and off-    1996 to 20% in 2003.        surveys of electrification.     tion, planning and commercializa-
grid electrification, where                                                                   tion.
justified by economic activity.  EDL performance vis-a-vis Project  Annual review by MIH and IDA
Implementation Plan (PIP)      of perfornnance relative to:
timetable.                     (a) PIP timetable;
(b) Performance Contract targets;
and (c) legal covenants.
Strengthen EDL's capacity to plan  EDL and Govemment compliance   Same as above.               Government approves tariff
and implement sustainable      with technical and financial targets                           increases in accordance with
electrification investments on a  set in Performance Contract.                                 Performance Contract.
commercial basis.
Project Outputs                                                                                (Outputs to Development
Low-cost electrification of rural    About 50,000 households   Annual review by MIH and IDA    Objectives)
areas in central and southern  electrified in 3 provincial/district    of EDL's performance vis-a-vis  Cost of distribution systems higher
provinces through extension of  capitals and 520 rural villages.  PIP, disbursement profile, and  than expected.
national electricity grid (see Map).  T&D cost: US$500/kW     technical targets under
MV construction costs: $9,000/km   Performance Contract.
LV construction costs: $5,000/km
Pilot electrification of remote  About 4,600 households in remote  The Rural Electrification   Village operators operate off-grid
villages.                      villages electrified with off-grid  Committee and IDA will review  systems on the basis of full cost
systems including renewable    progress vis-a-vis Business Plan    recovery
energy technologies Preparation of  and periodic monitoring reports
Mid-term Review (by 6/30/01) and  for each village electrified.
Plan for further development of    Implementation Plan (by
off-grid electrification using  12/31/01) for off-grid         Mid-term Review to be reviewed
appropriate technologies.      electrification                 by Government and IDA during
supervision; Implementation Plan
to be reviewed during Project
Identification for future IDA/GEF
operations.
Accounts receivable turnover
EDL improves the performance of  declines from 4.7 months in 1996   MIH and IDA review semi-   EDL implements tariff increases
its national electricity business.    to 2 months in 2000 and thereafter.  annually EDL's financial targets    and adopts sound financial
System losses decrease from 30%    under Performance Contract.  management practices.
in 1996 to 20% in 2000;
Return on net revalued fixed assets
in operation of 8%.



- 15 -
Narrative Summary                Key Performance                  Monitoring and             Critical Assumptions and
Indicators                     Supervision                         Risks
Project Components                                                                              (Components to Outputs)
Distribution Extension         Installation of:                 Quarterly procurement implemen-   Contractors will perform in
- 52 kmc of MV line             tation reports to EDL Board and  accordance with contracts.
- 1,200 kmc of LV (22kV) line   IDA.
- 900 kmc of 115-kV line
- 2x20 MVA I I5/22 kV capacity
- 34 MVA distribution capacity
- 50,000 household connections
Off-Grid Rural Electrification  Off-Grid installations:         Same as above.                  Adequate, low-cost design for
6/01  6/02  12/03                                  micro-hydro
Systems       10   30    45
Households   700 3000  4500
Institution Building           Implementation of:               Annual reviews by MIH and IDA    Adequate performance of Resident
- financial auditing procedures  of:                            Financial Management Adviser
- cost accounting systems       - EDL's audited financial       and Auditors
- appropriate billing and collection  statements
methods                        - EDL's accounts by profit center   Adequate performance of Billing
- non-technical loss reductions  - EDL's billing and collection  and Collections Systems
data                          consultants and providers



- 16-
Annex 2
Lao PDR Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
Detailed Project Description
A. Distribution Extension Component - US $31.6 million
The Distribution Extension component will increase electricity service in seven southern Lao provinces:
Bolikhamsai, Khammouane, Savannakhet, Saravane, Champassak, Attopeu, and Sekong. It will finance
the construction of about 52 km of high-voltage (115 kV) subtransmission lines, 2x20 MVA of 115/22
kV transformer capacity, 1200 km of medium-voltage (22 kV) lines, 900 km of low-voltage (380 kV)
lines, 34 MVA of 220/380 kV distribution transformers and 50,000 consumer meters. It will also pilot
the use of low-cost single wire earth return (SWER) systems in rural areas.
Bolikhamsai province. Electrification of approximately 6,000 households in 5 areas of about 200 -3,000
households each. Construction of a distribution grid in the area around the new Theun Hinboun
hydroelectric station (commissioning in 3/98) along road 8. Extension of the distribution network to the
east and west of the Paxan substation along road 13 and to the north in Borikhan.
Khammouane province. Electrification of approximately 7,000 households through extension of the
distribution grid from Thakek substation to 16 small areas of about 70-1,350 households each.
Distribution extension will be primarily through construction of branch lines using single-phase and
SWER technology.
Champassak province. Electrification of approximately 14,000 households in 9 areas of about 450 -
4,550 households each. Extension of the distribution grid from Pakse southward along the Mekong river
to the Khone area, where tourist development is expected, and eastward to the area around Pakxong and
to the Bouleven Plateau, where a new village has been established for the resettlement of people
displaced by the construction of the Houay Ho dam.
Savannakhet province. Electrification of approximately 13,000 households in 5 areas of about 460 -
3,700 households each through the extension of the Savannakhet distribution grid. Construction of a pew
115-kV transmission line from Pakbo substation near Savannakhet eastward to Kengkok, and a new
115/22 kV low-cost design substation in Champhone to increase system capacity and the quality of
supply. The capacity of the existing 22 kV lines is insufficient for further load development in the rural
.areas east of Savannakhet.
Saravane, Sekong and Attopeu provinces. Electrification of approximately 11,400 households in 70
villages in 6 areas of about 800-3,500 households each. Extension of the distribution grid to about 1,900
households around Saravane and northward along road 13 from Selabam hydro power plant.
Electrification of about 500 households in the provincial capital Sekong and nearby villages through
construction of a single-phase distribution grid supplied from the future Houay Ho hydro power station.
Electrification of about 2,000 households in the provincial capital Attopeu and district capital Xaisatha
through construction of distribution grids, also to be supplied from the new Houay Ho power station.
B. Off-Grid Component - US$ 2.2 million
The Off-Grid component will test methods of providing electricity service in approximately 46 rural
communities which are unlikely to receive grid access for at least 10 years. The pilot would seek to: (i)
establish local institutional, financial, and technical capacity for sustainable implementation of rural



- 17 -
diesel and renewable energy systems; (ii) implement small diesel, micro-hydro, photovoltaic systems
(and others according to demand from operators); and (iii) identify and develop the objectives,
institutional arrangements and scope for a national off-grid rural electrification program. Implementation
would promote sustainability of off-grid project development by: (i) maximizing involvement of the
private sector as well as beneficiaries; (ii) operating the off-grid systems on a cost-recovery basis; (iii)
defining and strengthening appropriate institutional and financial mechanisms; and (iv) developing
designs to minimize costs.
EDL will establish an Off-Grid Unit (OGU) which will develop standard technical specifications, sample
business plans (and criteria for their review) and sample equipment leases for solar, micro-hydro and
diesel applications appropriate for typical rural villages in Lao PDR. OGU will solicit business plan
submissions from village cooperatives and private entrepreneurs. It will review them according to
technical, safety and financial criteria and forward them to a newly-created Rural Electrification
Committee for final approval. For approved projects, OGU will procure the required equipment. Due to
the weakness of existing rural financial institutions, EDL will provide financing by leasing the equipment
to operators under 3 to 5-year lease-to-buy (i.e. hire-purchase) contracts, with a medium-term goal of
transferring responsibility for financing equipment to financial institutions (under future projects). The
operators will be required to pay at least 20% of the cost of equipment to be leased, and will be
responsible for operating and maintenance costs and charging and collecting tariffs on the basis of full
cost recovery.
The quantities of each type of equipment will be driven by demand from village operators with
acceptable business plans. Based on preliminary surveys, project cost estimates assume that 20 small
standard modular diesel generation sets (5-15 kW), 20 solar battery charging station kits (10 kW) and 6
micro-hydro systems (10 kW) will be financed. Other types of generation equipment such as solar home
systems would also be considered, depending on the local operators' business plan submissions.
Grant funding will be provided to EDL to defray the start-up costs of Off-Grid operations. ESMAP is
assisting EDL in developing a medium-term off-grid Rural Electrification Strategy including analysis of
willingness to pay and proposals for institutional frameworks. A GEF Grant of $744,000 (approved in
November 1997) will fund an Off-Grid Projects Adviser as well as short-term consultants to provide
specific implementation assistance (including drafting of specifications, sample business plans,
evaluation criteria and leases, evaluation of submissions, and monitoring and evaluation; see terms of
reference in Project File). The GEF Grant will also support a small capital contribution toward solar
battery charging stations. A PHRD Grant of $160,000 equivalent is financing the design of specifications
for safe, cost-effective, reliable electricity distribution networks suitable for rural use. In addition, the
Government has requested UNDP assistance to address other barriers to small-scale hydropower
development in Lao PDR. A project is being formulated by UNDP/GEF for assistance in resource
assessment for renewable energy in Lao PDR and pre-feasibility studies for micro-hydro projects.
The mid-term results of the Off-Grid component will be summarized in a report prepared by OGU and
the Off-Grid Adviser. This Mid-Term Review will focus on institutional, financial, and technical
experience of the project to date using indicators such as those given in Table A. The Mid-Term Review
will provide early indications of successful methods of off-grid electrification. OGU and the Off-Grid
Adviser will also prepare an Implementation Plan laying out plans for replicating successful pilots.
These documents, combined with the Rural Electrification Strategy and the UNDP/GEF pre-feasibility
studies, would provide the basis of a follow-on IDA/GEF operation.



- 18-
Table 2A Indicators to be Examined in Mid-Term Review of Off-Grid Component
Qualitative Indicators                    Quantitative Indicators
Institutional    *  Quality of procedures for off-grid project  .  Number of potential sites identified/visited
Issues            solicitation, review and approval      *  Number        of     business    plans
*  Level of local participation in design,    submitted/approved
financing,     construction,     and  *  Number of staff trained
implementation
.  Level of participation of local private
sector and non-governmental organizations
*  Quality of local organizations & support
infrastructure
.  EDL performnance in oversight function
*  Procurement experience
Financial Issues *  Creation of standard business plans, lease   .  Level of local contribution to capital cost
contract, etc.                            (cash, in kind)
*  Coordination   among   EDL,  local   *  EDL/Operator  contract  terms   and
operators, and other actors               conditions
*  Availability of financial intermediaries   *  Customer payment terns
(FIs) for expanded off-grid electrification   *  Planned/actual cost recovery of operating
efforts                                   systems
*  Capacity building required for FIs to   *  Disbursement of IDA and GEF funds
participate in expanded program
Technical Issues *  Creation   of  appropriate  technical   *  Number of each technology type proposed
standards                                 and implemented
.  Local interest in each technology type   *  Number of households served
(solar, micro-hydro, diesel, etc.)     .  Potential market by technology type
*  Design,  Installation,  &   Operating
Experience with systems installed to date
C. Institution Building Component - US$ 5.5 million
This component will finance technical assistance and equipment for project management,
commercialization and sector regulation/development. Project management assistance will be provided
to EDL, including (i) engineering consultants to provide hands-on assistance and training in project
management, procurement, construction supervision and monitoring; and (ii) equipment including
vehicles for supervision and maintenance, computers and other office equipment. Financial management
and commercialization support will be provided to EDL to finance the services of (i) the Resident
Financial Management Advisor; (ii) the procurement and installation of BACS; and(iii) short-term expert
advice to EDL's General Manager as determined during the course of the project. This is expected to
include advice with regard to corporate planning budgeting and training. Technical assistance willalso
be provided to MIH and EDL to assist in regulatory and technical matters including the formnulation of a
strategy for the power sector as required to support, inter alia, the implementation of the ElectricityLaw
and the preparation of a sector development action plan and a hydropower development strategy.



-19-
Annex 3
Lao PDR Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
Detailed Project Costs
US$ Millions                   Kip Billions
Local Foreign   Total           Local Foreign  Total
A. Distribution Extension
1. Distribution Installation Works      2.2         -     2.2            1.1        -   1.1
2. House Wiring                          0.2        -      0.2           0.1        -   0.1
3. Conductors                            1.4      2.9     4.3            0.7      1.4  2.2
4. Distribution Transformers, Switchgear  0.3     5.3      5.6           0.1      2.7  2.8
5. Consumer Service Equipment            0.3      3.6      3.9           0.1      1.8  2.0
6. Subtransmission System                0.6      1.6      2.2           0.3      0.8   1.1
7. Concrete Poles                        1.1      4.4      5.5           0.5      2.2   2.7
8. Materials for Distribution Installation  -     3.3     3.3              -      1.6   1.6
9. Land Acquisition and Project Mgmt.    0.3        -      0.3           0.1        -   0.1
Subtotal, Distribution Extension        6.3    21.1    27.4             3.2     10.6  13.7
B. Off-Grid RE
1. Off-Grid Works                        0.3        -     0.3            0.1        -   0.1
2. Off-Grid Equipment                      -      0.9      0.9             -      0.5   0.5
3. Off-Grid Advisory Services              -      0.7      0.7             -      0.4   0.4
Subtotal, Off-Grid RE                   0.3      1.7      2.0           0.1      0.8   1.0
C. Institution Building
1. Consulting Services to EDL              -      2.3     2.3              -      1.1   1.1
2. Equipment for EDL                     0.0      0.7      0.8           0.0      0.4   0.4
3. Consulting Services to MIH              -      2.0      2.0             -       1.0   1.0
Subtotal, Institution Building          0.0      5.0      5.0           0.0      2.5  2.5
Base Costs                             6.6    27.7    34.4             3.3     13.9  17.2
Physical Contingencies                  0.4      1.6      2.0           0.2      0.8   1.0
Price Contingencies                     0.6      2.4      3.0           0.3      1.2  1.5
Total Costs                            7.6    31.7    39.3             3.8     15.9  19.7
Exchange rate as of December 30, 1997 (Lao Kip/US$)                    1,994



-20-
Annex 4
Lao PDR Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
A. Distribution Extension Component
Present Value of Flows              Fiscal Impact
Economic      Financial
Analysis      Analysis        Taxes             Subsidies
(1997 US$ m)  (current US$m)  (current US$m)
Benefits:                 64.82          31.29        2.57
Costs:                    -39.15        -41.72                         n.a.
Net Benefits (NPV):       25.67         -10.43        2.57             n.a.
IRR:                      22.80%         3.01%      .
1. Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Economic benefit: Willingness to pay for electricity supplied by project to 50,000 households.
Financial benefits: Incremental sales revenue to EDL net of taxes, i.e. average household consumption
(kWh) times the tariff level applicable to that level of consumption (excluding connection charges).
Fiscal benefits: Incremental tax revenue from EDL.
Economic andfinancial costs: (a) component investments during the period 1998-2003; (b) incremental
operation and maintenance costs due to the project; and (c) estimated energy costs.
The reason for the much higher figures of the economic analysis relative to the financial analysis is due
largely to the consumer surplus and, to a smaller extent, taxes. In reality, tariffs are not differentiated
according to each consumer's willingness to pay resulting in a significant consumer surplus; this is typical
for rural electrification projects. Net sales revenues, nonetheless, exceeds operating costs.
2. Main Assumptions:
The economic rate of return was calculated on the basis of incremental economic cost and benefit streams
associated with the project, as compared to a "without project" case. Average willingness to pay was
estimated at 22.52 US¢/kWh in 1998, declining gradually to 19.97 US¢/kWh in the year 2003. These
estimates are based on data obtained from (a) a market survey of 1,200 households and (b) consumption
patterns of other provinces recently electrified, and are consistent with those measured in rural areas of
other countries in the region.
Average incremental monthly consumption was estimated at 29 kWh per household in 1998, increasing to
98 kWh in 2007, computed on the basis of average monthly consumption of similar regions for a market
expansion period of seven years, after which electricity consumption is assumed to increase only as a
function of income levels.
Investment cost estimates are presented in Annex 3. Incremental operations and maintenance cost was
estimated at 2% of investment cost. For 1998-2000 energy costs are based on export and import prices.
This means 90% at agreed export prices of the Xeset hydropower project (a forgone revenue) plus a
wheeling fee paid to the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand(EGAT) of 0.5 US¢ /kWh and 10%
purchased from PEA at a price of 7.5 US¢lkWh. Based on the following table, energy costs in US¢/kWh
are 5.407 in 1998, 5.258 in 1999, 5.109 in 2000 result. During 2001 onward, once the region is
connected to the Xeset project, energy costs are estimated at Xeset's export prices (average 4.354
US¢/kWh), which is a measure for its opportunity cost. Distribution losses are estimated at 12% and



-21 -
starting 2001 transmission losses at 6%. Throughout the period, energy costs reflect the load profile of
rural consumption as presented in the use pattern in the table below. No shadow price is used for foreign
exchange since the exchange rate is set by the market. All costs and benefits remain constant in real
terms (for early 1997 values).
1998                    1999     2000    2001
onward
90%                      10%     90 %     90 %    100 %
from                     from    from     from     from
Xeset                    PEA    Xeset    Xeset    Xeset
Use     Rates  Weighted  EGAT  EGAT   Use         Use      Use
Pattern         Xeset     Fee    Tariff  Pattern   Pattern   Pattern
I [Weight]       Rate                     ( [Weight] 1 [Weight]  [Weight]
Peak        0.6     5.8    3.480                     0.53     0.47     0.40
Medium      0.2     3.32    0.664     0.5    7.5    0.27      0.33     0.40
Low         0.2    P2.65 T0.530 _3__ _   0.20                 0.20     0.20
Energy Cost l               5.407                    5.258    5.109    4.354
Note: Figures are measured in US¢/kWh unless otherwise noted.
3. Sensitivity analysis /Switching values of critical items:
The economic viability of the project was tested for key project risks and was found to be robust:
Key Risk Parameter                                   ERR(%) Switching Value
(a) delay of investment and benefits of one year     22.14    (delayed benefits) 11 years
(b) capital cost overrun of 10%                      20.73    111.7 %
(c) electricity consumption 20% lower                18.20    52.8 %
(d) willingness to pay 20% lower                     16.62    39.6 %
(e) extreme case (one year delay,                    19.80    123% capital cost overrun,
10% capital cost overrun, 16%                              35% distribution loss,
distribution loss, 6% transmission loss)                   10% transmission loss
The project is not expected to be sensitive to energy costs because these values are based on long-term
contractual agreements. Details of the calculations are available in the Project Files.
B. Off-Grid Component
Present Value of Flows
Economic Analysis           Financial Analysis
I_______________________ | (1997 US$m)                          (current US$m)
NPV total:                         0.314                       0.244
Solar Battery Charging            0.070                       0.056
Micro-Hydro                       0.084                       0.064
Diesel                            0.160                       0.124
IRR:
Solar Battery Charging             14%                        13%
Micro-Hydro                        16%                        14%
Diesel                            16%                         14%
1. Summary of benefits and costs:
Benefits - willingness to pay of up to $4.40/kWh/month.
Costs - Equipment initial investment, operation, maintenance, and refurbishment
2. Main Assumptions:
System Type                System Size          Installed System Cost      Number of Systems
Solar battery Charging     2 kW                 $11,200                             20
Micro-Hydro                10 kW                $30,000                              6
Diesel                     15 kW                $17,000                             20



-22 -
Annex 5
Lao PDR Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
EDL's past performance, present financial condition, key financial issues and expected future performance are
discussed below. Key financial indicators for EDL are presented in Table 5A. Details of the company's
historical and projected performance are available in the Project Files.'
A. Past Performance and Present Financial Position
1. Past Performance. EDL's main business is to generate power for export, primarily to Thailand, and for
domestic consumption. Its generation capacity is relatively small, with a 1996 installed base of 240 MW and
output of 1,248 GWh. Domestic consumption has been limited by the size of the network, which reached only
130,200 customers in 1996, and by low incomes, which constrain household consumption.2 Historically,
exports have comprised about two-thirds of total sales. Network losses have been high, consuming about 12%
of total supply and 30% of domestic supply (see Table 5A--Electricity Balance).
EDL has experienced strong growth in revenues and earnings in recent years (see Table 5A--Income Statement
Items). From 1992 to 1996, sales revenue increased 24.4% per annum (to K 42.2 b or US$45 m in 1996),
driven primarily by 12.8% annual growth in kWh sales and tariff increases of 7.6% pa. EDL's operating costs
increased 26.0% pa over the same period (to K 27.2 b in 1996) due largely to increased electricity generation
and inflation of about 10% pa. Although expenses increased more rapidly than revenues, operating income
still grew 21.9% pa over the period, to K 14.9 b (US$16 m) in 1996. EDL's profitability is reflected in the
company's financial ratios: from 1992 to 1996, operating margin (earnings before interest and taxes) averaged
36.7%, profit margin averaged 10.5%, and return on partially-revalued average net fixed assets averaged
6.1%.
The company's overall profitability, however, masks the poor performance of its domestic operations, which
consistently generate substantial operating losses, estimated at K 14.3 billion in 1996.3 These domestic losses
stem from the high cost of supplying EDL's widely-dispersed, low-volume domestic customer base, and from
domestic tariffs which are insufficient to cover these costs. EDL's export business, on the other hand, is
highly profitable, generating an operating margin of about 90% in 1996.
This increase in revenues and earnings was driven by capital expenditures of more than K 115 b (about
US$143 m) from 1992 to 1996. This investment financed the construction of 80 MW of generation capacity
and the extension of the domestic network to 37,300 new customers, increasing the company's net fixed assets
by more than 50% over the period (see Table 5A--Balance Sheet Items). To help finance this investment, EDL
more than doubled its long-term debt, increasing the company's debt-equity ratio from 51:49 in 1992 to 65:35
in 1996.
Financial results for years before 1991 are provided in Staff Appraisal Report, Lao PDR Provincial Grid Integration
Project, World Bank Report no. 10384-LA, August 10, 1992, and Staff Appraisal Report, Lao PDR Southern Provinces
Electrification Project. World Bank Report No.10384-LA, August 10, 1992.
2  Average consumption for all customers was 250 kWh per month in 1996.
3  These estimates are based on a preliminary disaggregation of EDL's financial statements between generation/export and
domestic transmission/distribution. Available in the Project File.



-23-
Table 5A. Key Financial Indicators for EDL
Millions of Current Kip                                Actual                   I Estimatel            Forecast
Years ending December 31      Unit      1992    1993    1994    1995    1996        1997     1998    1999    2000    2001
Electricit Balance
Generation                    GWh        752     920    1,199    1,089    1,247    1,196    1,165    1,179    1,397    1,375
Imported Electricity          GWh         41      48       57       77       88      105      139      149     238      276
Total Supply                 GWh        793     968    1,256    1,166    1,335    1,301    1,304    1,328    1,634    1,651
Transmission/Distribution Losses   GWh    73      108     148      142      155      170      152      154      158     152
Electricity Sold
Domestic                      GWh        261     264      279      338      375      430      476      488     633      729
Export                        GWh        459     596      829      676      792      688      664      674     829      756
Total Electricity Sold       GWh        720     860    1,108    1,013    1,167    1,118    1,140    1,162    1,462    1,485
Domestic Tariff Approved     K/kWh                                         32.2    55.1      55.1     82.7    99.2   119.0
Average Revenues
Domestic                      K/kWh    19.37    22.52    23.49    23.71    25.86    34.89    57.97    86.95   104.34   125.21
Export                       K/kWh   26.35    25.25    24.71    30.91    34.85    52.84    71.00    82.03    83.87    85.75
Average Revenue             K/kWh   23.83    24.41    24.40    28.51    31.97    45.94    65.56    84.10    92.74   105.12
Income Statement Items        M Kip
Domestic Revenues (elect.+ installation)  5,500    6,434    7,097    8,615   14,589   16,204   29,236   44,320   68,053   93,327
Export Revenues                       12,107   15,045   20,489   20,881   27,619   36,369   47,157   55,260   69,501   64,797
Total Operating Revenues             17,607   21,479   27,586   29,496   42,207   52,573   76,394   99,580  137,554  158,123
Operating Costs                       10,834   12,917   17,151   20,014   27,465   35,527   52,151   62,454   78,581   88,331
Operating Income                      6,774    8,562   10,435    9,482   14,742   17,046   24,243   37,126   58,974   69,792
Interest Expense                       4,026    4,018    3,874    4,809    7,899   10,067   12,336   17,362   19,431   19,930
Income Tax                             1,392    3,976    3,103    3,171    3,210    2,523     -      2,079   13,607   17,134
Dividends Received (IPPs)                                           -       -        -      17,579   20,474   19,836   22,874
Other Income (Expenses) incl. Depn. Adjust.   257  197    327    2,260   (1,096)    229  (18,735)  (6,995)   (666)   4,338
NetIncome                              1,614     765    3,784    3,761    2,538    4,685   10,751   31,163   45,106   54,695
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                         12,630   15,453   16,973   18,880   27,171   46,983   32,952   32,460   36,568   38,287
Less Current Liabilities               (341)  (2,018)  (5,649)  (3,751)  (7,251)  (4,995)  (4,992)  (4,866)  (4,782)  (4,611)
Net Fixed Assets                      117,08   119,88   127,054  167,213  203,88   349,61   504,485  630,92   779,94   891,969
Total Assets (net of Current Liabilities)  129.369  133.32   138.37   1823    22380   391,604  532.446  65852   811728  925.64
Long-term Liabilities                 66,038   70,623   71,972  120,415  156,062  211,687  258,575  316,136  419,480  475,057
Shareholders' Equity                  63,331   62,70   66,406   61,927   67,743  179,917  273,871  342,38   392,24   450,58
Total Liabilities and Equity        129.36   133.32   138,378  18234   223.805  391.604  532.44   65852   811,728  925.64
Cash Flow Statement Items
Intemal Sources                        11,835   13,879   19,045   14,916   21,867   26,912   39,117   55,332   77,818   92,804
Borrowings (incl. financing of IPP invest.)    7,017    4,520    9,333   55,819   49,177   73,162   44,871   67,576  108,047   73,539
Equity Investments                    (1,627)   (122)    947   (6,838)    (90)  44,623        -        -       -        -
Extraordinary income (loss)              -        -        -      2,26      556      656    1,02      1,41     1,593    1,673
Total Sources of Cash                17,22   1827    29.32    66.15    71.510  145.3    85.010  124,3]   18748 5 168.01
Capital Expenditure            117    11,791    7,615   11,790   43,813   42,371   51,522   78,442  102,233  151,816  116,945
Noncash Working Capital Incr. (Decr.)  2,882      -        -      3,702    9,150    1,171    5,788     -      3,704    4,037
Debt Service                           6,033    8,002   13,913   10,699   20,127   21,006   35,652   41,983   49,206   60,039
Dividends and Other                    (3,729)      4    1,410    1,786   (2,240)         -        -            -        -
Total Uses of Cash                   16.97    15.62        1    60.000   69408   73.69   119.882  144215  20472   181.021
Financial Ratios
Operating Margin (Operating Inc./Rev.)   38%      40%     38%      32%      35%      32%      32%      37%      43%     44%
Profit Margin (Net Income/Revenue,%/o)    9%       4%      14%     14%       6%       90/0    14%      32%      33%     35%
Returnon Avg. Net FixedAssets(%)        5.3%     4.4%     6.90/o    6.1%    6.6%     6.1%     6.2%    10.7%    13.3%    12.1%
Debt Service Coverage (times)            1.85    1.53     1.05     1.01     0.96     1.14     1.01     1.30    1.54     1.32
Fundsfrom Int. Sources (M Kip;legal def)    2,008    4,281    2,229   (4,411)  (10,308)   2,546   13,755   35,233   44,258   39,667
Self-Financing Ratio (internal fiinds/3-yr avg. capex)  41%  11%    -14%    -22%      4%      18%      32%      36%     32%
Current Ratio (Curr. Assets/Curr. Liabs.)  37.0    7.7      3.0      5.0     3.7      9.4      6.6      6.7      7.6      8.3
LTDebtasa%ofTotalCapitalization          51%      51%     50%      65%      69%      54%      490/%    48%      51%      50%
Accounts Receivable Turnover (days)       142     101       94      112      142      136      110       73      61       62
n:IBishopILaolBoaroAFlNMODEL.XLS; Financial Summary; 2124/98



-24-
EDL's cash flow has weakened in recent years due primarily to its large, debt-financed capital investment
program, including the Government's contribution to IPP investments (see Table SA--Cash Flow Statement
Items)) The company's increased debt burden, combined with the expiration of grace periods on existing
debt, have caused its debt service payments to increase more rapidly than its earnings, from K6.0 b in 1992 to
K20.1 in 1996. In addition, EDL remits about 25% of its revenues to the Government in taxes2and paid a 30%
dividend in 1993-95. As a result, EDL has generated retained earnings of only about K3-4 b (about US$3-S
m) per annum since 1994.
The combination of these factors, along with inadequate domestic sales revenue, has resulted in serious cash
shortfalls and breaches of EDL's loan covenants. EDL has not met its covenanted self-financing target of
20% since 1993, and self-financing ratios were actually negative in 1995-96; debt-service coverage declined
from 1.9 times in 1992 to less than 1.0 times in 1996, so that EDL was insolvent. As discussed below, MOF
has worked with EDL to relieve these cash deficits.
The East Asian currency crisis has impacted EDL's expenses and export revenues. The official exchange rate
for the Lao Kip depreciated from 1,100 K/US$ in July 1997 to 1,994 K/US$ in December 1998, generally
tracking the fluctuations in Thai Baht. This has dramatically increased EDL's cost of debt and debt service
(since all of EDL's debt is denominated in non-Baht foreign currencies) and its operating costs (foreign-
denominated costs increase in the short term and local costs in the medium term). This negative impact has
been partially mitigated by an increase in the value in Kip of EDL's export revenues, since EDL's export
tariffs are denominated in US$.
2. Present Financial Position. The Government has taken several recent measures to improve EDL's financial
position, including a 70% increase in domestic tariffs effective October 1, 1997 (see Section B below), the
conversion of US$32 m of Government debt to equity, and the suspension of dividends. Partly as a result of
these measures and partly due to its strong export revenues, EDL remained profitable in 1997 despite the 50%
depreciation of the Kip in the second half the year. EDL's estimated 1997 operating margin is 32%, profit
margin, 9%, and return on partially-revalued net fixed assets, 6%.
EDL's self-financing ratio is expected to improve to 4% for 1997, albeit substantially below levels covenanted
under the PGI project. EDL's cash flow, however, remained insufficient to cover its debt service requirement
for the year. To relieve this cash flow shortage, MOF has rescheduled some of EDL's debt service obligations
and provided equity contributions to several of EDL's investment projects.
B. Key Financial Issues
1. Low Domestic Electricity Tariffs. As noted above, EDL's revenues on sales within Lao PDR are
substantially below costs.3 Domestic tariffs remained nearly constant from January 1990 until June 1996,
when MIH raised tariffs for larger customers. As a result, revenues in 1996 covered less than half of EDL's
estimated long-run marginal costs. However, the Government approved a 71%weighted-average increase in
domestic tariffs (to 52.49 Kip/kWh on a pretax basis and 55.11 Kip/kWh including sales tax) effective
October 1, 1997. Table SB presents tariffs by customer class and on a weighted-average basis for sales within
Lao PDR.
A self-financing target of 20% was covenanted under its existing IDA and ADB credits. Financial results for earlier years
are provided in Staff Appraisal Report, Lao PDR Provincial Grid Integration Project, World Bank Report No. 10384-LA,
August 10, 1992, and Staf Appraisal Report, Lao PDR Southern Provinces Electrification Project.
2 EDL pays 45% corporate tax, 20% duties on power exported and imported, and 5% domestic sales tax.
Estimates and source data on cost recovery are available in the Project Files.



-25 -
Table 5B. Electricity Tariffs, Electricite du Laos
(Kip/kWh unless otherwise noted;
for sales within Lao PDR, including 5% sales tax)
Tariff in Effect Jan. 1    1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997    1998        1999
Residential:                                                          (10/1/97)  (1/1/99)
1-50 kWh                  7      7      8      8      8      8      8     10.5     15.8
51-100 kWh                7      7      8      8      8      8      8    21.0      31.5
101-200 kWh               7     14    15    15    15    15    15    31.5           47.3
201-500 kWh              10    14    25    25    25    25    25    52.5            78.8
500+ kWh                 10    14    25    25    25    50    50    84.0    126.0
Governmental               9     18    30    30    30    30    30    63.0          94.5
Commercial:
Normal Enterprises        15    16    47    47    47    47    60    84.0    126.0
Entertainment            15    16    47    47    47    47    90    105.0    157.5
Industrial                11    15    30    30    30    30    35    63.0            94.5
Agriculture (non-irrig.)   7      7      7      7      7      7     14    63.0      94.5
irrigation                7      7      7      7      7      7     14    26.3     39.4
Embassies              42.15     56    60    60    60    60    90    152.0           0.0
$0.06                                           $ 0.095  $ 0.095
Weighted Averg
Domestic Tariff
(all customer classes)
including tax          11.2  14.2  25.2  25.2   25.2  26.0  32.19   55.11          82.7
pretax                                                           30.7    52.5      78.7
increase                    27%   78%    0%    0%    3%   24%   71.2%    50.0%
Full year
including tax          12.5  19.4  22.5  23.5  23.7  25.9  34.9    57.9            61.6
net of tax             11.9  18.4  21.4  22.4  22.6  24.7  33.2    55.1            58.7
Substantial additional tariff increases would be required to enable EDL to cover the cost of its domestic sales.
Under the Performance Contract, the Government has committed to additional tariff increases (on the basis of
recovery of fully-allocated costs by profit center), including a 50% tariff increase and quarterly indexation,
both of which will take effect on January 1, 1999. In addition, to the extent that tariffs are insufficient to cover
losses on Government-mandated investments, the Government has committed under the Performance Contract
to provide equity contributions to EDL. These provisions of the Performance Contract were confirmed at
negotiations and included in a supplemental letter to the credit agreement.
Export tariffs were set contractually in US$ under sales agreements with EGAT using formulae which are
reviewed every four years. The weighted-average export tariff for 1996 was 35.8 Kip/kWh (3.9 US
cents/kWh) which provided a comfortable operating margin. Export tariffs for the IPPs were set under power
purchase agreements to reflect the currencies of the IPPs' financial obligations.
2. High Transmission and Distribution Losses. As noted above, about 30% of power supplied to the domestic
network has historically been lost in transmission and distribution. Losses were 20% in 1991 and peaked at
32.7% in 1994. This implies lost revenue of approximately K 3 billion per annum (relative to an efficiently-
run network). A Loss Reduction Unit within EDL has identified the causes of these losses and is working to



-26 -
remedy them. To reduce metering losses, EDL is replacing 28,000 meters in Vientiane under the PGI project.
To reduce losses in the 22 kV lines, EDL is considering investing in capacitor banks. In addition, EDL is
rehabilitating the Vientiane grid under the ongoing ADB project. Together, these investments are expected to
reduce losses to 20% by the year 2000. Agreement was reached at negotiations on these targets for loss
reductions, which are also embodied in the Performance Contract.
3. Slow Billing and Collections. EDL has a long history of slow billing and collection of revenues. As a
result of cumbersome billing procedures, EDL requires I to 2 months to bill customers for power consumed.'
EDL's collection of bills has also historically been slow. At appraisal of both the Provincial Grid Integration
Project and the Southern Provinces Electrification Project, domestic accounts receivable turnover was
estimated at 150 days of sales (net of unbilled power). Although EDL had reduced net domestic accounts
receivable for energy sales slightly, to 140 days (Kip 16.4 b) by 12/31/1996, they remain several times higher
than for an efficiently-run utility (30-45 days of sales).
EDL's receivables for installation of service also increased substantially in 1996, due to a policy permitting
customers to pay for installation over a period of three years. Because EDL has had difficulty in collecting
these payments from customers after connecting them to the system, the company is now requiring customers
to pay installation charges in advance. Experience under the PGI project indicates that customers are able to
pay these charges.
Technical assistance will be provided under the project to assist EDL in improving its billing and collection
systems (BACS). Specifically, the technical assistance will include: (a) assistance in selecting and installing
computer hardware and software for an integrated billing and collections system which would expedite bill
processing and track collections; (b) developing procedures to write off bad debt, including aging of accounts
receivable, estimation of uncollectible accounts, and provisioning; (c) tracking export collections and
enforcing EGAT's contractual payment period; (d) imposing penalties for late payment (including late
charges, interest penalties, and cutoffs); (e) providing incentives to collectors for improving collections.
Agreement was reached at negotiations on specific targets for reductions in accounts receivable consistent
with the implementation of improvements in billing and collection systems, to 120 days of sales in 1998 and 60
days of sales in 2000 and thereafter.
EDL has particular difficulty collecting from Government customers, whose receivables stood at Kip 1.0
billion (257 days) at the end of 1996. To eliminate these arrears, Ministry of Finance agreed under the
Performance Contract to permit EDL to offset the amounts owed by Government agencies against EDL's tax
remittances to MOF in 1997 and 1998. The Performance Contract provides for EDL to offset its tax payments
by K 800 m in 1997 and K 500 m in 1998 (to reduce Government arrears to 75 days of sales by 12/31/98), and
thereafter to offset its tax payments against Government receivables aged more than 60 days.
Export collections perforinance is relatively good. Payments are governed by the terms of the export sales
agreement between EDL and EGAT which permits EGAT to remit payment up to 45 days after billing.
Nonetheless, accounts receivable from EGAT doubled in 1995 (from 27 days of sales in 1994 to 56 days in
1995). As noted above, the BACS consultants will also assist EDL in improving its export collections.
4. Non-standard Accounting Practices. EDL's financial statements are not prepared in accordance with
generally-accepted accounting principles (GAAP) or international accounting standards (IAS). In preparation
for corporatization, EDL will need to prepare financial statements that comply with these guidelines.
Moreover, to implement cost-based tariffs, EDL will need to develop accounting by profit center. Policies and
procedures need to be implemented inter alia, for: (a) accounting by profit center (including project accounts);
(b) annual fixed-asset revaluation; (c) adequate depreciation provisions; (d) expensing unrealized foreign-
exchange losses on long-term  debt; (e) recording investments in other companies (e.g., consolidating
"Unbilled power" stood at 39 days of sales as of 12/31/96 and 43 days as of 12/31/95.



-27-
subsidiaries); (f) provisioning for uncollectible accounts; and (g) appropriate consolidation accounting. EDL's
Resident Financial Management Adviser, engaged under the PGI Credit for 15 man months, is assisting in
these efforts. In addition, agreement was reached at negotiations that EDL will engage internationally-
recognized auditors acceptable to IDA to audit its financial statements in accordance with International
Accounting Standards (see section C4. h).
C. Future Financial Performance
1. Main assumptions. Weighted-average tariffs within Lao PDR are projected to increase by 50% on January
1, 1999 (in line with the 1997-99 Performance Contract), 20% in 2000 and 2001 (in line with the company's
own projections) and with inflation thereafter. Consumption within Lao PDR is expected to increaseby about
20% pa on average in 1996-2001 due primarily to growth in the number of customers. EDL is expected to
receive dividends from the Theun Hinboun and Houay Ho IPPs beginning in 1998 and 1999, respectively.
Accounts receivable turnover is projected to improve from about 142 days of sales in 1996 (including unbilled
electricity but excluding installation revenues) to 60 days of sales in 2000 and thereafter based on (a)
reduction of EDL's taxes to offset Government arrears (in accordance with the Performance Contract), (b)
implementation of billing and collection improvements and (c) enforcement of cutoffs for non-payment.
Transmission and distribution losses are expected to decline to 20% of power supplied and imported by EDL
by 2000 as a result of the efficiency investments noted above, consistent with the targets noted in Annex 1.
2. Projected Financial Performance. EDL's profitability is expected to improve in 1998 as a result ofthe
recent increase in domestic electricity tariffs. Operating revenues are projected to continue to increase by
30% per annum on average for the period 1996-2001, based on the tariff and consumption assumptions noted
above. Operating expenses are expected to grow in line with inflation and increased power imports.
Operating margins are expected to rise steadily. Similarly, return on partially revalued average net fixed
assets is expected to exceed 10% from 1999 onward.
The October 1997 tariff increase is projected to boost internal cash generation for 1998, relieving the current
liquidity constraint and permitting EDL to service its debt (projected debt service coverage for 1998 is 1.0
times, even allowing for the increase in debt servicing costs due to the depreciation of the Kip). Improvements
in billing and collections are expected also to boost liquidity by enabling EDL to reduce accounts receivable
turnover (including unbilled power). Agreement was reached at negotiations thatMOF will reschedule EDL's
debt payments if necessary in the event of further, sustained depreciation of the Kip.
EDL plans capital expenditures of about US$30-47m in the next four years to extend the domestic network
and to expand generation capacity. Given this investment program, current projections show that EDL will
face severe cash shortfalls if tariffs are not increased in real terms. The proposed tariff increases noted above
are expected to be sufficient to enable EDL to finance its proposed capital expenditure (of which internal
funds would finance over 30%, and long-term debt which has already been identified would finance the
balance). Additional contributions of equity from the Government could be required, however, to help EDL
meet its self-financing covenant in the event that: (a) the Kip depreciates by more than about 75% in 1998
relative to 1997 (to about 2,400 on average); (b) EDL is designated to hold the Government's share in new IPP
projects (e.g. Nam Theun 2); or (c) EDL is unable to implement the tariff increases and other reforms as
planned. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Government will take all actions necessary,
including raising tariffs, to enable EDL to meet its covenants under the project.



-28 -
Annex 6
Lao PDR Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
A. Procurement
1. Procurement methods (Table 6A)
All goods, works and consultant services to be financed under the IDA credit will be procured by EDL in
accordance with World Bank guidelines.' All goods and works procured under International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures will use the Bank standard bidding documents and the Standard Bid Evaluation
Form for evaluation of bids. Similarly, the Borrower will be required to use the Bank Standard Forrn of
Contract for Consultant Services and the Standard Request for Proposals. EDL will provide procurement
information to IDA in quarterly reports indicating: (a) contract awards and purchases; (b) revised contract
prices (if and when increases occur) giving reasons for the changes; (c) updates of the procurement processing
schedule with explanations for any delays in project implementation; and (d) compliance with prior-review
threshold levels and aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
a. Works. EDL will execute the works related to the installation of distribution lines and equipment, and will
finance them through internal sources. IDA will finance small and scattered works executed by EDL through
force account with an aggregate value not to exceed US$40,000.
b. Goods. Contracts for goods valued at $100,000 or more will be let under ICB procedures. IDA will finance
about 8 ICB contracts for goods, including: (a) supply of conductors, (b) supply of distribution transformers,
(c) supply of consumer service equipment, (d) supply and installation of the 11 5-kV subtransmission system,
(e) concrete poles, (f) material for transformers, (g) materials for installation of distribution lines, (h)
operations and maintenance equipment and vehicles, and (i) supply of BACS computer equipment. Provisions
for price adjustment will be incorporated into the contract for supply of aluminum conductors. The bids of
eligible domestic manufacturers (enterprises which are financially autonomous, operate under commercial law
and have the capacity to undertake the proposed work) will be evaluated with a margin of preference
equivalent to the lesser of: (a) 15 percent of the CIF bid price of imported goods, or (b) the actual customs
duties and export taxes. Three domestic manufacturers of concrete poles are expected to meet the eligibility
criteria.
Goods valued at US$50,000-100,000 per contract will be procured under International Shopping (IS)
procedures acceptable to IDA, including procurement of micro-hydro mini-grids. Goods valued at US$
50,000 or less per contract will be procured under national shopping (NS) procedures acceptable to IDA, and
may include: (a) diesel gensets, (b) solar battery charging sets, (c) reticulation and house wiring materials for
the Off-Grid component, (d) office and telecommunications equipment, and (e) spare parts and tools. Use of
NS procedures will facilitate after-sale service, permit direct delivery to the village operators, and encourage
capacity building of local suppliers. Contracts for micro-hydro equipment, diesel gensets and solar battery
charging sets will be grouped if possible. IDA disbursements for goods obtained through IS and NS will be
limited to an aggregate maximum US$0.3m and US$0.9m, respectively.
Consultant Services. Consultancy services estimated to cost US$200,000 or more per contract will be selected
The World Bank, "Guidelines - Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," January 1995, revised January
and August 1996 and September 1997, and "Guidelines - Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers", January 1997, revised September 1997.



-29-
on the basis of Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). QCBS contracts will include: (a) construction
supervision for the Distribution Extension works and goods; (b) installation and implementation of BACS; and
(c) advisory services to MIH and EDL. The salient features of QCBS include: (a) mandatory advertising; (b)
no mandatory associations between foreign and local consultants; and (c) restricted use of sole-sourcing.
Consultancy services estimated to cost US$100,000-200,000 per contract will be selected on the basis of
Quality-Based Selection (QBS) or, where the budget is fixed and the assignment can be precisely defined,
Fixed Budget (FB) procedures. Other consultant services expected not to exceed US$ 100,000 per contract
for firms and US$ 50,000 for individuals, may be procured under Consultants' Qualifications procedures (CQ;
appropriate qualifications and references from an established shortlist) or, in the case of assignments of a
standard or routine nature such as audits, Least-Cost Selection (LC). These may include advisory services to
MIH and EDL on regulatory and technical matters.
2. Prior review thresholds (Table 6B)
Prior review by IDA of draft tender documents, bid evaluation reports and recommendations for award of
contracts will be carried out for all ICB contracts. This will cover over 90 percent of procurement for civil
works and goods. For consultant services, the prior review threshold (for review of the terms-of-reference,
cost estimates, selection criteria, consultant shortlists, requests for proposals and final contracts) are: (a) US$
100,000 for selection under QCBS, and (b) US$50,000 for selection under Consultants' Qualifications and
Fixed Budget. Selective post-review (one in five) of contracts or purchases where costs are below the
thresholds listed above will be carried out by IDA during supervision missions.
The Project Implementation Plan provides a Procurement Plan showing, for each contract, the timing of each
step in the procurement process (See Project Files).
B. Disbursement
1. Allocation of loan proceeds (see Table 6C)
The estimated disbursement schedule is based on the detailed PIP. It reflects Bank/IDA experience with
previous power projects in the region, and assumes a conservative implementation schedule, with a project
completion date of December 31, 2003 and a closing date for the loan of June 30, 2004.
2. Use of statements of expenses (SOEs)
Disbursements will be fully documented, except for contracts for goods below US$50,000 equivalent, works
below US$2,000,000 equivalent and consultant services below US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals. In such cases, disbursements will be made against SOEs. Documents supporting the SOEs will be
retained by EDL for IDA review during supervision missions.
3. Special account
To facilitate withdrawals, a special account will be established on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
The account will be established in US currency with an authorized allocation of US$2.0 million, initially
limited to US$1.0 million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals plus outstanding special commitments
amount to SDR6.0 million equivalent. Based on satisfactory documentation, it will be replenished monthly or
when drawn down by 30 percent of the initial deposit, whichever comes first. The minimum application size
for payments directly from the credit account or for issuance of special commitments will be US$400,000.



-30-
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                             Procurement Method                  Total Cost
ICB            Other 1/        N.I.F.2/  (Including
contingencies)
1. Works
1. Distribution Installation Works                                         2.9        2.9
(by EdL)
2. House Wiring (by EdL)                                                    0.3       0.3
3. Off-Grid Works (by EDL, Villages)                        0.1             0.3       0.4
(0.0)                   (0.04)
2. Goods
1. Conductors                            5.1                                          5.1
(5.1)                                       (5.1)
2. Distribution Transformers             6.4                                          6.4
and Switchgear                        (6.4)                                       (6.4)
3. Consumer Service Equipment            4.5                                          4.5
(4.5)                                       (4.5)
4. Subtransmission System                2.8                                          2.8
(2.8)                                       (2.8)
5. Concrete Poles                         5.9                                         5.9
(5.9)                                       (5.9)
6. Materials for Distribution Installation  3.5                                       3.5
(insulators, braces, brackets, etc.)   (3.5)                                       (3.5)
5. O&M Equipment                         0.5                                          0.5
(0.4)                                       (0.4)
6. Computers & Communications            0.2                0.2                       0.4
(0.2)             (0.2)                     (0.4)
7. Off-Grid Equipment                      -                0.9             0.1       1.0
(Generation and reticulation)                            (0.9)                     (0.9)
3. Consulting Services
1. Financial & Management                                   1.2                       1.2
($0.12m financed under PPF)                                (1.1)                     (1.1)
2. Project Management & Engineering                          1.3                      1.3
($0.27m financed under PPF)                                (1.0)                     (1.0)
3. Off-Grid Advisory Services                               0.1             0.7       0.8
(0.1)                    (0.1)
4. Consulting Services to MIH                               2.2                       2.2
(2.2)                    (2.2)
4. Land Acquisition and Project Mgmt.                                         0.3        0.3
5. Refinancing of PPF                     (0.04)              (0.4)                     (0.4)
Total                                      28.8                5.9            4.6       39.3
(28.8)              (5.9)                   (34.7)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
1/ Other includes IS $0.3m; NS $0.9m; QCBS  $  3.68 m; QBS  $   0.88 m; CQ, FB or LC  $   0.20 m
2/ N.I.F. = Not IDA-financed  (incl. GEF    $  0.74 m; EDL   $   3.54 m;  Villages    $   0.34 m)



-31-
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category Contract Value        Procurement                 Contracts Subject to Prior Review
(Threshold)            Method                       Estimated Total Value Subject
to Prior Review
US $ thousands                                              US $ millions
1. Works            >    10                    FA (for small and scattered works)
2. Goods            >=I00                      ICB                                  28.8
>= 50                     IS
<  50                     NS
3. Services         >=200                      QCBS                                  3.7
>=100                     QBS or FB
< 100 (firms) or          CQ or (for standard or
< 50 (individuals)        routine assignments) LC
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  32.5
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                   Amount                      Financing Percentage
US$ m            SDR m Rounded
(Schedule 1 DCA)
1. Works                         0.04             0.10             80% of all costs
2. Goods                        26.31             19.50            100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory)
70% of other local expenditures
3. Consulting-EDL                1.97              1.50            100% of all costs
(Part C(a))
4. Consulting-MIH                2.02              1.50
(Part C(c))
5. Refinancing of PPF            0.43             0.30             100% of all costs
6. Unallocated                   3.93             2.80
Total                        34.68             25.70
Exchange Rate ($/SDR)          1.3517



-32-
Annex 7
Lao PDR Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$230,000 in FY 97
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              3/96                 3/96
Appraisal mission departure                     12/1/96              2/15/98
Negotiations                                    3/15/97
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   6/15/97
Prepared by: Electricite Du Laos
Preparation assistance: ADB, ESMAP, PHRD
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Wronique Bishop, Mac Cosgrove-Davies,
Enrique Crousillat, Conception del Castillo, Mostafa El-Erian, John Irving, Gaye Lindsey, Glenn
Morgan, Karin Nordlander, Chrisantha Ratnayake, Jamison Suter, Junhui Wu; Peer Reviewers
Doug Barnes, Peter Cordukes, Arun Sanghvi; Consultants, Robert Crump, Bernard Ivory,
Voravate Tig Tuntivate.



- 33 -
Annex 8
Lao PDR Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project.
Documents in the Project File
A. EDL Project Implementation Plan (including Procurement Plan and
Environmental Impact Assessment)
B. Bank Staff Assessments (including economic and financial analyses in electronic
form)
C. Other
Accounting Consultancy Services: Final Report, 1995
Corporate & Financial Development of EDL - Final Consultants' Report, 1997
Country Paper, Lao PDR, 1997
EDL Charter, 1998
EDL Performance Contract, 1998
Electricity Law of 1997
Feasibility Study Reports, 1997
Financial Statements of EDL
Mekong Integrated Transmission System Study (Draft Interim Report), 1996
National Hydropower Sector Paper, 1997
Power Market & Transmission Pricing Studies, 1997
Power Sector Position Paper, 1995
Resettlement Action Plan, 1998
Rural Electrification Sector Review & Policy Formulation for Lao PDR, 1996



Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits                                                                         Gwcned: 02/19n9
Lao PDR
Status of Bank Group Operations in Lao Peoples Democratic Republic
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(As of January 31, 1998)
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                            disbursements a/
Project ID     Credit      Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                IBRD         IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loanis/credits: 13
Active Loans
LA-PE-4210    IDA29430       1997   GOVT. OF LAO PDR                   HIGHWAY IHPROV. III                0.00       48.00            0.00          45.29        1.94       Q.00
LA-PS-4208    IDA28320       1996   GOVT. OF LAO PDR                   LAND TITLING                       0.00       20.70            0.00         18.33          .89       0.00
LA-PS-4209    IDA28210       1996   GOVT. OF LAO PDR                   SAC III                            0.00       40.00            0.00         18.18        20.42       0.00
LA-PE-4200    IDA26740       1995   LAO PDR                            HEALTH SYS. REF. & M               0.00       19.20            0.00         14.21         3.85       0.00
LA-PE-4196    IDA25860       1994   GOVT OF LAOS                       FOREST MGT & CONSERV               0.00        8.70            0.00           6.52        5.08       0.00
LA-PE-4201    IDA26060       1994   GOVT OF LAOS                       H'hAY IMPROVE II                   0.00       30.00            0.00           7.00       -1.15       0.00
LA-PE-4207    IDA25790       1994   GOVT OF LAO PDR                    LUANG NAMTHA PROV DEV              0.00        9.67            0.00           5.71         .92       0.00
LA-PE-4197    IDA24250       1993   GOVT. OF LAO PDR                   PROV'L GRID INTEGRAT               0.00       36.00            0.00           6.12        1.23       0.00
LA-PE-4203    IDA24880       1993   LAO PDR                            EDUCATION DEVELOPHEN               0.00       19.00            0.00         13.33         5.92       0.00
LA-PE-4192    IDA21010       1990   LAO PDR                            TELECOM II                         0.00       24.50            0.00            .20       -2.43       0.00
LA-PE-4195    IDA20790       1990   GOVT. OF LAOS                      UPLAND AGRIC. DEV.                 0.00       20.20            3.55          5.36         7.39     -1.13
Total                                                                                                     0.00      275.97            3.55        140.25        44.06      -1.13
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  129.80              239.98              369. 78
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                 4.54                4.54
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  272.42              228.49              500.91
Amount sold                                        0.00                0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                                140.25                0.00              140.25
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see 00 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 59.0). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, IIU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



MOP Schedule D
Lao Peoples Democratic Republic
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of (as of January 31, 1998)
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Portfolio:                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                  SEF SETTHA               1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:           1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
w



-36-
Annex 10
Country at a Glance
Lao PDR
Lao PDR at a glance                                                               8/28/97
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    Lao      East    Low-
PDR       Asia  Income       Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        5.0      1,726    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                             380       890      500                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                               1.9      1,542    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                        3.0        1.3      1.7     GNP
Labor force (%)                                       2.7        1.3      1.7      p                              Gross
per           ---             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)             46
Urban population (% of total population)               22        31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       52        68       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live biiths)               90        40       69               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             40
Access to safe water (% of population)                 41        49       53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   43        17       34                Lao PDR
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  107      117      105                Lo PDR
Male                                                123       120      112                Low-income group
Female                                               92       116       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1985       1995    1996
Economic ratose
GDP (billions US$)                                    2.4        1.8      1.9
Gross domestic investmenttGDP                  ..     7.0       25.6    30.5              Openness of economy
Exportsof goods and services/GDP               ..     4.0      22.9    23.1    i
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     ..      ..       11.8    11.9
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..      ..       18.6    18.1
Current account balance/GDP                    ..    -2.1       -7.0    -12.0
Interest payments/GDP                          ..     0.0        0.3     0.4      Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..    26.1      122.8   121.9
Total debt service/exports                    ..    12.0         5.8      5.2
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..      ..      42.1
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..    164.5                            Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96    1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                               -     Lao PDR
GDP                                   ..     6.1      7.0        6.8      6.2
GNP per capita                       ..      2.9      3.7        3.7      3.2               Low-income group
axports of goods and services        ..    10.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985       1995    1996       Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)i
Agriculture                                   ..       ..       54.1     51.9    10 T
Industry                                      ..       ..      18.7    20.5                                           _
Manufacturing                                ..       ..      13.8    15.5       4
Services                                      ..       ..      27.2    27.6       2
Private consumption                            ,,      ..        ,.       ,.             01   92   03   94   S5   90
General govemment consumption                  ..       .GDI   -                                             DP
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..      36.7    41.7
197545  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   ..      4.3        3.1      2.3
Industry                                      ..    12.1       13.1      17.0
Manufacturing                                ..    13.6       17.7    18.9
Services                                      ..      6.3       11.4     8.7
Private consumption                            ..     7.3
General govemment consumpton                   ..    -7.4
Gross domestic investment                      ..     0.7
Imports of goods and services                 ..      6.5
Gross national product                        ..      6.1 -     7.0      6.8
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



- 37 -
Lao PDR
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995      1996
Domestic prices                                                                     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         i 40 -
Consumer prices                                 ..       ..       19.7     12.9    30 
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..    64.8        20.2     12.9    20   \
Government finance                                                                  10i
(% of GDP)                                                                           0
Current revenue                                 ..      9.7       12.2     13.0             91   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                          ..    -0.2         2.8      3.1                  GDP def. -1-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..      -.7       -5.6     -4.2
TRADE
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                             ..       ..       313       323      750-
Wood products                                  ..       ..        88      125
Coffee                                         .        ..        21       25
Manufactures                                                     120       92      so T
Total imports (cif)                              .        ..      589       690
Food                                           .        ...                 ..     2500
Export price index (1987=100)                   ..       ..                              90 s    91   92  93  94  95  98
Import price index (1987=100)                    .                                                Exports   is Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..        ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions USS)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..       58       410      427
Imports of goods and services                    .      138       658       769      0   0          2         9 I        so
Resource balance                                 .      -80       -249     -342    !          91   92   93   94   95   95
Net income                                              -18        -7        -6     -5. .
Net current transfers                           ..       47       131       125                              ___
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers              ..     -51       -124     -223      10
Financing items (net)                           ..       71       139       294
Changes in net reserves                         ..      -21       -15       -71      * -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)              ..      ..        93       170
Conversion rate (locatlUS$)                     ..    45.0       804.7    921.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995      1996 
(millions USS)                                                                     | Composition of totl debt, 1996 (mill. US) |
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            44      619      2,165    2,263
IBRD                                               0              0         0                        G
IDA                                           0        27       285      335                                a               |
335
Total debt service                               6        7        26        29                                   C
IBRD                                          0         0         0         0                                  67
IDA                                           0         0         3         3
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                  D
Official grants                              is        15       130                                             405
Official creditors                            5        37        75              |4
Private creditors                             1         0         0         ,              E
Foreign direct investment                     0         0        88              |       1445
Portfolio equity                              0         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0         0        19       61       A-laRD                      E - aiateral
Disbursements                                 0         0        28       60        8- IDA    D - Othr mutilatera   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0         0         1         1      C-IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     0         0        27        59     __ _ _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Interest paymnents                            O         0         2         2
Net transfers                                 0         0        25       57
Development Economics                                                                                                 8/28197



-38-
Annex 11
Lao PDR Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
Government and IDA Experience and Strategy
A. Government Strategy in the Power Sector
Lao PDR has developed an integrated sector investment strategy based on: (a) the development of
hydroelectric projects to supply power for export as well as domestic consumption; (b) interconnection to
the Thai grid; (c) expansion of national electrification. To support investments in both generation
capacity and national electrification, the Government has obtained financing from UNDP, ADB
(Vientiane Plain Rural Electrification Projects I and II, completed; Northern Provinces Rural
Electrification, approved) and other agencies. In recent years, it has also succeeded in attracting private
financing for power generation for export, including Theun Hinboun and Houay Ho, which will
contribute about 350 MW of new capacity within the next two years, and is soliciting private-sector
financing for the proposed Nam Theun 2 hydroelectric plant. Donor support is still required, however,
for development of the electricity network within Lao PDR, as private financing is unavailable for these
investments.
The Government's strategy for national electrification is to extend the national electricity grid, with a
priority on provincial capitals and tourist sites and, where grid extension is not feasible, to develop off-
grid electrification methods on a financially sustainable basis. At the same time, the Government
recognizes the need to raise tariffs to economic levels so that electricity utilities can finance network
expansion and, more generally, operate on a commercial basis.
The Government's medium-term "reach"' target for domestic network expansion is the electrification of
88,000 households by the year 2000, largely through extension of the national distribution grid operated
by EDL. In remote areas where grid extension is not economically viable, cost-effective methods of off-
grid electrification will be piloted, and a plan developed to implement successful pilots on a larger scale.
To achieve these targets, the Government has solicited donor financing from international donors for
domestic power development. It has negotiated with ADB a Power Transmission and Distribution Loan
to extend electrification in the Vientiane plain and the northern provinces (US$58.31 m project cost; US$
30 m ADB financing). Nordic Development Fund will also provide US$ 5.9 m of financing under this
project. The Government has also obtained funding from ESMAP and PHRD for off-grid development,
and applied for a GEF Grant (see PAD for further information).
To complement the electrification efforts in the north supported by ADB, the Government has requested
financing from IDA for a Southern Provinces Rural Electrification project.
B. Bank Experience and Strategy in the Power Sector of Lao PDR
The World Bank Group has been involved in the Lao power sector since the late 1960s. Bank Group
assistance began with administration of a development fund financed by eight countries to construct the
first phase of the Nam Ngum hydroelectric plant (2 x 15 MW), completed in 1971. In 1982, IDA
provided US$15 million (Cr. 1197-LA) for the construction of the third phase of the Nam Ngum power
plant (40 MW). IDA's involvement also helped achieve a revision in the power supply agreement
between the Lao PDR and Thailand in 1981, raising the base selling price from 1.05 US¢/kWh to 3.1
US¢/kWh and adding an automatic annual 9% adjustment. As a result, the export of electric power has
become a significant source of foreign exchange for Lao PDR.
Feasibility studies conducted under the Agricultural Rural Development Phase III Project (Credit 1021-



-39-
LA) estimated electricity demand and assessed least-cost alternatives for the development of electricity
supplies in the southern provinces. Based on these studies, in 1987 IDA provided US$ 25.8 million
equivalent in financing under the Southern Provinces Electrification Project (Credit 1826-LA) for: (a) a
115 kV transmission line between Xeset power plant and Thailand; (b) 22 kV medium voltage lines and
400V/230V distribution lines to electrify rural and urban areas in Savannakhet, Champassak and
Saravane provinces; (c) five substations, at Pakse, Xeset, Selabam, Saravane and Savannakhet; and (d)
expansion of the Selabam hydropower station (2 MW). This project was completed in November 1994,
with highly satisfactory results, including doubling the electrification ratio in the three project provinces
(see Table 1 lA).
To finance the next phase of distribution network expansion in the central and southern provinces, IDA
approved the Provincial Grid Integration Project (Credit 2425-LA) in August 1992. The project's
objectives are to: (a) extend electricity supply in central and southern Lao PDR through extension of the
22 kV distribution networks in Bolikhamsai, Khammouane, Savannakhet, Saravane, Sekong and
Champassak provinces (achieving a 75% increase in connections; see Table 1 IA); (b) interconnect
Khammouane and Savannakhet provinces with the Thai grid through 3 river-crossing lines (115 kV and
22 kV); (c) improve system efficiency; and (d) support institutional development and studies for future
projects. Progress on this project has been satisfactory.
Together, the Southern Provinces Electrification Project and the Provincial Grid Integration provided
service to 500 villages and about 20,000 new households, and have demonstrated that electrification
"significantly increases opportunity for value adding activities" (CAS, p. 20). Experience under these
projects also indicates that EDL has made significant progress in project management. Most of the
physical aspects of construction handled directly by EDL's Projects Office have been carried out
satisfactorily. However, technical assistance for organizational and operational improvement has not
progressed as well. Under the proposed project, substantial technical assistance will be provided to EDL
At a donor meeting in Vientiane in November 1995 (after the fourth regional energy conference) Lao
PDR's expansion plans were reviewed in a regional context. Based on this review, IDA and ADB
developed a strategy to help the Government (a) develop hydropower resources for both domestic and
export markets, (b) expand electricity distribution systems in the main towns and in rural areas, and (c)
strengthen the managerial and technical capacity of the power sector. These objectives were incorporated
into the IDA Country Assistance Strategy for Lao PDR, which calls for an investment operation to
finance "the development of distribution networks to extend grid-supplied electricity to areas where some
economic activity needs to be supported.
Consistent with the CAS objectives, the proposed Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project will
focus on extending grid electrification where economically and technically feasible, piloting off-grid
electrification in areas where it is not, and supporting EDL and MIH in strengthening their ability to
manage the growing power sector within a commercial framework.



-40-
Table 11A. Total and Incremental Connections, SPE and PGI Project Provinces
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994                1995
Total Connections
Champassak     4148   4245   4459   4765   6123   7590   9276   10683              11024
Saravane                                       845   1474   1998   2282             2161
Savannakhet    6561   7247   8383   9337   11130  13309  15163   16794             16794
Lao PDR                                      83400  92900  102900  111200         120100
Households Connected under IDA Projects   Southern Provinces Electrification  Provincial Grid
(ICR)                     Integration (SAR)
Champassak                             649   1564   2632   3510                     5912
Saravane                                       803   1272   1979                     793
Savannakhet                            102   1325   2169   2815                     1950
Sekong                                                                               400
Khammouane                                                                          4354
Bolikhamsai                                                    _                     1129
Total                                                        8304                  14538
C. Road Map for National Electrification
To identify the scope for grid extension under the proposed IDA operation and a similar operation
financed by ADB, internationally-recognized consultants (financed under the IDA PGI credit) surveyed
and examined in detail the cost of grid, expansion in 52 locations in the central and southern provinces
using Swednet software. They selected those locations where construction costs could be kept under
$600/household while still meeting the conditions of suipply and where potential benefits (evaluated as
described in Annex 4) exceeded costs. One additional area, Sekong, was included in the component
although costs exceeded the threshold, because of the Government's policy to electrify provincial capitals.
The design used a comprehensive approach involving low-cost new, technologies such as (a) simplified
115/22 kV substations for rural areas; (b) simplified transformer installations (by using one-pole and
pole-fuse protection systems); (c) center-tapped single-phase LV systems more extensively; (d) more
cost-effective, stronger concrete pole designs to facilitate longer spans on cross-country 22 kV lines; (e)
sectionalizing and auto-reclose facilities to reduce downtime; (f) voltage regulator/capacitor systems to
increase transfer capacity; (g) single wire earth-return (SWER) systems supplied from backbone lines; (h)
bundled LV conductor systems to improve quality of supplies; and (i) centralized metering for remote
villages.
To develop off-grid rural electrification, under the proposed project EDL will pilot the use of promising
off-grid rural electrification systems on a financially-sustainable basis. ESMAP is drafting a Rural
Electrification Strategy, to be reviewed with MIH and EDL during project appraisal. TheStrategy will
provide best practice examples and survey data which will provide a basis for implementing the required
framework for development of off-grid electrification. A resident Off-Grid Adviser (for whom funding
has been requested from GEF) will assist EDL in implementing the program (see PAD section B.3.b). A
Mid-Term Review prepared under the project will provide early indications of successful institutional
structures, financial mechanisms, and technical options. AnImplementation Plan prepared after the Mid-
Term Review will combine these lessons learned with the Rural Electrification Strategy and the
UNDP/GEF pre-feasibility studies, to provide the basis of a follow-on IDA operation.
The distribution extension and off-grid components of the proposed IDA project are expected to result in
the increase of the electrification ratio in the project provinces from 11 .% in 1995 to over 22% in 2003
(Table lI B).



-41 -
Table A11.B. Electrification Ratios, Central and Southern Provinces, Lao PDR
Total 1995   Electrified 1995 (a)  Electrified 2003   Electrified
under SPRE
Province        Households  Households  %       Households % (b)    Households
Bolikhamxai         27,280          500  1.8%         7,080  21.5%           6,580
Khammouane          49,538        7,164 14.5%        14,254  23.8%           7,090
Savannakhet        108,455       16,794 15.5%        32,814  25.0%          16,020
Saravane            41,627        2,161  5.2%        11,061  22.0%          8,900
Sekong              10,092          100  1.0%          540   4.4%             440
Champasak           84,395       11,024 13.1%        22,294  21.9%          11,270
Attopeu             14,619          500  3.4%         2,400  13.6%           1,900
Total, Central/    336,006       38,243 11.4%        90,443  22.3%          52,200
Southern
Provinces
Total, Lao         728,608      111,589 15.3%
PDR
(a) Source: Ministry of Industry and Handicraft, September 1995
(b) assuming 2.4% annual population growth



-42 -
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
PEACE INDEPENDENCE DEMOCRACY UNITY PROSPERITY
POWER SECTOR: LAO PDR
STATEMENT OF SECTOR OBJECTIVES
January 1998
SYNOPSIS
This paper provides a brief overview of the power sector in Lao PDR, briefly
stating the Government's objectives and priorities within the sector and
outlining the policy initiatives for achieving these objectives.
Approved by
Khaamrnone PFhCt~lKEQ
.....................................................
Vitc   k w'At -,
Ministry of Industry and Handicraft
( MIH )
Vientiane   .. 1 1 FEB i1



-43 -
1. BACKGROUND
Lao PDR is a mountainous country with a population of about 4.7 million. over 80% of which lives in
rural areas and is engaged in rice-based agriculture and harvesting of forest products. The narrowly
based economy is one of the least developed in Asia with an approximate per capita Gross National
Product of US$ 400 per amnum.
Continued economic growth is needed to alleviate povczv- and achieve social development goals but
the policy options for achieving this are constrained by the small domestic economy and limited trade
opportunities.
At this stage of development. Lao PDR has only a few :industries in which it enjoys a comparative
advantage in the region; the most important of these is the generation of electricity. Lao PDR has
large, almost untapped, energy reserves, principally hydropower. and a central location in a region
characterized by expanding electricity demand. rhe i.ao power sector is. however, still in its infancy.
The grid serves only 15% of the poDulation. Onl( 217 MW of an estimated 18,000 MW' of
exploitable hydro potential has been harnessed.
The power sector is pivotal in the social and economic development strategy of the Government of
Lao PDR (GOL). Astute investment, both public and private. in generation and transmission assets is
seen as the key to expanding the axailability of lowk co_- reliable electricity within Lao PDR and
earning much needed foreign exchange from export sales .k; the region.
2. GO VERNMENT PO WER SECTOR OBJECTIVES
2.1 Broad Policy Objectives
GOL policy has given particular priority to aevelopment within the power sector as a means of
achieving macroeconomic and social goals. Power sector policy calls for the development of two
types of power projects to meet different market requirements:
-  Small / Medium Proiects (up to about 60 MW): For supplying the domestic market, either by
servicing isolated loads or feeding into the domestic grid systems.
* Medium / Large Proiects (greater than about 60 MW): For meeting export requirements and
adjacent local demand.
GOL has established a priority policy of developing the country's potential energy resources to
provide a low cost source of energy that can meet export and domestic policy objectives as stated
below.
2.2 Expansion of Export Sales
A major constraint to social development in Lao PDR is a lack of Government revenue to finance the
capital and recurrent expenditures needed to establish and maintain social infrastructure. Poor
physical infrastructure and an absence of domestic capital also limit economic development. A strong
and dependable revenue stream is needed to meet budget demands and the central element in GOL's
plan for achieving this is the development of the country -r. nergy resources for export.
lExcludes mainstream Mekong
Page I of 6



-44-
Starting in 1972, Lao PDR hias been exporting modest quantities of electricity to Tlhailand fronm which
it has earned a significant proportion of the country's foreign exchange over that period. GOL nas
been steadily and progressively building hydropower projects to meet domestic and export objectives
but GOL policy is to significantly accelerate the rate of development to generate and sell electricity to
the rapidly growing economies of the region. A market for the power has been established through
Government-to-Govemment Memorandums of Understandin, signed with Thailand for the export of
3,000 MW by 2006 and with Viet Nam for the export of 1.500 to 2.000 MW by 2010.
The capital and expertise needed to implement large power projects is beyond the present resources
of GOL and the development agencies that supiort it. P; ivate sector participation has therefore been
invited with implementation and operation of IPI"- projects Using BOOT- modalities. Under Lao law
GOL equity participation in IPP projects is mandaLed.
A number of promising power developmnent sites have been studied and manv projects identified.
Some will be developed by GOL for the domestic market but the greater activity. in terms of both the
number and size of projects, is to be found among IPP groups pursuing export markets.
2.3 Domestic En erg.) Supplj,
Two features dominate policy with respect to the domestic power sector, viz. electrification within
Lao PDR is among the lowest in Asia. and domestic energy conisumptioni is growing rapidly at 8% to
10% annually. Accordingly, power sector policy focuses oni the basic aim of making suffic.e'l.
reliable and affordable electricity widely available. Consistent with this, the following objectives
currently influence policy in domestic market pcver de-.eClonmnvmt:
*  Expand the EdL customer base thrcugh feasible extensions of the grids to incorporate unserved
population centers.
*  Create and expand industrial opportuniities based on the availability of low cost power.
*  Augment the generating and transmission assets to ~a;isfy demand growlth in the domestic grid.
Domestic generation additions are typically between 5 and 60 MW.
*  Contract with IPP developers for the nurchase of the local supply entitlements to provide least
cost energy for domestic grids.
*  Extend rural electrification through grid extension and off-grid supplies to promote better
socioeconomic conditions within isolated ruraJ communities.
* Explore and exploit mutually beneficial power exchanges with neigthboring countries for least
cost supply to border areas.
*  Reduce dependence on imported fuels for electricity generation by substituting indigenous
sources of energy.
* Reduce dependence on fossil fuels by promoting, wher. practicable, renewable formns of electrical
energy (solar, hydro, wind, biomass).
* Continue the process of institutional restructuring and strengthening to place EdL on a sound
financial footing and equip the bureaucracies to manage power sector development in an
environrmentally and socially productive manner.
2 Independent Power Producer
3BOOT: Build-Own-Operate-Transfer
Page 2 of 6



-45 -
3.  POLICY CONTEXT
3.1   Institutional, Commercial and Legal Framework
Until recently the circumstances in Lao PDR would not have favored an IPP mode of development.
As part of an overall market-oriented restructuring of the Lao economy4. recent changes have been
made to create an investment climate more conducive to the achievement of GOL's objectives.
GOL has refonred the Lao commercial sector to encourag e and regulate foreign capital. In parallel, it
has restructured and commercialized the power sector tc; rnhance regulatory capacity and operating
efficiency. The banking and financial sector has been liberalized and the rules on foreign investment
altered to accommodate new  commercial pressures. A  program  of legislative reform  is being
undertaken to establish a proper legal and regulatorv framework to manage the emerging market
economy. to promote regional cooperation and to protect third parties and the environment from
potentiallv adverse effects of private investment. Amoni( the changes most relevant to the power
sector are:
(a) Institutional
State control of power sector projects has been relaxed -with private sector involvement now
actively solicited by GOL. The Department of Electricity was established within the Ministry
of Industry and Handicrafts (MIH) as an institutional step in the process of electricity sector
restructuring. The Hydropower Office within the Department of Electricity was created as the
planning, management and administration ftoiL  for the IPP program. allowing EdL to
concentrate more on its prime responsibility of domestic electricity generation, transmission
and distribution. The Committee for Investment and Foreign Economic Cooperation was
established within the Prime Minister's Office to administer and coordinate all foreign
investment in Lao PDR.
(b)    Commercial
A number of measures has been taken to commercialize the state-owned national power
utility. Electricite du Laos (EdL). First. tariffs for domestic consumption were increased by
70% as of I October 1997. Second, EdL was corporatized as a public company under a
Charter approved by MIH on 29 December 1997. Third. EdL signed a Performance Contract
with the Ministry of Finance and MIH dated January 7, 1998, which:
(i)    establishes targets for EdL's technical. cc-!tnercial and financial performance.
(ii)   commits the Govemment to actions aimed at improving EdL's financial viability
(including additional tariff increases), and
(iii)   provides for monitoring of compliance by hIH.
Fourth, EdL was reorganized into profit centers and has engaged a Financial Management
Adviser to assist in introducing formal cost accounting and intemal transfer pricing for each
profit center. Fifth, EdL is improviig its accounting and auditing practices. and is engaging
an internationally recognized auditing firm beginning in fiscal year 1997. Finally, EdL has
In 1986 the New Economic Mechanism (NEM) wvas introduced to liberalize tbreign investment. Manm changes in the
institutional. commercial and legal frame%%ork have been made ta f,..:itate the re-orientation of the economny to achieve the
objectives of the NEM.
Page 3 of 6



-46 -
established a Loss Reduction Unit, whichl has identified major sources of technical and
commercial losses, and is undertaking investments to reduce them. These measures are
expected to substantially improve the financial situation of EdL.
(c)    Financial
Before 1988 banks were wlholly state controlled and geared for the needs of the highly
regulated economy. The banking and financial sector has since been liberalized and now
allows foreign-ownled banks to operate. This has resulted in greater efficiency, more
competitive interest rates and a higlher level of domestic capital mobilization. These reforms
have attracted pledges of support from international institutions and confidence in the national
currency (Kip) has increased as a result. Multiple exchange rates were abandoned in 1987 and
price controls have been relaxed.
(d)   Legal
In 1988. GOL embarked oni a program of legislative reformii aimed at creating a legal
environment that encourages and protects investment of foreign capital. Overhaul of the legal
environment continues with recent milestones of relevance including:
- Contract Law (1990)
-  Commercial Bank and Financial Institutions Act (1992)
- Customs Law (1' 994i)
-  LaborLaw(1994)
-  Business Law (1994)
- Foreign Investment Law (1994)
- Secured Transaction Law (1994)
- Water & Water Resources Law (1996)
- Electricity Law (1997)
The recent enacting of the Electricity Law introduced a licensing system by which IPP
developers seeking a sole mandate to develop a power project must apply for a license.
Regulations for the Water & Water Resources Law and Electricitv Law are now being drafled
and these will define many of the concession conditions to be observed under such a license
and provide the necessary machinery to implement the licensing system.
3.2   Future Initiatives
Government policy on future power development divides power generation projects into two types
according to their different market rcquirements and obiectves.
1.    Domestic Generation Proiects: Their principal purpose is to meet domestic demand
growth but can be brought on ahead of need to earn export revenue. Domestic projects
will range typically between 5 and 60 MW and will continue to be developed by GOL.
Page 4 of 6



.47 -
2.    Export Generation Proiects: These projects will be implemented in Joint Venture
arrangements with IPP groups specifically to meet export commitments but may also
supply local demand in the vicinity of the project. The initial objective of the IPP
program is to implement the projects needed to satisfy international obligations under
the MOUs witlh Thailand and Viet Nam. An inveniory of additional projects is being
developed to provide back-up and to meet additional export demand anticipated in the
medium to long term future.
In general, GOL gives preference to power developments that foresee:
*  Limited detrimental impacts to the enviromnent and societies of the project areas.
*  Associated infrastructure and social development in project areas. including environmental
and social management programs and local -lectrification.
*  GOL equity in IPP projects to enlhance returns to the country.
*  Timely implementation.
Transmission plaining in Lao PDR is at an important juncture with several significant issues under
consideration including:
*  Establishment of a Lao National Grid Company:
*  Implementation of the 500 kV line for the wheeling of power from the Nam Ngum basin;
*  Finalization of transmission interconnection arranurements for other IPP projects.
*  Planning for a 500 kV transmission line in - :athern Lao PDR to wheel power to Viet
Nam.
*  Planning for the Jinghong HVDC line connecting the Jinghong Project in Yunnan
Province. PRC. through Lao PDR to the Thai market.
The process of institutional, commercial and regulatory reform will continue. plained highliglhts of
which include:
*  Refinement of the legal and commercial environment is on-going with a number of
initiatives being considered to clarify issues regarding rights of developers and lenders
seek-ing to invest in Lao PDR.
*  The process of commercialization of EdL will continue. Among the initiatives currently
underway are:
(i) implementation of the EdL Chartr and Performance Contract, including
introduction of a tariff indexation mechanism.
(ii) separation of EdLUs export and domestic operations,
(iii) implementation of an improved, microcomputer-based billing and collections
system,
(iv) improvement in its project financial management procedures. and
(v) computerization of EdLUs management information system.
Page 5 of 6



-48 -
As part of GOL's commitment to social and economic development in isolated rural areas, rural
electrification remains a high policy priority. A number of off-grid micro- and mini-hydropower
projects are in various stages of planning and implementation and other forms of renewable off-grid
supplies are being investigated. Such off-grid projects are usually funded by bilateral arrangements
with donor countries and supported by other international organizations. A trial installation of a
photo-voltaic power supply is planned and, if feasible, could open the way for other such investments.
Page 6 of 6



MAP SECTION



CHINA
CHINA
N.       CC hI N  A                                                                                       MYANMAR EA
r'   Jinhong                                                                                       I- ,  22  JAO
r ~ r~ PEOP[C'S/--/
-  HONGS1Y                      V I E T N A M                                        DEWM REP.
0Me>Ir PHONGSALY             -
MYANMARfLUANG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                  - ~~~\VIETNAM
/LUANG  t-   .'_M h                                                                             r      THAILAND          K,
/  BOKEO l): W    No                           Nomouft'  -  N..
QUDOMSAI                                       M =   i  L   |engooi]®> -~  C _.                       ,     CAMBODIA    j
4/0   tIg)Bont 5°i@' OUDOMSAI  }   /          HOUAPHAN                                                 i             - '7
o~ ~be        :                 r     PRABANG
<                      XIJANG                           J             ___XIANG
M   .                  1/ ~ ~~~~~~~             ~ ~~~~ AHOUAG  B..8a Mai15
go       -N~~~~~~~~~\ooo
lSybuy)                                        N-<4> nNNm  ng <_   VIETNAM
j -I./  + .  V                 o g/~             M. 2=k, 
- 2 oS TRANSISSIO  LImNNESu 2NN°e  ._ hu 3< 
M.. M.e                                                                                                                          O   ON,        'N
THAILAND  S                           ogh.i                                              iA 
/   9J            ~~~N-ngkha                                     , s;Lai 
Ud-r I & 11                                 MM UAEek\
LAO  PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC                                                                     Nokhnh2. ,
SOUTHERN PROVINCES RURAL NE                                                                                        i
ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT MPkdChAT  AREE A
EXISTING POWER SYSTEM:               PROJECT TRANSMISSION LINE                                                        1-v
*    II  kIV / 22 kV SUBSTATIONS         PLANNED POWER SYSTEM                           %>  
5 V TRANSMISSION LINES                   THERMAL POWR PLANT 
2            22 kV TRANSMISSION LINES             500/230 V SUBSTATIONS
2    HYDRO DAMS  SSTA5TION ,.L'Gt      t 5
500 kV TRANSMISSION LINES                                            oWSA   VA NE-E, - 
230 kV TRANSMISSION LI~NES                             <            aaoa%xsK               T
RIVERS               I                  IS kV TRAN SMISSION  LN ES                                                 M  i,!0Eeo34\
0   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS             22-35 kV TRANSMISSION LINES   5'  Sk 
SD  PROV NCE CAPITALS               v    PLANNED HYDRO DAMS                                                      x;-        'CD50N 
1Wl NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                  NGf ,q S H   
-PROV NCE BOUNDARIE           S          tEEE EXISTING ELECTRIFICATION AREAS 'F  Hema 
--INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES               PROJECT ELECTRIFICATION AREAS                                     t                      9-y H.;:
OTHER PROPOSED ELECTRIFICATION AREASi                            /         .       lj
.LEI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ w/                                                           :Sl h'                    evJ          i
Thi, -:-p,prd-cd b, he M., Usil .^ Th, W.,ldBn .6--kr- -                                                          C :          )jr
Th bouJd-is -6or, -eoistos:d -nyoth-rihrainson      @\                                                   Kh.qfi 
CAM BO D  IA                     Kk- Ph Pheng
x  02   ,1   lud  Stung st- eng  f*   -   %      isi



