                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 32004

                           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                               (TF-20056 PPFI-Q0950 IDA-30470)

                                            ON A

                                           CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 25.7 MILLION (US$ 34.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           AND A

                                         GEF GRANT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 0.5 MILLION (US$ 0.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                            LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

                                           FOR A

                SOUTHERN PROVINCES RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT




                                         June 14, 2005




Energy and Mining Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2004)

                                        Currency Unit = Lao Kip
                                               1000 K = US$ 0.09393
                                             US$ 1.00 = K 10,646
                                 ELECTRICAL UNITS AND MEASURES
                                           kV = kilovolt (1,000 volts)
                                          kVA = kilovolt-Amperes
                                         MVA = Megavolt-Amperes (1,000 kVA)
                                           kW = kilowatt (1,000 watts)
                                          MW = Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
                                          kWh = kilowatt-hours (1,000 watt-hours)
                                        MWh = Megawatt-hours (1,000 kilowatt-hours)
                                         GWh = Gigawatt-hours (1,000 Megawatt-hours)
                                            km = kilometer (0.6214 miles)

                                               FISCAL YEAR
                                        01 January     31 December

                                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS  Country Assistance Strategy                       OPS    Off-Grid Promotion Support Office
DOE  Department of Energy                              PAD    Project Appraisal Document
DSCR Debt Service Coverage Ratio                       PDO    Project Development Objectives
EdL  Electricité du Laos                               PDP    Power Development Plan
EIRR Economic Internal Rate of Return                  PESCO Provincial Electricity Services Companies
FMAC Financial Management Adjustment Credit            PGI    Provincial Grid Integration Project
FIRR Financial Internal Rate of Return                 PHRD   Policy and Human Resources Development
FRP  Financial Recovery Plan                           PIP    Project Implementation Plan
GEF  Global Environment Facility                       PPF    Project Preparation Facility
GoL  Government of Lao People's Democratic Republic    RE     Rural Electrification
GS   Gen-set                                           RAP    Resettlement Action Plan
ICB  International Competitive Bidding                 SDR    Special Drawing Right
ICR  Implementation Completion Report                  SHS    Solar Home System
IDA  International Development Association             SFR    Self Financing Ratio
LV   Low Voltage                                       SPRE   Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
MIH  Ministry of Industry and Handicraft               SPRE 2 Second Southern Provincial Rural Electrification Project
MOF  Ministry of Finance                               SWER   Single Wire Earth Return
MV   Medium Voltage                                    VEM    Village Electricity Manager
NPV  Net Present Value                                 VH     Village Hydro
O&M  Operation and Maintenance                         WTP    Willingness to Pay



                                        Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                                      Country Director     Ian C. Porter
                                      Sector Manager       Junhui Wu
                 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Jie Tang

                          LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
             SOUTHERN PROVINCES RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
   6. Sustainability                                                                12
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
   9. Partner Comments                                                              16
   10. Additional Information                                                       16
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38
   Annex 8. Summary of Borrower Completion Report for the Project                   39
   Annex 9. Monitoring Performance Indicators for Future Operation                  43
   Annex 10. Additional Details on the Project Description of EdL Components        44

MAP: IBRD No. 28485R

Project ID: P044973                                                  Project Name: LA-SOUTHERN PROVINCE RE
Team Leader: Jie Tang                                                TL Unit: EASEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 14, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: LA-SOUTHERN PROVINCE RE                                  L/C/TF Number: TF-20056; PPFI-Q0950;
                                                                                                     IDA-30470
   Country/Department: LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                   Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Power (82%); Central government administration (15%); Renewable
                            energy (3%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Rural
                            services and infrastructure (P); Regulation and competition policy
                            (P); Legal institutions for a market economy (P); Climate change (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/12/1996                                     Effective: 08/29/1998                08/12/1998
     Appraisal: 02/15/1998                                         MTR: 06/30/2001                  04/11/2002
      Approval: 03/17/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Lao People's Democratic Republic/GoL/MIH/EdL
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala
Sector Manager:                 Junhui Wu                                      Yoshihiko Sumi
Team Leader at ICR:             Jie Tang                                       Veronique Bishop
ICR Primary Author:             Jie Tang; Kurt F. Schenk; Zheng
                                Huang


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project development objectives (PDO) were to (a) expand rural electricity service in seven central and
southern provinces of Lao PDR, where economically justified, through grid extension and off-grid
electrification; and (b) strengthen Electricité du Laos' (EdL) capacity to plan and implement electrification
investments and operate on a commercial basis.

Key performance indicators were (a) increase electrification ratio in project provinces from 11% of
households in 1996 to 20% in 2003; and (b) EdL performance vis-à-vis the Project Implementation Plan,
and EdL and the Government compliance with technical and financial targets in Performance Contract.

The objectives were broadly defined and responsive to the circumstances and strategy of the Government of
Lao PDR (GoL) in the power sector at the time, which included inter alia the expansion of national
electrification, with a priority on provincial capitals and tourist sites, where grid extension is feasible, and
to develop off-grid electrification methods on a sustainable basis where grid extension is not feasible. The
objectives had links to the International Development Association's (IDA) Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS Report No. 115284-LA, January 1996) and indeed the Project supported both the development of
distribution networks to extend grid-supplied electricity to needy areas, and on the institutional front, the
strengthening of the Government's capacity to plan and implement its development program. In addition,
the project supported IDA overarching goal of poverty reduction. Resources provided under the IDA Credit
supported both the physical and institutional components. Global Environment Facility (GEF) involvement
was essential for piloting the off-grid electrification component of the Project.

The objective of improving EdL's capacity to plan and implement electrification investment and to operate
on a commercial basis was realistic and in line with Government's recognition for the need to
commercialize the power sector to harness private investment and improve efficiency, as well as in support
of the Ministry of Industry and Handicraft (MIH) in developing a hydropower power strategy, and building
its regulatory capacity to allow the implementation of the Electricity Law. In 2001, MIH published a
"Power Sector Policy Statement" which crystallized the priority objectives of the Government at the time of
preparing the Project, namely: (i) to expand electrification, (ii) to complete commercialization of EdL, and
(iii) to develop a financing strategy for domestic and export power development.

An assessment of the Project's objectives and design needs to consider the fact that EdL was, at the earliest
stages of Project appraisal (November 1997), already in default with respect to a number of financial
covenants within the by then ongoing Provincial Grid Integration Project (PGI) Credit. Despite promises to
improve EdL's financial situation, including an increase of the domestic tariff, the Government was unable
to prevent EdL worsening financial situation close to a critical level.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The original objectives of the Project were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The Project had three components as defined in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD): (a) Distribution
Extension (refer to Annex 10), aimed at increasing electricity service in seven central and southern Lao
provinces, namely:      Bolikhamxay, Khammouane, Savannakhet, Champassak, Saravane, Sekong and



                                                       - 2 -

Attapeu, and consisting of the construction of about 52 km of high-voltage (HV, 115 kV) transmission
lines, 2x20 MVA of 115/22 kV transformer capacity, 1,200 km of medium-voltage (MV, 22 kV) lines, 900
km of low-voltage (LV, 380 V) lines, 34 MVA of 22/0.38 kV distribution transformers and 50,000
metering installations. It would also pilot the use of a low-cost Single Wire Earth Return (SWER) system
in rural areas; (b) Off-Grid Rural Electrification, which piloted the use of small-scale, stand alone
generation systems such as micro-hydro and diesel mini-grids as well as solar battery charging stations in
remote rural communities on a financially sustainable basis. The intention was to benefit about 4,600
households in 46 remote villages; and (c) Institutional Building which provided consultants' services,
training and equipment to (i) EdL to further increase efficiency by building its project management and
procurement capability, improving its technical planning, and enhancing its commercial focus, and (ii)
MIH for legal, regulatory, technical and planning matters, including hydro power planning studies and
assisting in the implementation of the electricity law.

Key performance indicators for components (a) and (b) consisted inter alia of the electrification of 50,000
households in 3 provincial capitals/districts and 520 rural villages, and off-grid electrification of about
4,600 households in 46 remote villages electrified, respectively.

The design of the Project is considered to be sound; it was under-pinned by adequate technical studies.
The above components directly supported the achievement of the PDOs and were commensurate to the
capacity of the Implementing Agency.

The estimated project costs of US$39.3 million was proposed to be financed by an IDA Credit (US$34.7
million), a GEF Grant (US$0.7 million), EdL internal resources (US$3.5 million), and from village
resources (US$0.3 million). Project procurement was well packaged into 18 international competitive
bidding (ICB) contracts for goods, two of them under supply and installation contracts (for 115 kV
transmission lines and substations). It also allowed International shopping and National shopping. There
were 18 Contracts for Consulting services procured mainly on the basis of Quality and Cost Based
Selection and Fixed Budget procedures.

3.4 Revised Components:

The pilot program of the off-Grid component was more specifically defined during the piloting process and
implementation arrangements modified in view of the alignment of the Power Sector Policy Statement and
the Project objectives. The physical scope of the Distribution Extension Component was also expanded
using cost savings.

For the off-grid component, three key dimensions were developed during the piloting process, namely (a)
quality assurance, to establish a mechanism to assure reliability and customer satisfaction in the long term;
(b) majority uptake, to ensure that most households in each village (as opposed to a small elite of better-off
families) receive electricity supply as a result of their village subscribing to the off-grid program; and (c)
social and economic benefits, to ensure that off-grid electricity help its subscribers to become better off, in
terms of quality of life, and economic opportunity. This was accomplished by paying particular attention to
the design of payment schedules under the hire-purchase arrangement, and the delivery model.

For the implementation of the off-grid program, realignment was made through amendment of the IDA
Credit Agreement and the related Subsidiary Loan Agreement in late 2001 to include a lead role at the
national level for Department of Energy (DoE) of MIH, thus transferring primary responsibility for this
component from EdL to MIH, and relieving EdL from the financial pressure of the off-grid investments that
would be taken out from the on-lending arrangements. During the transition period EdL's Off-Grid Unit
maintained its critical implementation role.


                                                     - 3 -

Cost savings allowed IDA to consider a request from EdL in August 2001 to include a new activity under
the Distribution Extension component to the Project. Approved by IDA in August 2001, the contract for
the new activity was signed in November 2002, in the amount of US$3.902 million. The new activity
consisted of (i) upgrading of the 115/22 kV Paksan substation with 2x16 MVA transformers; and (ii)
constructing a new 115/22 kV outdoor substation at Thakhek with 2x30 MVA transformers and the
erection of a 3 km double circuit steel lattice 115 kV transmission line between the existing 115 kV
Mekong River crossing and the substation site. The new substation and transmission lines were required to
supply the load to be connected to the project, to increase security of supply and to allow for future load
growth, supporting achievement of the PDO.

In addition to the above, other adjustments were made during Project implementation through the use of
project cost savings, including: (i) establishment of a Project Office at Thakhek substation in late 2003 to
expedite construction of the new activity; (ii) procurement of an additional 800 solar home systems (SHS),
to enhance the sustainability and building capacity of the off-grid program, and (iii) additional goods and
services in support of the off-grid program.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

On balance the Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory.            The objectives were consistent with the
Government's goal and CAS electrification strategy to extend EdL's grid, concentrating in the seven central
and southern provinces, and to connect additional households with off-grid technologies in rural villages
which were unlikely to receive grid access in the next 10-15 years. GoL's stated goal at the time was to
increase the electrification for the entire country from about 30% to 90% by 2020. On the institutional side
the Project was in line with Government recognition of the dire need for commercializing the sector to
improve the financial situation as well as technical capacity of EdL. The appraisal team also insisted that
the signing of the Performance Contract ("Contract Plan") between EdL and MIH, which was a condition
of release of the second tranche of IDA's Structural Adjustment Credit, would be a condition of negotiation.

The Project was also in line with IDA safeguard policies. As the Project did not cause any significant
adverse environmental impact, this Implementation Completion Report (ICR) concurs with the selection of
Environmental Category B for this Project. The design of the Project was sound and it included clearly
stated on-grid and off-grid rural electrification targets and key performance indicators. An ambitious goal
for Lao PDR is to connect 75% of rural families to the grid by 2020, and to help at least another 15% to
receive off-grid electricity by that time. Given that many off-grid villages in Lao PDR are highly
inaccessible and most households generally can afford only about 2 dollars per month for electricity, the
achievement of this goal remains very challenging.

The PAD recognized many of the risks associated with the Project, and considered such risks to be modest.
In retrospect, these risks turned out to be substantial. Implementation of the grid extension component
suffered delays of about 16 months mainly due to delays in the delivery of goods, delays in civil works due
to much rain, as well as land acquisition/resettlement issues. Resettlement implementation encountered
several problems including inter alia, the disparity in compensation rates actually paid from those approved
in the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), which reflects the fact that it was the first time for EdL to
implement a resettlement program based on an approved RAP.

In addition, there are two issues for which risk profiles and mitigations measures were not fully developed
at appraisal.   First, the Government's commitment to take action to resolve EdL's critical financial
situation was over estimated, and hence the appraisal team did not include this factor as a critical risk for



                                                       - 4 -

the project. Although financial covenants were included in the PAD, this did not help in nurturing
Government's commitment to resolve EdL's financial crisis. The financial restructuring of EdL, which the
appraisal team should have insisted at the time of project appraisal and which finally was approved in
principle in March 1999, did not get underway till 2000. By the completion of the Project, increasing
arrears by Government departments and agencies were deteriorating EdL's financial position.

Second, the appraisal team did not thoroughly analyze the inability of some villagers to pay grid connection
charges. This "connection charge hurdle" risk turned out to be appreciable during project implementation.
Despite this hurdle, EdL managed to achieve and even surpass the households electrified under the Project
by electrifying more villages than expected at the appraisal, during the time of the extension of the Credit
closing date.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overall outcome of the Project is rated as satisfactory. Despite the impact of the regional crisis and
EdL financial crisis during project implementation, the Project objectives were substantially achieved and
the Project resulted in benefits to the rural population, both grid connected and off-grid electrified, as
demonstrated by the results of a rural electrification socioeconomic survey carried out in preparation of the
follow-on Second Southern Provincial Rural Electrification (SPRE 2) Project.

To gauge the impact of electrification, this socioeconomic survey (November 2004) noted that in monetary
terms, the use of electricity reduces considerably the monthly energy expenses of households, with low
income households saving up to 10,000 Kip per month, representing about 10% of their total income. But
although electrified households do not have a problem in paying the monthly energy bills (10,000-20,000
Kip), many could not afford the connection charge (about 800,000-1,300,000 Kip). As regards poverty
alleviation, the survey found that the low income classes take little advantage of electrification due to a
shortage of dispensable income, and hence the gap between the poor and the more wealthy households
increases with time. The survey sampled about 4,000 households in four groupings and was based on the
parameters used in the survey to gauge poverty reduction (percentage of average income of the poor to the
middle classes' average income, and percentage of the poor class' average income to their total energy
expenses).

A. Objective: Expand rural electricity service in seven central and southern provinces of Lao PDR,
where economically justified, through grid extension and off-grid electrification.

This objective has been satisfactorily achieved.          Through successful implementation of the Grid
Extension and Off-grid Rural Electrification Components, the targets for the number of households
electrified exceeded the original targets--50,000 targeted vs. 51,805 actual for the on-grid component, and
4,600 vs. 4,910 actual for the off-grid component. The electrification ratio in project provinces, a key
performance indicator set in the PAD for measuring this objective, was 38.7% in 2003 and 42% by project
completion, far exceeding the PAD target of 20% in 2003.

The construction of the 115 kV transmission lines and substations as well as the 22 kV, and 0.4 kV lines,
including the additional components,       were successfully implemented (albeit with some delays) and
commissioned before Credit Closing. The target for the number of villages electrified was also exceeded
(number of villages 520 in the PAD vs. 721 actual).




                                                     - 5 -

The pilot program for installation of low-cost SWER systems in rural areas as designed at the appraisal
was successful, with technical standards finalized and conditions for application determined, but it fell
below expectations in terms of length of SWER lines and capacity of SWER transformers connected to the
grid. Only 78 km (target 117 km) of 12.7 kV SWER distribution lines, and 1.5 MVA (target 2.4 MVA)
of SWER transformer capacity were commissioned. The main reason for this shortfall was due to the fact
that as the villages increased in size from the time of appraisal up to the time to implement the SWER
system, villagers and EdL did no longer deem adequate to supply the increased demand of the village by
SWER lines. Villagers preferred instead to have the standard 22/0.38 kV distribution system.

Under the off-grid component, a key objective was the connection of 4,600 households, using a
participatory approach. In addition to exceeding this physical target, this design allowed for a careful
choice by villagers of which individual in the village would become the electricity business managers, the
establishment of a village electricity committee, and individual households to freely choose either opt out of
the program or to become subscribers. This participatory approach yielded an average uptake rate close to
60%. The default rate turned to be zero, that is, no villagers refused payment, although they were
instances of late payments (the aggregate repayment performance rating is about 90%).        A recent report
(September 2004) on Renewable Energy Assessment in preparation of the follow-on SPRE 2 Project,
confirmed that solar power and mini-micro hydropower have the highest potential applicability in Lao
PDR. The uptake of village hydro (VH) systems, and diesel gensets (GS) fell short of expectations.

B. Strengthen EdL's capacity to plan and implement electrification investments and operate on a
commercial basis

This objective was satisfactorily achieved. The institutional building component of the Project provided
consulting services to EdL and MIH in the areas of project management, commercialization and sector
regulation developments. These institutional studies provided the underpinning for the development of a
Lao Power Sector Policy issued in 2002, and for improving project management, supervision, and planning
capabilities of EdL.

Significant achievements in the commercialization of the sector include:

l Successful implementation of EdL's Financial Recovery Plan (FRP) with the achievement of
    substantial increase of tariff levels, which enhanced financial sustainability of EdL and the power
    sector as a whole;
l Improved financial and operating performance of EdL;
l Reduced losses in the distribution networks over the period 1998-2003, from 19% in 1998 down to
    about 16.4% in 2003, but back to 19% in 2004, partially due to fast growth of load;
l Improved capacities for system planning and design, and project implementation at both headquarters
    and branch offices;
l Some integration of headquarters and branch operation through information technology and
    communication systems.

In addition to the original objectives, the project was instrumental in providing preparatory support for the
Nam Theun 2 project (approved on 31 March 2005) in the amount of about US$3.9 million. Project cost
savings supported mainly Legal advisory services, and a Dam Safety and Environmental Panels of Experts
for the Nam Theun 2 project.

At the earliest stages of Project implementation in late 1998, the worsening EdL's financial situation had
reached a critical level. This in fact did have a negative impact on this PDO, which was downgraded to
unsatisfactory in mid 1999. Subsequent actions by both GoL and EdL, including compliance with the


                                                     - 6 -

appraisal requirements of financial management and accounting, followed by the decision on April 10,
2002 to increase electricity tariffs beginning in May 2002 for 36 months, and the revaluation of EdL's
fixed assets, did much to defuse the issue, and the PDO was upgraded to satisfactory in mid June 2002 in
view of the substantial actions undertaken for GoL to fully implement the FRP of EdL.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Distribution Extension. This component was successfully implemented, despite implementation delays,
and is rated as highly satisfactory. It achieved or surpassed all the targets, in particular connecting 51,805
new households to the grid as compared to a target of 50,000 set at appraisal, as shown in the Table below.
Implementation problems were mainly due to late delivery of equipment and mobilization delays by
contractors, heavy rains which delayed civil works, delays with resettlement implementation where
provincial staff did not fully understand the requirements of the RAP or were unaware of its existence, and
weak implementation capacity of contractors.


            Key Performance Indicators                                 Key Performance Indicators
                  Projected in PAD                                      Actual/Latest Estimate**
   l 52 kmc of 115 kV lines                                    l 53.43 kmc of 115 kV lines
   l 1,200 km of MV (22 kV) lines                              l 1,554 km of MV (22 kV) lines
   l 900 km of LV (380 V) lines                                l 1,566 km of LV (380 V) lines
   l 2x20 MVA 115/22 kV transformer capacity                   l 132 MVA 115/22 kV transformer capacity
   l 34 MVA 22/0.38 kV transformer capacity                    l 44.88 MVA 22/0.38 kV transformer
   l 50,000 household connections                                 capacity
                                                               l 51,805 household connections*
*       end of Project
**      it includes the additional components not included in the original project scope and procured from credit cost savings,
        i.e. upgrading of 115 kV Paksan and new Thakhek substations


Through cost savings, the output of this component was expanded beyond appraisal estimates with
additional ones. The 115/22 kV Paksan substation was upgraded with 2x16 MVA transformers; a new
115/22 kV outdoor substation was installed at Thakhek with 2x30 MVA transformers and associated
2.632 km double circuit steel lattice 115 kV transmission line connecting the substation and the existing
115 kV Mekong River crossing.

Off-Grid Rural Electrification. This Component is rated as highly satisfactory (para. 4.1), exceeding its
physical target of 4,600 households. It provided a successful implementation of stand-alone installations,
by means of a hire-purchase arrangement, which allowed villagers who generally cannot afford more than 1
or 2 dollars per month for electricity, and a cost per connection of approximately $300, to avail themselves
of solar home systems (SHS). In this arrangement, users could choose to lease systems for 5 or 10 years
with an up-front payment of about 20 dollars, becoming owners at the end of the period on condition that
all payments have been made. Village Electricity Managers (VEM) investing in VH and/or GS systems,
paid off the cost of hardware in a similar way, becoming owners after five or ten years of making
hire-purchase payments, which so far has operated reliably. This delivery system involved the private
sector--Provincial Energy Service Companies (PESCO) and VEMs--as implementing bodies. It proved to
be sustainable on the grounds that it generated surpluses over and above the costs of supervision,
management, and the costs of incentives to these intermediary bodies to cover field planning, installation,
and maintenance costs.




                                                            - 7 -

After the Credit closing, 4,974 households were connected and paying by January 2005. The ongoing
installation works in the period up to May 2005 would increase the number to 6,097 by May 2005
according to the current plan and resources available. The cost recovery performance was satisfactory,
with prices set at semi-commercial levels, with face-value subsidy at 4%, 14%, 18%, and 29% for 20Wp,
30Wp, 40Wp and 50Wp solar home system respectively, and at 21% and 31% for GS and village hydro
respectively. Customer satisfaction was high and reliability of electricity supply was satisfactory, as
indicated by the lack of defaults on repayments by customers and interviews of the Task Team's field visit.
In the five provinces where private companies were licensed as PESCOs, the overall repayment rate
(customers and all intermediary bodies) was 98% with one month. The 2% shortfall was mostly due to
permitted postponement of payment to a succeeding month. One PESCO was not performing satisfactorily
and its contract was terminated and the customers were taken over by a well performed PESCO.


Institution Building. This component is rated as satisfactory. Under this component consultant services
and equipment were provided to EdL to further increase its project management capability, improve its
system planning and technical design capacity, and enhance its commercial focus, and to MIH to improve
its capacities in hydro power development planning, and the implementation of the electricity law.
Technical assistance to EdL for project management and supervision was satisfactory and allowed EdL to
build in-house capabilities which has significantly reduced EdL's dependency on technical assistance (TA)
for system planning, project design, preparation and procurement. Financial management capacity building
was also considered satisfactory after overcoming difficulties of nonperformance of consultants in early
stage. As a result, the FRP was successfully implemented, and a computerized Billing system and an
Accounting and Financial Management system were set up, which allowed integration of financial
management of EdL's Branch Offices and Headquarters.


Technical assistance to MIH included project implementation support to the Off-grid Promotion Secretariat
(OPS). The TA enabled the newly established Secretariat to perform satisfactorily and with installation
rates exceeding initial targets. A second component of TA included investment and system planning. These
activities are considered highly satisfactory as the recommendations and system tools have been widely
adopted in DoE. The failure of Lao PDR to attract private sector interest in the power sector can mainly be
attributed to wider macroeconomic conditions and the general shortcomings of the investment climate in
Lao PDR. Financial management and procurement were improved with local consultants hired under this
component.


The efficiency in project implementation resulted in achievements of expanded physical outputs and
considerable cost savings, which allowed additional financial resources to support the various TA activities
to advance the preparations of the Nam Theun 2. The Nam Theun 2 Project was approved by the Board in
31 March 2005.


Environment and Resettlement. Although land acquisition was finally implemented successfully, there
were some issues that impacted the implementation of the RAP, including (i) delayed mobilization of
contractors, (ii) delayed approvals of compensation guidelines by some of EdL's provincial offices (e.g.
Savannakhet Province), (iii) insufficient coordination of EdL at headquarters and its Provincial Offices,
where some of them had little knowledge of the existing RAP and believed that no compensation was
required for paddy fields under the transmission lines, and (iv) disparity between the compensation rates
approved in the RAP and that approved by Provincial authorities.    Some Provincial Offices were unaware



                                                    - 8 -

of the existence of the RAP, and the Provincial and District Governments seemed reluctant to change the
current practice with regard to land acquisition and resettlement, which rarely pay compensation for public
infrastructure projects.

In light of impending problems, a detailed action plan was drawn out in early 2003 so that resettlement and
compensation activities would be completed successfully. By October 2003 compensation agreements of
acquiring paddy land, the removal of trees, and other payments to affected houses was signed with each
affected family in the presence of EdL's project resettlement staff, district and village officials. An internal
Monitoring Report (included as part of the Borrower's Completion Report in Annex 8) prepared
independently by a local consultant confirmed that land acquisition and resettlement problems had been
satisfactorily worked out.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Re-evaluation of the costs and benefits of the Project was carried out along the same lines as in the PAD
(see Annex 3). The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) and net present value (NPV) of accumulated
net benefits are estimated as follows:

                                               EIRR (%)                         NPV ($ million)
                                           PAD             ICR             PAD              ICR
1) Distribution Component                22.80%           60.50%         $25.67          $236.84
2) Off-grid Component (SHS)              14.00%           26.01%         $0.070           $2.84
3) SPRE                                  22.40%           59.06%         $26.00          $239.69

The EIRR for the Distribution Component is much higher than the estimation at appraisal mainly because
the willingness to pay (WTP) obtained from the field survey in 2004 is much higher than the estimations at
appraisal (see Annex 3). The EIRR is in line with the economic analysis for the follow-up SPRE 2 project,
for which EIRR is estimated at 79% for grid-extension activities in the same provinces.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

The financial internal rates of return (FIRR) and NPV of accumulated net cashflows are estimated as
follows (see Annex 3):

                                               FIRR (%)                         NPV ($ million)
                                           PAD             ICR             PAD              ICR
1) Distribution Component                 3.01%           6.52%          -$10.43          -$1.07
2) Off-grid Component (SHS)              13.00%          -15.94%         $0.056           -$1.18
3) SPRE                                   3.60%           6.04%          -$10.20          -$2.25

The FIRR for the off-grid SHS activity at ICR departed largely away from estimation at appraisal mainly
because (i) the actual operational cost for future years of this program was much higher than estimation at
appraisal; and (ii) project cost was about 10% higher than estimation at appraisal. The business model for
the off-grid electrification by SHSs was set-up and refined during the piloting process, and the operational
cost of the supply chain (from MIH to PESCOs to VEMs to customers) could not possibly be well
estimated at appraisal, nor the cost of international consultants for technical assistance in setting up and
implementation of this business model, which was proved successful in achieving the PDO.




                                                     - 9 -

The reason for the much higher economic rates of return than those financial rates is due largely to the
consumer surplus. Basically, only the supplier surplus is captured in the financial benefit.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Overall, the Project's institutional development impact is rated as high. The Project made it possible for
EdL and GoL to make more effective use of their resources, to improve efficiency of their operations, and
to push EdL and GoL towards commercialization of the sector. Specifically, the following was carried out
under the Project: (i) GoL Statement of Power Sector Objectives issued as a Policy Statement which
assisted GoL strategy to advance economic and social development, including developing and enhancing the
legal and regulatory framework to effectively direct and facilitate power sector development, and
maintaining and expanding affordable and reliable electricity supply; (ii)       Hydropower Development
Strategy Study which provided inputs for the Power Sector Policy and its implementation plan; (iii)
significant domestic tariff increases were made effective in February 1999 and subsequently readjusted
placing EdL on a more solid financial footing; (iv) implementation of EdL's FRP which made it possible
for EdL to meet its financial covenants pertaining to self-financing ratio, debt service coverage ratio and
debt equity ratio for the first time in 2003; (v) implementation of a Performance Contract ("Contract
Plan") to be renewed every three years, with the first Contract Plan of FY01-03 approved on August 2001,
binding EdL to performance targets as well as obligations of the State, which are instrumental in the
commercialization of the sector; and (vi) preparation of EdL's Power Development Plan (PDP) for
investments till 2010, as required by the FRP.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Macroeconomic instability at the time of Project commencement became a serious threat to the PDO,
with GoL being unable to implement the FRP early in the Project. The end result was the financial
situation for EdL became very critical and continued to deteriorate till the FRP was finally implemented in
late 2002. There was a fast depreciation of Kip vs. USD in the early stages of the project implementation;
however, since 76% of the project cost was foreign and 24% local, the total cost of the originally designed
components was still under-run.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

EdL's critical financial situation at the beginning of Project commencement and GoL delay in
implementing the FRP for EdL caused the PDO rating of the Project to be downgraded from Satisfactory to
Unsatisfactory in mid-1999, which caused IDA to issue a message warning of suspension of disbursements.
The Project was upgraded to Satisfactory in mid 2002, only when substantive actions were taken by GoL
regarding tariff increases and the implementation of the FRP. The high devaluation of the Kip at the
beginning of the Project and its effect on Government cast some doubt at the time about Government's
commitment to support an effective commercialization of EdL, and strongly impacted EdL's financial
situation. There was an apparent lack of leadership and decision making capacity within Government
during 1998/1999 which caused delays in the implementation of the FRP. However Government
commitment resumed and the FRP was finally implemented in 2002. Counterpart funds were sufficient to
implement the Project. Staffing by GoL was satisfactory. The Government took over the implementation of
the off-grid program and achieved beyond its original households electrification targets.




                                                     - 10 -

EdL's financial problems could not be addressed by EdL alone, and were in fact linked to the worsening
macroeconomic environment and GoL financial support. The country suffered a massive depreciation of its
currency in 1997, linked to the financial crisis in the region, with inflation at triple-digit levels. By January
1999, the value of the Kip had fallen to less than 30% of its July 1997 value, and inflation had shot up over
150% on an annual basis. It was noted at the time that the situation was aggravated by the lack of
leadership and decision making in GoL for a period of time in late 1998 and early 1999. A complete
revamping of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) took place in mid 1999. In response to the lack of progress at
the time to implement the FRP, IDA informed both the Government and EdL of its intention to consider the
Government and EdL in default of its financial obligations and would take measures to suspend further
disbursement from the Credit.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Good Project Management. Despite the economic crisis and EdL's financial difficulties, the MIH and
EdL, supported by the Project's Consulting Engineer, did a reasonably good job in coordinating various
activities and the work of the contractors, even in the face of great uncertainty, financial difficulties, and
implementation delays. The management effectiveness ensured achievements beyond the on- and off-grid
electrification targets through the effective use of cost savings.

Procurement Performance. Procurement was carried out satisfactorily in line with World Bank guidelines.
However, delays in procurement and delivery of off-grid equipment resulted in delayed completion of the
off-grid program, which required the extension of the Credit closing date by six months. During the IDA
credit extension period, MIH successfully undertook the first ICB procurement with assistance from the
Association. This task, not envisioned at the time of Project Appraisal, was essential in building the
procurement capacity within MIH and in managing future procurement activities for up-scaling the off-grid
electrification program.

Good Beneficiary Participation in Off-grid Electrification. Beneficiary participation in the off-grid
program was significant, with implementation primarily driven by the beneficiary. The beneficiary also had
choices of sizes of system and options of hire-purchase contracts. The beneficiary also participated in
supply of spare parts, maintenance of operational SHS, and collection of re-flows under the hire-purchase
contracts.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The estimated total Project cost at appraisal, excluding taxes and interest during construction, was
US$39.30 million equivalent. The latest estimate of the actual project costs is US$40.81 million, 105.39%
of the cost estimated at the appraisal. Including interest during construction, total actual project financing
was US$41.41 million, as compared to US$39.3 million at appraisal. The IDA Credit provided US$34.38
million, compared to US$34.68 million at appraisal. GEF provided US$0.74 million as originally planned.

Significant cost savings (25.6%) were achieved during Project implementation mainly due to (i)                  a
reduction in the costs of materials and equipment against appraisal budgets due to efficient and effective
ICB/International Shopping procurement; and (ii) benign macroeconomic condition for procurement as a
consequence of the Asia crisis. This cost saving allowed expansion of the Grid Extension and Off-grid
Electrification Components as described in Section 4, and provided resources to support Nam Theun 2
preparatory work.




                                                     - 11 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

On balance the project sustainability is rated as likely. The Project has been constructed in a technically
sound manner and it is expected that EdL would operate and maintain it effectively, and that MIH would
continue to support the off-grid component. The physical sustainability of the Project is considered assured
in view of the nature of the investments in transmission lines and substations.          EdL's designs and
construction practices have evolved with expatriate consulting experience and are considered best practice
for network development. The same holds true for the off-grid component whose technologies are proven,
and the hire-purchase model derived a very high rate of reflows from operational customers--almost 100%
collection within about two months. The physical component of the project forms part of EdL's least cost
development plan and has robust returns. The Project would, therefore, be economically sustainable. The
Performance Contract between Government and EdL would continue to monitor and strengthen EdL
performance, and the completion of the implementation of the Billing and Accounting system and Financial
Management system under the Project would assist EdL in its commercialization efforts. The institutional
building measures under the Project which include financial management and commercialization support
are already bearing fruit.

Financial Sustainability. At Project completion, most of the financial covenants were complied with
except for EdL's accounts receivable. After years of effort, the Project was on sound footing by end 2004:
the Self Financing Ratio (SFR) was above 30%, Debt Equity Ratio remained less than 1.5, and the Debt
Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR) kept above 1.5.

However, sustainability of the project would be impaired if EdL's receivables continue to be unsatisfactory.
EdL's accounts receivable were at about 5 months in 2004 compared to the covenanted target of 2 months.
This was particularly due to past due arrears of various Government ministries and agencies, more than
US$12 million, representing about 19 months' receivables. At the recommendation of IDA, an Action Plan
for Efficiency and Sustainability which included recommended actions for settlement of Government
arrears was proposed to GoL and GoL's response was positive. A successful resolution of the government
arrears has been set as a condition for the Board Presentation of SPRE 2.

It is also foreseen that starting in 2005 the SFR and DSCR of EdL would drop below the covenanted levels
if EdL invests in generation and transmission projects according to EdL's PDP formulated in August 2004.
At negotiations of SPRE 2, agreement would be reached that the Government would take all necessary
measures including but not limited to raising electricity tariffs, to ensure that EdL meet the financial
covenants as follows: (a) maintain a self-financing ratio of no less than 30% of three-year average planned
capital expenditures; (b) maintain net revenues of no less than 1.5 times annual projected debt service
payments; and (c) maintain the ratio of its long-term debt to no more than 1.5 times its equity.

The Action Plan addresses Government arrears as well as the tariff issue and loss reduction in an integrated
approach. GoL's endorsement and implementation of the Action Plan will be critical for achieving a
stronger financial position of EdL and sustainability of the power sector as a whole, within which the
Project is being operated. Given the prospects of ensuring commitments on the above measures through a
follow-on operation, the probability of the Project's maintaining the achievements generated so far is likely.




                                                     - 12 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

All the facilities under the Project are now fully operational and became part of EdL managed power
systems spread over the country. There is a strong institutional framework within the provinces for the
operation and management of EdL's distribution network. The general day to day operational management
of the network has been devolved to EdL's Provincial Offices, which are well staffed, adequately trained
and equipped to carry out this task. It is expected that EdL would provide sufficient resources in its budget
to operate and maintain its system safely and reliably. The signing of the new Performance Contract for
2004-2006 with GoL would also ensure EdL continued good performance. In addition, agreement has been
reached with IDA for future monitoring of the Project (Annex 9) for both the on grid and off-grid
components. This monitoring can be undertaken during the supervision of the follow-on SPRE 2 project.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Association performance in lending was satisfactory. At the identification stage the task team ensured
that the project objectives and scope were consistent with both the Government priorities and the IDA CAS.
Bank assistance during Project preparation as well as appraisal was satisfactory. IDA provided adequate
expertise in assisting EdL in the technical preparation of the Project. In view of the deteriorating operating
performance of EdL, which at the time of project preparation was already in default with respect to a
number of financial covenants agreed under the previous PGI Credit, the appraisal team wisely insisted that
the signing of a Performance Contract between EdL and MIH ("Contract Plan") be made a condition of
negotiations. The Association maintained a substantial dialogue with EdL, MIH and MOF on measures to
improve EdL's financial health and to restore compliance with financial covenants and agreements.

7.2 Supervision:

The Association performance in supervision was highly satisfactory. Although the project task managers
changed four times during Project implementation, Bank supervision performance was consistent and
satisfactory. The team established a very close and effective working relationship with GoL/MIH and EdL.
The frequency, timing, duration and skill mix of the supervision missions are considered adequate.
Identification of critical issues and actions to overcome them were timely and effective. The supervision
aide-memoires were well prepared with detailed findings and recommendations recorded. Follow-up letters
were sent to the borrower on a timely basis. Project Status Reports were updated regularly and were
reasonably comprehensive.

In view of the critical situation facing EdL at the early stages of implementation coupled with the severe
impact of the foreign exchange devaluation on EdL operating performance, and the Government delay in
implementing the FRP, the task team was reasonably responsive and urged the Government to implement
the FRP. The technical assistance provided was timely, including providing assistance in developing a
financial model so that EdL could prepare more realistic financial projections. In addition, while the task
team was reluctant to downgrade the PDO to Unsatisfactory right at the start of implementation, it acted in
late 1999 in view of the continuing macroeconomic instability and persistent deteriorating financial
situation of EdL. It kept close track of the situation, and the Government and EdL was put on notice that
the Association would consider declaring them in default of their financial covenants and consequently
suspending further disbursements from the Credit till the FRP is implemented.



                                                    - 13 -

Resettlement and Land Compensation was one aspect of the Project that did not work initially as smoothly
as envisaged at appraisal. Information about the RAP was not transmitted to Provincial Offices by EdL as
anticipated and as had been agreed between EdL and the Association. When the situation became evident,
the supervision team intensified its efforts on this matter to make certain that all Provincial Offices were
aware of the requirements of the RAP and these efforts proved to be successful at the end.
The Task Team was responsive to extension of the credit closing date by six months to pick up the
apparent slack in household connections in electrified villages and install additional SHS. The Task Team
worked closely with counterparts on preparation, implementation and monitoring of work plans for the
extended implementation period.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
On balance the Association's overall performance is satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance in preparation was satisfactory. There was close cooperation during
preparation between the Government, EdL and the Association. The strong commitment of the Government
and EdL to promoting energy services to the project areas was key to gaining IDA credit and GEF support
for the project. The extensive and effective support provided by the counterpart was essential to the
successful completion of the project design and readiness for implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

On balance, the Borrower's performance in implementation was satisfactory. Despite unforeseen changes
in implementing agencies for the off-grid program, the Government maintained strong policy support and
continued leadership of the project. But the FRP was substantially delayed as no action was taken during
the 1998/99 period. However, after reorganization, Government made timely and effective responses and
actions regarding key implementation issues, including mainly implementation of the FRP and Performance
Contract with EdL, change of implementing agency and policy and regulatory decisions for the off-grid
program, allocation of adequate resources for implementation, and extension of credit closing date.
Settlement of Government arrears remains a pending issue, which has resulted in the covenanted account
receivable unsatisfied so far.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The implementation performance of both implementing agencies, namely, EdL and MIH was highly
satisfactory.   They both worked closely with the task teams and consulted with Bank staff regularly
regarding major issues. They both remained committed to the Project, despite initial problems with the
macroeconomic situation and EdL's financial performance. They showed flexibility when it was deemed
expedient to realign the off-grid component to transfer primary responsibility for this component from EdL
to MIH, which eventually did facilitate orderly planning and expansion of the off-grid activities and
contributed in no small measure to its success. The required audits of the Project and associated GEF
Grant Project Financial Statements, Special Accounts, and statements of expenditures were given
unqualified opinions by      the auditor, PriceWaterhouseCooper. Their actions against delays and the
compensation issue associated with the Grid Extension were effective and satisfactory. They planned and
requested extension of the credit closing date on time and achieved beyond targets of project outputs and
the PDO within the agreed period with significant cost savings.



                                                    - 14 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


Overall, the performance of Borrower is rated as satisfactory. EdL, MIH and Government showed
commitment to the project and followed through to ensure its successful implementation and operation.


8. Lessons Learned

(a)     Over-optimism regarding Government commitment to EdL's financial restructuring caused a delay
        in the Government proposing and implementing the FRP for EdL. For future projects, a more
        comprehensive risk assessment must analyze this aspect thoroughly;
(b)     The elasticity of the connection rates to the up-front house-wiring costs is highly negative, and
        needed to be taken into account in the Project's design.       A House Wiring Affordability Action
        Plan, which would reduce prices faced by customers through increasing competition and price
        regulation, and make provisions of term payments by the poorest 20% of customers for house
        wiring costs, has been introduced in SPRE 2;
(c)     Charges by private firms to connect households to EdL grid after electrification villages need to be
        regulated;
(d)     Cost savings are achieved with optimized grid-extension designs, good Project Management and
        efficient procurement;
(e)     Investments in loss reduction are effective; enhanced measures, including inter alia use of
        state-of-the-art software and hardware and project evaluation technologies for reducing technical
        losses, have been introduced in SPRE 2;
(f)     The use of SWER system needs to match better the demand growth, so that the system is well
        tailored to the demand need when commissioned. Rural electrification with SWER is a cost
        effective method of extending the electricity grid to rural areas;
(g)     As regards implementation of the RAP, it is important that all stakeholders, including project
        affected people, be involved in the consultation process so that everyone including district and
        provincial authorities are fully informed about the RAP requirements;
(h)     Problems which largely arose out of OPS's position as a government office, such as delay in
        centralized procurement, lack of effectiveness in management of non-performing PESCOs, could
        be overcome through contracting out the OPS' daily operational functions for the off-grid program.
        This lesson has been incorporated in the design of SPRE 2;
(i)     The existing delivery model for off-grid electrification could be further improved with a
        streamlined middle-man arrangement to reduce associated cost, and introduction of a monitoring
        and evaluation system for quality of services, and incentives based on performance;
(j)     Financially, the off-grid component has found that the private sector in Lao PDR is unwilling to
        make long-term capital investments, although it will contribute working capital;
(k)     The strong bias towards the use of SHS technology should be countered by a more aggressive
        effort towards technology diversity in off-grid solutions;
(l)     Some income generation activities linked with SHS electrification were found in remote villages,
        including family business for the supply of spare parts, sewing shops working in evening hours
        etc. More aggressive efforts, including inter alia demonstration projects, awareness campaigns,
        towards income generation would promote affordability thus enhance financial sustainability and
        social benefits of rural electrification projects.




                                                      - 15 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Borrower's comments were incorporated in the ICR. The Borrower accepted the findings and
assessments of the ICR.


(b) Cofinanciers:

The GEF also rated the project as satisfactory. The Interim Review carried out in December 2003 under
the GEF program concluded that "Overall, the project is assessed as Satisfactory...; the project is
assessed as Satisfactory as regards its sustainability".

The Interim Review also pointed out that the off-grid component has performed well against the GEF
evaluation criteria. It has developed a successful model for rural electrification in Lao PDR that has learnt
from and built on the experience of previous projects and the early stages of the component. The model has
been successful in building stakeholder participation and ownership. It has delivered a large expansion in
electrification, exceeding target levels, and provides a strong basis for the future expansion of this program.
It has also created a base of skilled and trained staff and institutions. Well-developed and effective
procurement, monitoring, management and financial systems are in place, although there are some
problems, largely arising out of OPS' position as a government office, in their practical
implementation--this concern is addressed under the SPRE II project through contracting out the OPS'
daily operational functions for the off-grid program.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

Additional information about outputs and outcomes of the GEF financed off-grid piloting program is
provided in the attached reports:

1. Interim Evaluation of Off-Grid Renewable Energy Electrification Pilot Demonstration Project,
    December 30, 2003;
2. GEF MSP Project Completion Report, April 2005.

End Notes:
[1]      The SHS in stock procured under the Project are sufficient for connecting 1,187 additional
households. With assistance from a GEF grant (Project Development Facility B) under the proposed SPRE
2 project to cover continued installation of these SHSs following the Credit closing on December 31, 2004,
the total number of households electrified under the Off-grid Rural Electrification Component would
achieve 6,097 by the end of May 2005, out of which 5,888 households would be with SHSs.




                                                     - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase electrification ratio in project    42% in January 2005                            38.71% in December 2003; and 42% in April
provinces increase from 11% in 1996 to 20%                                                  2005
in 2003.

EdL performance vis-a-vis Project            PIP performed.                                 PIP performed.
Implementation Plan (PIP) timetable.

EdL and Government compliance with           1. EDL System Loss: 20.71% in 2004;            1. EdL System Loss will remain about 20% in
technical and financial targets set in       2. Government Payment: Government              2005. It is expected to be reduced to 14 -
Performance Contract:                        arrears about 19 months;                       12% with a comprehensive Loss Reduction
1. EdL System Loss: less than 16%.           3. Tariff Increase: The GoL agreed to          Program to be implemented under the
2. Government Payment: Ensure that           increase the Electricity Tariff, effective May follow-up project SPRE 2;
Government arrears to EdL do not exceed 75 2002. A new Tariff increased at an average       2. Government Payment: Government
days for 1998 and 60 days from 1999          of implementation (excluding category 2        arrears about 19 months in 2004. It is
onward.                                      "Diplomatic-International Organization") over expected to be reduced to within the
3. Tariff Increase: Raise EdL's tariffs for  a period of 36 months (or up to FY05),         covenanted 60 days under the
sales within Lao PDR as follows: at Least    however, these Tariff adjustments were         implementation of the SPRE 2 project.
50% by January 1999 and quarterly            suspended in June 2004.                        3. Tariff Increase: The GoL and IDA are
indexation commencing in January 1, 1999.                                                   discussing the implementation of an Action
                                                                                            Plan for Efficiency and Sustainability of
                                                                                            Power Sector based on findings of the
                                                                                            recently completed (December 2004) EdL
                                                                                            Tariff Study by international consultants.
                                                                                            Government agreed in principle in
                                                                                            implementing the agreed Action Plan over the
                                                                                            SPRE 2 project period, June 2005 to June
                                                                                            2011, with the first tariff increase in mid
                                                                                            2005. The Plan under discussion now aims
                                                                                            at a gradual tariff increase of 1.6% per year,
                                                                                            to achieve a 4% of rate of return on re-valued
                                                                                            assets of EdL up to end 2011 and to
                                                                                            minimize cross-subsidies among consumer
                                                                                            categories.




                                                                 - 17 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. of households electrified through grid     51,805 households in 721 rural villages.   51,805 households in 721 rural villages.
extension: 50,000 households (changed to
51,770 at Credit effectiveness) in 3
provincial/district capitals and 520 rural
villages.


No. of households electrified and off-grid     4,974 households.                          6,097 households by May 2005
systems installed: cumulative 4,600
households


Improved financial and operating               a. 5 months by end 2004.                   a. about 5 months now.
performance of EdL:                            b. 20.71% in 2004.                         b. about 20% in 2005.
a. Account receivable turnover declines from   c. 4.7% in 2004.                           c. 4.8% projected for 2005.
4.7 months in 1996 to 2 months in 2000 and
thereafter;
b. System Loss from 30% in 1996 to 20% in
2000;
c. Return on net revalued fixed assets in
operation of 8%.


Installation of:                               Installation achieved by end 2004          Installation achieved finally:
a. 52 km of 115kV lines;                       a. 53.43 km of 115-kV line                 a. 53.43 km of 115-kV line
b. 1,200 km of MV (22kV) lines;                b. 1,554 km of MV line;                    b. 1,554 km of MV line;
c. 900 km of LV (0.38 kV) lines;               c. 1,566 km of LV line;                    c. 1,566 km of LV line;
d. 2x20 MVA 115/22 kV capacity;                d. 2x20, 2x30 and 2x16 MVA 115/22 kV       d. 2x20, 2x30 and 2x16 MVA 115/22 kV
e. 34 MVA distribution capacity.               capacity;                                  capacity;
                                               e. 44.88 MVA 22/0.4 kV and 1.282 MVA       e. 44.88 MVA 22/0.4 kV and 1.282 MVA
                                               12.7/0.23 kV distribution capacity.        12.7/0.23 kV distribution capacity
Implementation of:                             a. implemented on yearly basis;            a. implementation on yearly basis;
a. financial auditing procedures;              b. implemented with a computerized         b. implementation with a computerized
b. cost accounting systems;                    accounting system;                         accounting system;
c. appropriate billing and collection methods; c. a computerized billing and collection   c. a computerized billing and collection
and                                            management system under roll-out to branch management system under rolled out to all
d. nontechnical loss reduction.                offices;                                   branch offices by 2005;
                                               d. System installed and operational, TA on d. become EdL routine practice, with a much
                                               training completed.                        more aggressive action plan under the
                                                                                          follow-up SPRE 2 project.

1End of project




                                                                  - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                        Component                          US$ million   US$ million
A. Distribution Extension                                    27.30          31.22          114.35
B. Off-grid RE                                                2.00            2.21         110.45
C. Institutional Building                                     5.00            7.39          147.8

Total Baseline Cost                                          34.30          40.82
 Physical Contingencies                                       2.00
 Price Contingencies                                          3.00
                         Total Project Costs                 39.30          40.82
                           Interest during construction                       0.60
                   Total Financing Required                  39.30          41.42




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB               2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                            0.00             0.00         0.08         3.50         3.58
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.04)         (0.00)      (0.04)
2. Goods                           28.76             0.00         1.10         0.07        29.93
                                  (28.72)           (0.00)      (1.07)         (0.00)     (29.79)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00         4.77         0.71         5.48
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.42)         (0.00)      (4.42)
4. Land Acquisition and             0.00             0.00         0.00         0.31         0.31
Project Management
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Refinancing of PPF               0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
                                   (0.04)           (0.00)      (0.39)         (0.00)      (0.43)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                           28.76             0.00         5.95         4.59        39.30
                                  (28.76)           (0.00)      (5.92)         (0.00)     (34.68)




                                                 - 19 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category              ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00              6.42             0.00              6.42
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.04)            (0.00)           (0.04)
   2. Goods                                25.11              1.44              0.38             0.00             26.93
                                          (25.11)            (1.30)            (0.38)            (0.00)           (26.79)
   3. Services                             7.90               0.15              0.00             0.00              8.05
                                          (7.39)             (0.12)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (7.51)
   4. Land Acquisition and                 0.00               0.00              0.02             0.00              0.02
   Project Management
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Refinancing of PPF                   0.00               0.00                               0.00              0.00
                                          (0.04)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.04)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               33.01              1.59              6.82             0.00             41.42
                                          (32.54)            (1.42)            (0.42)            (0.00)           (34.38)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. Distribution Extension     28.54         3.88                    25.60         6.30                  89.7     162.4
B. Off-grid Rural              1.00                      0.74        1.39                    0.74       139.0             100.0
Electrification
C. Institutional Building      5.14                                  7.39                               143.8
Total                         34.68         3.88         0.74       34.38         6.30       0.74       99.1     162.4    100.0




                                                          - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

1       Distribution Extension Component

1.1     Summary of Benefits and Costs

Economic benefits: the sum of both consumer surplus and supplier surplus. The estimate of consumer
surplus is based on conclusions of the Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD)
supported Social and Economic Survey of households in the project area ­ the seven southern provinces.
The survey was completed in November 2004 for studying the economic and social benefits of the
follow-up project SPRE 2. The net difference of the electricity sales revenue and cost of energy supply is
taken as a proxy of supplier surplus. Other social and environmental benefits are not quantified under this
study.

Economic cost: (a) project investment costs during the period 1999-2004; (b) incremental operation and
maintenance costs due to the Project, as recorded for the period 1999-2004 and best estimated for future
operational years; and (c) the long-run marginal cost as the best estimated cost of energy for future
operational years.

Financial benefits: incremental sales revenue to EDL, i.e. average household consumption times the tariff
level applicable to that level of consumption.

Financial costs: (a) project investment costs during the period 1999-2004; (b) incremental operation and
maintenance costs due to the Project, as recorded for the period 1999-2004 and best estimated for future
operational years; and (c) costs of energy (generation and HV transmission) as recorded by the Borrower
for the period 1999-2004 and best estimated for future operational years.

1.2     Economic Rate of Return

1.2.1   Main Data and Assumptions

The economic rate of return was calculated on the basis of incremental economic cost and benefit streams
associated with the Project, as compared to a "without project" case.

(a) Tariff. According to conclusions of the PHRD financed EdL Tariff Study [EDL Tariff Study Final
Report, Electrowatt-Ekono Ltd. (Switzerland) and Fichtner Engineering Service (Germany), December
2004]for preparation of the SPRE 2, EdL was providing electricity services below cost recovery level and
the residential consumers were heavily cross-subsidized by other categories of consumers. IDA
recommended an Action Plan for Efficiency and Sustainability of the Power Sector (see Annex 7), which
suggested a gradual tariff adjustment to achieve a rate of return on re-valued assets of 4% at the end of a
six-year implementation period 2005-2011 and minimize cross subsidies among consumer categories. This
results in a 1.6% increase in real terms of EdL's average tariff, which was 514 Kip/kWh or
US$0.0483/kWh in 2004 (see Table 1).




                                                   - 21 -

                Table 1 EdL Tariff and Recommended Adjustment under SPRE 2

Average                                                                                                Ave. Annual
EdL Tariff                  2003       2004  2005   2006    2007    2008     2009     2010    2011     increase, real
1) Residential                          380   401     423    447     472       500     528      557        5.6%
2) Non-residential                      649   640     632    624     616       608     600      592       -1.3%
EdL Total                   290         514   522     531    540     548       557     567      575        1.6%
EdL Total (USC/kWh)                    4.83   4.90   4.99    5.07    5.15     5.23     5.33    5.40        1.6%
Note: exchange rate: US$1 = Kip 10,646


(b) Energy Consumption and Load Growth. According to statistic data, monthly energy consumption by
households electrified under the Project was increased by 58.9% from 39.1 kWh in 2003 to 62.2 kWh in
2004 (see Table 2). It was estimated at the appraisal that monthly consumption would increased to 98 kWh
per household in 2007, after which electricity consumption was assumed to increase only as a functional of
income levels. The estimation is reasonable at current country context. In the ICR analysis, the monthly
household consumption is assumed to increase by about 16.35% from 62.2 kWh in 2004 to 98 kWh in
2007, after which by about 5% (see Table 3).

             Table 2        Statistics on Energy Consumption of All Consumers Served by SPRE

 No.                 Description                   2001        2002         2003          2003       2004        2004
  1 Residential (MWh)                              2316        4024        19457        63.2%       38638      53.5%
  2 Commercial (MWh)                                356          465        2407         7.8%        9312      12.9%
  3 Public Service (MWh)                              18         131        1829         5.9%        2937        4.1%
  4 International office (MWh)                         2          44         123         0.4%         260        0.4%
  5 Agriculture (MWh)                                 84         594        2515         8.2%       10999      15.2%
  6 Industries (MWh)                                  51         312        4474        14.5%       10121      14.0%
      Grand Total (MWh)                            2826        5571        30805        100%        72267       100%
      No. of households (HH)                                                41444                    51805
      Consumption per a.n.(kWh/HH)                                          469.47                     746
      Consumption per month (kWh/HH)                                          39.1                    62.2



(c)      Consumer Surplus. The economic analysis for the SPRE 2 indicated that in the southern
provinces, which was covered by the Project Grid Extension Component, the consumers' willingness and
ability to pay for grid electricity was very high. Based on field survey data, it was concluded that gross
consumer surplus for grid electricity was estimated at 6,126,374.20 Kip or US$575.46 per household per
year [Project Appraisal Document, Second Southern Provincial Rural Electrification Project, May 9, 2005]. The
WTP is significantly higher than estimations at appraisal: US$0.7836/kWh at ICR vs. US$0.2252/kWh to
US$0.1997/kWh as projected at appraisal for the period 1998 to 2003. In reality, tariffs are not
differentiated according to each consumer's willingness to pay resulting in a significant consumer surplus.
The WTP by rural households is assumed as the WTP for all consumers in this analysis.




                                                    - 22 -

                  Table 3      Rural Household Consumer Surplus and Willingness to Pay

                                                  Monthly       Annual     Expenditure       Surplus        WTP         WTP
                                                  consump.     consump.      per HH          per HH        by HH        by HH
                                                   per HH       per HH       per year        per year      per year    per kWh
                                                   (kWh)        (kWh)           ($)            ($)           ($)       ($/kWh)
Survey in 2004                                          63.3          760            9.2         575.46         584.7      0.7697
Statistic data in 2004                                  62.2          746            9.0         575.46         584.4      0.7836
Projections in 2005                                     72.3          868                        575.46         584.4      0.6735
Projections in 2006                                     84.1         1010                        575.46         584.4      0.5788
Projections in 2007                                     97.9         1175                        575.46         584.4      0.4975
Consumption increase (2005-2007)                     16.35%        16.35%
PAD-projection at appraisal (2007)                      98.0         1176
PAD-projection at appraisal (1998)                                                                                         0.2252



Note:
(i) Residential tariffs were 113 Kip/kWh for 0-50 kWh monthly, and 189 Kip/kWh for 50-100 kWh monthly in 2004;
(ii) Exchange rate: US$1=Kip 10,646.
(iii) Surplus was US$546.75 per HH per a.n. in the PAD of SPRE 2. Difference is due to different exchange rates.


(d) Cost of Energy. Total supply cost is based on the average cost (capacity and energy cost) of electricity
supply to all categories of consumers. The EdL Tariff Study calculates that incremental cost per kWh sold
is 652 Kip or US$0.061 at year 2004 prices, excluding cost of MV and LV distributions. This is taken as
an approximate energy cost in the economic analysis.

                                  Table 4 Incremental cost of Electricity Supply to Consumers
                               Breakdown into Cost of Generation, Transmission and Distribution
                                               (Kip per kWh sold; real at prices of 2004)


                                         Generation            Transmission            Distribution          Total Incremental
                                                                   (HV)                (MV & LV)               Cost of Supply
    1   LV Consumers
          Residential                        496                    261                      246                    1003
          Non-residential                    408                    148                      140                    696
          Total LV supply                    458                    212                      200                    870
           in %                            52.6%                  24.4%                    23.0%                   100%
    2   MV Consumers                         357                    118                      79                     554
           in %                            64.4%                  21.3%                    14.3%                   100%
    3   Total EdL                            449                    203                      189                    841
           in %                            53.4%                  24.1%                    22.5%                   100%

    4   Total EdL
        Generation and                       652          Kip/kWh
        HV Transmission                     0.061         US$/kWh


  Note: exchange rate: US$1 = Kip 10,646




                                                          - 23 -

(e) Project Investment Cost. The recorded financial investment cost for MV and LV distribution grid is
US$25.15 million for the Grid Extension Component, excluding interests during construction of US$0.6
million, about US$19.54 million (76%) in foreign cost and US$6.22 million (24%) in local cost. For
economic analysis, no shadow pricing is used since (i) most of the investment cost (76%) for this
component was foreign costs for goods and services; most of the local cost invested by EdL was for
concrete poles and steel cross arms, for which cement and steel were also imported; and local labor cost
consisted a very small portion of the local cost; and (ii) the exchange rate during the project construction
period was set by the market.

(f) Operation and Maintenance Cost. Incremental operation and maintenance (O&M) cost was estimated
as 2% of accumulated Project investment cost, 1% for operation and maintenance respectively.

(g) Tax. Import tax was free for IDA financed procurement.

(h) Number of Households Electrified. In total 51,805 households were electrified under the Grid
Extension Component by end 2004 (PAD target: 50,000 households).

In summary, the basic data and assumptions are as follows:

      Table 5      Distribution Extension: Basic Data and Assumptions for Economic Analysis

   1)   Annual energy consumption growth
        (i) 2005-2007(monthly HH consumption in 2007 would reach PAD assumed 98 kWh)               16.4%
        (ii) 2008 and future years                                                                  5%
   2)   Project life after completion by end 2004                                                 20 years
   3)   EdL average tariff in 2003 (US$/MWh)                                                       37.80
   4)   EdL average tariff in 2004 (US$/MWh)                                                       48.28
   5)   Average annual EdL tariff increase in 2005-2011 (in real terms)                           1.62%
   6)   Annual EdL tariff increase after 2011                                                       0%
   7)   Long-run Marginal Cost of energy generation and HV transmission (2004 prices, US$/MWh)     61.24
   8)   Operational & maintenance cost as percentage of accumulated investment cost                 2%
   9)   Other social and environmental benefit/cost (US$)                                            0
   10)  Discount rate for calculation of NPV (interest rate, real)                                  7%



1.2.2    Conclusion

With adjustment of tariffs as recommended by IDA in its Action Plan, the EIRR for the Distribution
Extension Component is estimated 60.5% and NPV US$237 million at a 7% discount rate. It is much
higher than the estimation at appraisal (22.80%) mainly because the WTP concluded based on data of the
field survey in 2004 is much higher than the estimations at appraisal. The EIRR is in line with the
economic analysis for the follow-up SPRE 2 project, for which EIRR is estimated 79% for grid-extension
activities in the same provinces.




                                                             - 24 -

                        Lao PDR: Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
                                      Economic Internal Rate of Return
                                      Distribution Extension Component
                                              (in constant 2004 prices)

                              EIRR 60.5%                  NPV      $237 million
Year  Energy  WTP    Cons.    Energy  Energy    Invest.    Unit   Energy  O&M      Total  Supplier  Total    PV of    PV of
       sales   by    surplus   sales   sales      cost    energy   cost    cost    cost    benefit   net      net    accumul.
               HH              tariff  benefit  exl.I DC   cost                                    benefit   benefit  benefit
      (GWh)  ($kWh)  ($ m)   ($/MWh)   ($ m)     ($ m)   ($/MWh)   ($ m)   ($ m)   ($ m)   ($ m)    ($ m)    ($ m)    ($ m)
                       a                 b                                           c     e=b-c    f=a+e
1998                                                                             0                     0.00     0.00         0
1999                                                 0.11                   0.002     0.11    -0.11    -0.11    -0.09    -0.09
2000                                                 4.21                     0.09    4.30    -4.30    -4.30    -3.51    -3.60
2001                                                 6.98                     0.23    7.21    -7.21    -7.21    -5.50    -9.10
2002                                                 7.36                     0.37    7.73    -7.73    -7.73    -5.51   -14.62
2003    30.80  0.78   12.28      37.80    1.16       5.60    61.24    1.89    0.49    7.97    -6.81    5.47     3.65    -10.97
2004    72.27  0.78   28.41      48.28    3.49       0.89    61.24    4.43    0.50    5.82    -2.33   26.08    16.24      5.27
2005    84.08  0.67   28.07      49.03    4.12               61.24    5.15    0.50    5.65    -1.53   26.54    15.45     20.72
2006    97.83  0.58   27.67      49.88    4.88               61.24    5.99    0.50    6.49    -1.62   26.05    14.17     34.89
2007   113.83  0.50   27.19      50.72    5.77               61.24    6.97    0.50    7.47    -1.70   25.49    12.96     47.85
2008   119.52  0.50   28.50      51.47    6.15               61.24    7.32    0.50    7.82    -1.67   26.83    12.75     60.59
2009   125.49  0.50   29.87      52.32    6.57               61.24    7.69    0.50    8.19    -1.62   28.25    12.54     73.13
2010   131.77  0.50   31.30      53.26    7.02               61.24    8.07    0.50    8.57    -1.56   29.74    12.34     85.48
2011   138.36  0.50   32.81      54.01    7.47               61.24    8.47    0.50    8.98    -1.50   31.30    12.14     97.61
2012   145.27  0.50   34.45      54.01    7.85               61.24    8.90    0.50    9.40    -1.55   32.89    11.92    109.54
2013   152.54  0.50   36.17      54.01    8.24               61.24    9.34    0.50    9.85    -1.61   34.56    11.71    121.24
2014   160.16  0.50   37.98      54.01    8.65               61.24    9.81    0.50  10.31     -1.66   36.31    11.50    132.74
2015   168.17  0.50   39.87      54.01    9.08               61.24   10.30    0.50  10.80     -1.72   38.16    11.29    144.03
2016   176.58  0.50   41.87      54.01    9.54               61.24   10.81    0.50  11.32     -1.78   40.09    11.08    155.11
2017   185.41  0.50   43.96      54.01   10.01               61.24   11.36    0.50  11.86     -1.84   42.12    10.88    166.00
2018   194.68  0.50   46.16      54.01   10.51               61.24   11.92    0.50  12.43     -1.91   44.25    10.69    176.68
2019   204.41  0.50   48.47      54.01   11.04               61.24   12.52    0.50  13.02     -1.98   46.49    10.49    187.18
2020   214.63  0.50   50.89      54.01   11.59               61.24   13.15    0.50  13.65     -2.06   48.84    10.30    197.48
2021   225.37  0.50   53.44      54.01   12.17               61.24   13.80    0.50  14.31     -2.13   51.30    10.11    207.59
2022   236.63  0.50   56.11      54.01   12.78               61.24   14.49    0.50  15.00     -2.21   53.89     9.93    217.52
2023   248.47  0.50   58.91      54.01   13.42               61.24   15.22    0.50  15.72     -2.30   56.61     9.75    227.27
2024   260.89  0.50   61.86      54.01   14.09               61.24   15.98    0.50  16.48     -2.39   59.47     9.57    236.84
Total                 856.22                        25.15                                    -64.84  791.38   236.84


                       Distribution Extension
            Present Value of Accumulated Benefit ($m)              236.84
    250
    200
    150
    100
     50
      0
     -50 1    3    5  7     9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27




                                                       - 25 -

1.3      Financial Rate of Return

The Project's financial viability deteriorated by the 1997 economic/financial crisis which led to a rapid
devaluation of the Kip, but this deterioration was counteracted by the later implementation of the FRP of
EdL. Under the FRP the tariff was increased at an average of 2.3% per month over a period of 26 months
since May 2002. This tariff adjustment was suspended in June 2004 due to complaints of consumers with
monthly consumption of about 100 kWh and above, and the PHRD financed EdL Tariff Study which was
about to deliver recommendations at the time of suspension. Based on conclusion of the tariff study, IDA
recommended an Action Plan for Efficiency and Sustainability of the Power Sector for discussion among
EdL and other Government agencies. The Action Plan recommended a gradual EdL tariff increase by about
1.6% over a six-year period 2005-2011 to achieve over the period a 4% rate of return on re-valued assets
and minimize cross-subsidies among consumer categories. Implementation of an agreed Action Plan will
be a condition for Board presentation of the proposed SPRE 2 project, and will certainly improve the
financial performance of the SPRE and EdL.

The financial rate of return was calculated on the basis of incremental financial cost and benefit streams
associated with the project, as compared to a "without project" case.

1.3.1    Main Data and Assumptions

Basic data and assumptions used for the financial analysis are summarized below:

          Table 6             Distribution Extension: Basic Data and Assumptions for Financial Analysis
    1     Annual energy consumption growth
          (i) 2005-2007(monthly HH consumption in 2007 would reach PAD assumed 98 kWh)             16.35%
          (ii) 2008 and future years                                                                5.0%
    2     Project life after completion by end 2004                                                20 years
    3     EdL average tariff in 2003 (US$/MWh)                                                      37.80
    4     EdL average tariff in 2004 (US$/MWh)                                                      48.28
    5     Annual EdL tariff increase in real terms (2005-2011)                                     1.62%
    6     Annual EdL tariff increase after 2011                                                      0%
    7     Cost of energy in 2004 (US$/MWh)                                                          32.00
    8     Operational & maintenance cost as percentage of accumulated investment cost                2%
    9     Other social and environmental benefit/cost (US$)                                           0
    10    Discount rate for calculation of NPV (interest rate, real)                                 7%



(a) Energy Consumption Growth. Same data and assumptions as for economic analysis.

(b) Energy Cost. Consumption by the SPRE electrified consumers is largely marginal to import of
electricity from the Thailand grid. The import cost was averaged at US$0.0354 per kWh. Based on its data
on electricity import, and generation and distribution, EdL calculated the average financial cost of energy
for SPRE consumers at 0.032 US$/kWh in 2004. The average cost for import of energy is calculated based
on the following:




                                                            - 26 -

                                Table 7 Average Cost for Import of Energy

                         Lines                                               Rate
(a) At 115 kV (Vientiane/Xeset)                          (a) Time of the Day rate
   Peak (at 18.00 ­ 21.30)                                    0.0320 US$/kWh
   Off-peak (at 23.30 ­ 18.00)                                0.0302 US$/kWh
(b) At 22 kV (Savannakhet /Khammoun)                     (b) Time of Day rate
    Peak (at 18.00 ­ 21.30)                                   0.0320 US$/kWh
    Off-peak (at 23.30 ­ 18.00)                               0.0302 US$/kWh
(c) At 35 kV (Houaphanh, Sepone/Savannakhet)             (c) Flat rate
                                                              0.060 US$/kWh
(d) At 22 kV (Bokeo and Kenthao/Xaiyabury)               (d) TOU rate
    Peak (at 18.00 ­ 21.30)                                   0.080 US$/kWh
    Off-peak (at 23.30 ­ 18.00)                               0.0325 US$/kWh

(c) Tariff. Same tariff levels and recommended adjustment by IDA as for the above economic analysis are
used for the financial analysis.

(d) Other Costs. Operation and maintenance costs, and project investment costs are assumed the same as
for the economic analysis. The interests paid during project constructions is excluded from the calculation.

1.3.2   Conclusion

The FIRR of the Distribution Extension Component is estimated 6.5%, higher than the 3.01% estimated at
appraisal. The NPV is estimated -$1.07 million.




                                                   - 27 -

                 Lao PDR: Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
                                 Financial Internal Rate of Return
                                Distribution Extension Component
                                     (in constant 2004 prices)

                            FIRR     6.5%                 NPV        -$1.07 million
 Year  Energy    Energy     Energy     Invest.    Unit     Energy     O&M      Total       Net       PV of      PV of
        sales     sales      sales      cost     energy     cost      cost      cost     cashflow     net      accumul.
                  tariff    revenue  excl. IDC    cost                                              cashflow   cashflow
        GWh      $/MWh       ($ m)     ($ m)     $/MWh     ($ m)      ($ m)    ($ m)      ($ m)      ($ m)      ($ m)
                               a                                                 b        c=a-b
 1998                                                                        0                    0       0.00          0
 1999                                       0.11                         0.002      0.11      -0.11      -0.09      -0.09
 2000                                       4.21                          0.09      4.30      -4.30      -3.51      -3.60
 2001                                       6.98                          0.23      7.21      -7.21      -5.50      -9.10
 2002                                       7.36              0.000       0.37      7.73      -7.73      -5.51     -14.62
 2003      30.80      37.80      1.16       5.60     32.00      0.99      0.49      7.07      -5.91      -3.94     -18.56
 2004      72.27      48.28      3.49       0.89     32.00      2.31      0.50      3.71      -0.22      -0.13     -18.69
 2005      84.08      49.03      4.12                32.00      2.69      0.50      3.19       0.93       0.54     -18.15
 2006      97.83      49.88      4.88                32.00      3.13      0.50      3.63       1.25       0.68     -17.47
 2007     113.83      50.72      5.77                32.00      3.64      0.50      4.15       1.63       0.83     -16.64
 2008     119.52      51.47      6.15                32.00      3.82      0.50      4.33       1.82       0.87     -15.78
 2009     125.49      52.32      6.57                32.00      4.02      0.50      4.52       2.05       0.91     -14.87
 2010     131.77      53.26      7.02                32.00      4.22      0.50      4.72       2.30       0.95     -13.91
 2011     138.36      54.01      7.47                32.00      4.43      0.50      4.93       2.54       0.99     -12.93
 2012     145.27      54.01      7.85                32.00      4.65      0.50      5.15       2.69       0.98     -11.95
 2013     152.54      54.01      8.24                32.00      4.88      0.50      5.38       2.85       0.97     -10.99
 2014     160.16      54.01      8.65                32.00      5.13      0.50      5.63       3.02       0.96     -10.03
 2015     168.17      54.01      9.08                32.00      5.38      0.50      5.88       3.20       0.95      -9.08
 2016     176.58      54.01      9.54                32.00      5.65      0.50      6.15       3.38       0.94      -8.15
 2017     185.41      54.01     10.01                32.00      5.93      0.50      6.44       3.58       0.92      -7.22
 2018     194.68      54.01     10.51                32.00      6.23      0.50      6.73       3.78       0.91      -6.31
 2019     204.41      54.01     11.04                32.00      6.54      0.50      7.04       4.00       0.90      -5.41
 2020     214.63      54.01     11.59                32.00      6.87      0.50      7.37       4.22       0.89      -4.52
 2021     225.37      54.01     12.17                32.00      7.21      0.50      7.71       4.46       0.88      -3.64
 2022     236.63      54.01     12.78                32.00      7.57      0.50      8.08       4.71       0.87      -2.77
 2023     248.47      54.01     13.42                32.00      7.95      0.50      8.45       4.97       0.86      -1.92
 2024     260.89      54.01     14.09                32.00      8.35      0.50      8.85       5.24       0.84      -1.07
Total                          185.62    25.154                                  148.48       37.14      -1.07



                       Distribution Extension
               Present Value of Net Cashflow ($m)
   0
      1  3     5   7     9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27
  -5                                                           -1.07

 -10

 -15

 -20




                                                   - 28 -

2.      Off-Grid Rural Electrification Component

2.1     Summary of Benefits and Costs

Economic benefits: the sum of both consumer surplus and supplier surplus. The estimate of consumer
surplus is also based on conclusions of the PHRD supported Social and Economic Survey. The supplier
surplus is calculated according to the net benefit to MIH. Other social and environmental benefits are
deemed minor and negligible.

Financial benefits: Incremental project re-flows paid by the consumers to MIH.

Economic and financial costs: (a) project investment costs during the period 1999-2004; (b) incremental
operation and maintenance costs--payments to PESCOs and VEMs for services--calculated according to
the agreements signed between the MIH and PESCOs.

2.2     Economic Rate of return

2.2.1   Main Data and Assumptions

Number of Households Electrified and Consumer Surplus. About 5,888 households were electrified
with SHSs under the Off-grid Component and numbers of households electrified by VH and GS were
negligible. According to conclusion of the PHRD Survey and the economic analysis conducted for the
SPRE 2, the gross consumer surplus for SHS ranges from US$78 to US$110 per household per annum
depending on sizes of the SHS. Based on mix of different sizes of the SHSs installed, the weighted average
consumer surplus is US$90.95 per household per annum (see Table 8).

                        Table 8     Consumer Surplus of Off-grid Electrification

                     Year                    10Wp     20Wp      30Wp      40Wp     50Wp       Total    Cumulative
                     1998
                     1999                        27       119        64                          210         210
                     2000                                                                           0        210
                     2001                                                                           0        210
                     2002                                 301        52        10        93      456         666
                     2003                       -27       945      271        180       861     2230        2896
                     2004                                 865      268        149       586     1868        4764
                     2005                                 398      233        142       351     1124        5888
Total                                             0      2628      888        481      1891     5888
Percentage                                        0   44.63%    15.08%     8.17%    32.12%      100%
Consumer surplus per a.n. ($/HH)                        78.15     82.10     97.88    110.01
Weighted average at prices of 2004 ($/HH)                                   90.59


 Note: exchange rate: US$1 = Kip 10,646


2.2.2   Conclusion

The EIRR of the Off-grid Rural electrification Component is estimated 26.0% and NPV US$2.84 million
at a 7% discount rate.




                                                  - 29 -

             Lao PDR: Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
                              Economic Internal Rate of Return
                         Off-grid Rural Electrification Component
                                   (in constant 2004 prices)

       EIRR              26.0%                 NPV           $2.84 million
       Number       Weighted       Total      Supplier     Total      Total        Net          PV           PV of
Year     of       ave. consumer   consumer     benefit     benefit     cost       benefit      of net     accumulative
      households     surplus       surplus                                                     benefit      benefit
                       ($)          ($)         ($)         ($)         ($)       ($ m)        ($ m)         ($ m)
          a             b          c=a*b         d         e=c+d         f        g=e-f
1998                                                                           0         0.00         0.00         0.00
1999          210                                                              0         0.00         0.00         0.00
2000          210                                                        -350104        -0.35        -0.29        -0.29
2001          210           90.59       19024                  19024      -90583        -0.07        -0.05        -0.34
2002          666           90.59       60332      14440       74772     -522576        -0.45        -0.32        -0.66
2003         2896           90.59      262343      78520      340863     -638203        -0.30        -0.20        -0.86
2004         4764           90.59      431562     101320      532881     -678640        -0.15        -0.09        -0.95
2005         5888           90.59      533383     123224      656607      -49536         0.61         0.35        -0.60
2006         5888           90.59      533383     106290      639673      -41156         0.60         0.33        -0.27
2007         5888           90.59      533383     106290      639673      -41156         0.60         0.30         0.03
2008         5888           90.59      533383     106290      639673      -41156         0.60         0.28         0.32
2009         5888           90.59      533383     105521      638904      -40772         0.60         0.27         0.58
2010         5888           90.59      533383     104442      637825      -40232         0.60         0.25         0.83
2011         5888           90.59      533383     104442      637825      -40232         0.60         0.23         1.06
2012         5888           90.59      533383     104442      637825      -40232         0.60         0.22         1.28
2013         5888           90.59      533383      94411      627794      -36888         0.59         0.20         1.48
2014         5888           90.59      533383      39361      572744      -16360         0.56         0.18         1.66
2015         5888           90.59      533383        6116     539499       -2587         0.54         0.16         1.82
2016         5888           90.59      533383                 533383                     0.53         0.15         1.96
2017         5888           90.59      533383                 533383                     0.53         0.14         2.10
2018         5888           90.59      533383                 533383                     0.53         0.13         2.23
2019         5888           90.59      533383                 533383                     0.53         0.12         2.35
2020         5888           90.59      533383                 533383                     0.53         0.11         2.46
2021         5888           90.59      533383                 533383                     0.53         0.11         2.57
2022         5888           90.59      533383                 533383                     0.53         0.10         2.67
2023         5888           90.59      533383                 533383                     0.53         0.09         2.76
2024         5888           90.59      533383                 533383                     0.53         0.09         2.84
Total                                                       12636028    -2670414         9.97         2.84



                        Off-grid Component
         Present Value of Accumulated Benefit ($m)


   4.00                                                           2.84

   2.00

   0.00
          1    3  5 7        9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27
  -2.00




                                                   - 30 -

2.3     Financial Rate of Return

2.3.1   Main Data and Assumption

For the Project as a whole, the FIRR is estimated 6.04% and NPV -US$2.25 million. The financial analysis
for the Off-grid Component only covers future 10 years. This is mainly because the hire-purchase contracts
will be due by 10 years the latest, and no cash flow generated after the year 2015. All financial cost and
incomes are calculated according to various contracts signed under this component.

The FIRR is estimated -15.9% and NPV -$1.05 million at a 7% discount rate. The Off-grid program was
providing access to electricity to poor rural households in remote village with charges below cost recovery
level, and was receiving Government subsidies.
                         Lao PDR: Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
                                       Financial Internal Rate of Return
                                   Off-grid Rural Electrification Component
                                             (in constant 2004 prices)

                           FIRR      -15.9%                     NPV      -$1.18 million
        Revenue                                 Cost                                         Income
  Year   Project  Pay.to    Invest.  Operat.   Startup  Local     Int'l  Wkshop      Total    Net       PV       PV of
         revenue  VEM        cost     cost     Support  Admin    advisor  training   cost   cashflow    at      accumul.
                  ESCO                                                                                 7%       cashflow
           ($)      ($)       ($)     ($)        ($)      ($)      ($)      ($)       ($)      ($)     ($m)      ($m)
  1998                    0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0      0.00           0
  1999                    0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0      0.00        0.00
  2000                        -68140        0         0   -25248  -243095    -13621  -350104  -350104     -0.29       -0.29
  2001                             0        0         0   -42914   -47669         0   -90583   -90583     -0.07       -0.35
  2002      14440    -3852   -343532    -1061     -5066   -54081  -102656    -12328  -522576  -508137     -0.36       -0.72
  2003      78520   -34030   -437827   -14017    -12979   -63966   -71880     -3505  -638203  -559684     -0.37       -1.09
  2004     101320   -36723   -445003   -21605    -14457   -95658   -52362    -12832  -678640  -577321     -0.36       -1.45
  2005     123224   -46440       794    -3891                                         -49536    73688      0.04       -1.41
  2006     106290   -41156                                                            -41156    65134      0.04       -1.37
  2007     106290   -41156                                                            -41156    65134      0.03       -1.34
  2008     106290   -41156                                                            -41156    65134      0.03       -1.31
  2009     105521   -40772                                                            -40772    64749      0.03       -1.28
  2010     104442   -40232                                                            -40232    64210      0.03       -1.25
  2011     104442   -40232                                                            -40232    64210      0.02       -1.23
  2012     104442   -40232                                                            -40232    64210      0.02       -1.20
  2013      94411   -36888                                                            -36888    57523      0.02       -1.18
  2014      39361   -16360                                                            -16360    23001      0.01       -1.18
  2015      6,116    -2,587                                                            -2587     3529      0.00       -1.18
  Total   1188992  -459229  -1293707   -40574    -32501  -281867  -517663    -42286 -2667827 -1478835     -1.18

                           Off-grid Component
           Present Value of Accumulated Net Cashflow
                                    ($m)

  0.0

  -0.5    1      3       5      7     9      11      13    15     17

  -1.0

  -1.5                                                              -1.18

  -2.0




                                                       - 31 -

3.      SPRE - Both Grid Extension and Off-grid Rural Electrification Components
3.1     Economic Rate of Return
For the Project as a whole, the EIRR is estimated 59.1% and NPV US$239.7 million.
                    Lao PDR: Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
                                  Economic Internal Rate of Return
                                      (in constant 2004 prices)

                        EIRR        59.1%                    NPV         $239.7      million
          On-grid       On-grid     On-grid      Off-grid    Off-grid    Off-grid       Total        PV          PV of
  Year     total         total        net          total      total        net           Net        of net    accumulative
          benefit        cost        benefit      benefit     cost        benefit      Benefit      benefit     benefit
                        ($ m)        ($ m)        ($ m)       ($ m)       ($ m)         ($ m)       ($ m)        ($ m)
  1998           0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
  1999           0.00          0.11        -0.11        0.00        0.00         0.00        -0.11       -0.09        -0.09
  2000           0.00          4.30        -4.30        0.00       -0.35        -0.35        -4.65       -3.80        -3.89
  2001           0.00          7.21        -7.21        0.02       -0.09        -0.07        -7.28       -5.55        -9.44
  2002           0.00          7.73        -7.73        0.07       -0.52        -0.45        -8.18       -5.83       -15.28
  2003          13.45          7.97         5.47        0.34       -0.64        -0.30         5.18        3.45       -11.83
  2004          31.90          5.82       26.08         0.53       -0.68        -0.15       25.93        16.15         4.32
  2005          32.19          5.65       26.54         0.66       -0.05         0.61       27.15        15.80        20.12
  2006          32.55          6.49       26.05         0.64       -0.04         0.60       26.65        14.50        34.62
  2007          32.96          7.47       25.49         0.64       -0.04         0.60       26.09        13.26        47.88
  2008          34.65          7.82       26.83         0.64       -0.04         0.60       27.43        13.03        60.91
  2009          36.43          8.19       28.25         0.64       -0.04         0.60       28.84        12.81        73.72
  2010          38.31          8.57       29.74         0.64       -0.04         0.60       30.34        12.59        86.31
  2011          40.28          8.98       31.30         0.64       -0.04         0.60       31.90        12.37        98.68
  2012          42.29          9.40       32.89         0.64       -0.04         0.60       33.49        12.14      110.82
  2013          44.41          9.85       34.56         0.63       -0.04         0.59       35.15        11.91      122.72
  2014          46.63         10.31       36.31         0.57       -0.02         0.56       36.87        11.67      134.40
  2015          48.96         10.80       38.16         0.54        0.00         0.54       38.69        11.45      145.84
  2016          51.41         11.32       40.09         0.53        0.00         0.53       40.62        11.23      157.08
  2017          53.98         11.86       42.12         0.53        0.00         0.53       42.65        11.02      168.10
  2018          56.68         12.43       44.25         0.53        0.00         0.53       44.78        10.82      178.91
  2019          59.51         13.02       46.49         0.53        0.00         0.53       47.02        10.61      189.53
  2020          62.48         13.65       48.84         0.53        0.00         0.53       49.37        10.41      199.94
  2021          65.61         14.31       51.30         0.53        0.00         0.53       51.84        10.22      210.16
  2022          68.89         15.00       53.89         0.53        0.00         0.53       54.43        10.03      220.19
  2023          72.33         15.72       56.61         0.53        0.00         0.53       57.15         9.84      230.03
  2024          75.95         16.48       59.47         0.53        0.00         0.53       60.00         9.66      239.69
  Total                                 791.38                                  9.97       801.35       239.69



                               Lao PDR: SPRE
              Present Value of Accumulated Benefit ($m)

     300.00                                                            239.69

     200.00

     100.00

       0.00
    -100.00     1    3  5     7   9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27




                                                      - 32 -

3.2     Financial Rate of Return

For the Project as a whole, the FIRR is estimated 6.04% and NPV -US$2.25 million.

                                  Lao PDR: Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
                                                 Financial Internal Rate of Return
                                                     (in constant 2004 prices)

               FIRR      6.04%                                                  NPV     -$2.25      million
                      Grid-extension                          Off-grid                              SPRE
   Year      Energy        Total       Net         Project       Total        Net         Net          PV of         PV of
             sales         cost      cashflow      revenue        cost       cash       cashflow         net      accumulated.
            revenue                                                          flow                     cashflow      cashflow
             ($ m)         ($ m)      ($ m)         ($ m)        ($ m)       ($ m)       ($ m)         ($ m)         ($ m)
   1998                                                                                                       0.00             0
   1999                         0.11        -0.11                     0.000      0.000         -0.11         -0.09         -0.09
   2000                         4.30        -4.30                    -0.350     -0.350         -4.65         -3.80         -3.89
   2001                         7.21        -7.21                    -0.091     -0.091         -7.30         -5.57         -9.46
   2002                         7.73        -7.73        0.014       -0.523     -0.508         -8.24         -5.88        -15.34
   2003            1.16         7.07        -5.91        0.079       -0.638     -0.560         -6.47         -4.31        -19.65
   2004            3.49         3.71        -0.22        0.101       -0.679     -0.577         -0.79         -0.49        -20.14
   2005            4.12         3.19         0.93        0.123       -0.050      0.074         1.00           0.58        -19.56
   2006            4.88         3.63         1.25        0.106       -0.041      0.065         1.31           0.71        -18.84
   2007            5.77         4.15         1.63        0.106       -0.041      0.065         1.69           0.86        -17.98
   2008            6.15         4.33         1.82        0.106       -0.041      0.065         1.89           0.90        -17.08
   2009            6.57         4.52         2.05        0.106       -0.041      0.065         2.11           0.94        -16.15
   2010            7.02         4.72         2.30        0.104       -0.040      0.064         2.36           0.98        -15.17
   2011            7.47         4.93         2.54        0.104       -0.040      0.064         2.61           1.01        -14.16
   2012            7.85         5.15         2.69        0.104       -0.040      0.064         2.76           1.00        -13.16
   2013            8.24         5.38         2.85        0.094       -0.037      0.058         2.91           0.99        -12.17
   2014            8.65         5.63         3.02        0.039       -0.016      0.023         3.05           0.96        -11.21
   2015            9.08         5.88         3.20        0.006       -0.003      0.004         3.20           0.95        -10.26
   2016            9.54         6.15         3.38                                              3.38           0.94         -9.32
   2017           10.01         6.44         3.58                                              3.58           0.92         -8.40
   2018           10.51         6.73         3.78                                              3.78           0.91         -7.48
   2019           11.04         7.04         4.00                                              4.00           0.90         -6.58
   2020           11.59         7.37         4.22                                              4.22           0.89         -5.69
   2021           12.17         7.71         4.46                                              4.46           0.88         -4.81
   2022           12.78         8.08         4.71                                              4.71           0.87         -3.95
   2023           13.42         8.45         4.97                                              4.97           0.86         -3.09
   2024           14.09         8.85         5.24                                              5.24           0.84         -2.25
Total                                      37.14                                  -1.48       35.66          -2.25



                             Lao PDR: SPRE
          Present Value of Accumulated Net Cashflow
                                   ($m)
      0
         1    3    5 7      9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27
   -10                                                             -2.25

   -20

   -30




                                                       - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              2/25/97                   4    MISSION LEADER (1); SR
                                             POWER ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST(1);
                                             RENEWABLE ENERGY SPEC
                                             (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/16/97                  4    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST(1);
                                             ENERGY ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC
                                             (1)
              02/11/98                  1    TASK TEAM LEADER

 Supervision
              10/13/98                  3    ENERGY ECONOMIST (1);            S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); RENEWABLE
                                             ENERGY SPECIALIST (1)
              02/12/99                  2    ENERGY ECONOMIST (1);            S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              05/24/99                  2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               U
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              11/11/99                  3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               U
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             POWER ENGINEER (1)
              03/17/00                  4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               U
                                             RESETTLEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); RENEWABLE
                                             EGY.SPECLST. FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1)
              09/28/00                  2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               U
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              02/02/01                  3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               U
                                             RENEWABLE ENERGY SPEC.
                                             (1); RURAL ENERGY SPEC.
                                             (1)
              04/11/02                  5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             HYDROPOWER ENGINEER
                                             (1); POWER ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             RENEWABLE ENERGY SPEC.
                                             (1)
              02/14/03                  6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             SR.OPERATIONS OFFICER



                                              - 34 -

                                                   (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                                   (2); ENVIRONMENT
                                                   SPECIALIST (1);
                                                   RESETTLEMENT/LAND ACQ.
                                                   (1)
               10/03/03                       4    SR. POWER ENGINEER (1);            S    S
                                                   FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                                   RESETTLEMENT SPECIALIST
                                                   (1); ALTERNATIVE ENERGY
                                                   SPEC.
               05/11/04                       7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                                   POWER ENGINEER (1);
                                                   ALTERNATIVE ENERGY
                                                   SPEC. (1); RESETTLEMENT
                                                   SPEC. (1); ENERGY SPEC. (1);
                                                   FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                                   PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT
                                                   (1)
               10/04/04                       3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                                   PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                                   ENERGY SPECIALIST (1)


 ICR
               01/24/05                      3     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                                   PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                                   (1); ENERGY SPECIALIST
                                                   (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   42.5                           250.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        14.7                            86.3
  Supervision                                  82.9                           487.9
  ICR                                            6.3                           32.5
  Total                                       146.4                           856.6
*Regional direct to full costs mark-up is 25% for prior fiscal years up to 1999.




                                                   - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. Project Appraisal Document for SPRE, February 24, 1998.
 2. Country Assistance Strategy for Lao PDR, March 30, 1999, World Bank.
 3. Loss Reduction Program ­ Recommendation of Action to Reduce Distribution Losses, August 2001,
    Meritec.
 4. Lao Power Sector Policy ­ Strategy for Implementation of Proposed Reforms, Draft of 17 November
    2002.
 5. Contract-Plan for EdL for the Period 2001-2003
 6. Initial Environmental Examination and Social Assessment for SPRE, December 2002, Lahmeyer
    International.
 7. Information Technology Strategic Plan, March 2000, ESBI International.
 8. EdL Annual Reports
 9. Quarterly Progress Reports for SPRE (on-grid), Meritec.
10. Quarterly Progress Reports for SPRE (off-grid), MIH.
11. Power System Development Plans for Lao PDR, August 2004, Maunsell, Lahmeyer International.
12. Village Energy and Electricity ­ Best Practice in Lao PDR, February 2004, Off-Grid Promotion and
    Support Office, MIH
13. Borrower's Completion Report, January 2005
14. Evaluation of Rural Electrification Socio-Economic Survey ­ Establishment of Database for Rural
    Electrification Planning in Lao PDR, November 2004, Systems-Europe
15. Study on Economically Justified Levels of Support for Off-Grid Electricity Supply, W.
    Teplitz-Sembitzky, EASEG
16. Social Impacts and Management for SPRE I (SPRE 1/1 and SPRE 1/14), February 5, 2005, EdL
17. EdL Tariff Study, Electrowatt-Ekono Ltd., Switzerland, Fichtner, Germany, December 2004
18. Action Plan for Efficiency and Sustainability of the Power Sector, IDA, April 22, 2005




                                                  - 38 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Borrower Completion Report for the Project

                     BORROWER'S PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
                            LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
          SOUTHERN PROVINCES RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT (SPRE 1)
                                       (CREDIT Nº 30470-LA)

                                         Executive Summary

This is the Borrowers Completion Report (BCR) for the Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
(SPRE 1) in the Lao People's Democratic Republic (PDR), for which Credit Nº 30470-LA in the amount of
SDR 25.7 million was approved on 29 April 1998 and made effective on 11 August 1998. The credit was
closed on 31 December 2004, six months after the original closing date. Final disbursements took place on
31 December 2004 at which time a balance of USD 195,063.74 was cancelled. Included as a component of
the funding was grant assistance from the resources of the Global Environment Facility ("GEF") Trust
Fund.

The Project as defined in the World Bank's PAD dated February 24, 1998 included three parts, namely:

Part A: "Distribution Extension" whose local costs were borne by Electricité du Laos as
Implementing Agency.

Part B: "Off-Grid Rural Electrification" that was financed partly by GEF and by the Ministry of
Industry and Handicrafts as Implementing Agency.

Part C "Institution Building" whose local costs were borne by the Ministry of Industry and
Handicrafts as Implementing Agency."

Part A: The Distribution Extension Component achieved its objectives with an implementation record
exceeding the key performance targets set at appraisal. This component has increased service in the seven
provinces of Bolikhamxay, Khammouane, Savannakhet, Saravane, Champassak, Attapeu, and Sekong, and
has electrified 721 villages and 51,805 households, exceeding 50,000 household target set in the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD).

The key performance indicators targets defined in the PAD were equaled or exceeded. The Project
commissioned (i) the extension of the existing 115 kV Pakbo substation; (ii) a 50.798 km 115 kV
transmission line between Pakbo and Kengkok substations and a short 2.632 km 115 kV line between the
115 kV Mekong crossing and the Thakhek substation (from project cost savings); (iii) 2x20 MVA
115/22kV substation at Kengkok and from project cost savings the upgrading of the 115 kV substation at
Paksan from a 1x5MVA 115/22 kV transformer bank to a 2x16MVA transformer bank, and a new 2x30
MVA 115/22 kV substation at Thakhek; (iv) 1,554 km of 22 kV lines; (v) 114 Km of Single Wire Earth
Return (SWER); (vi) 1,566 km of 0.4kV low-voltage lines to households; and (vii) 44.88 MVA 22/0.4 kV
substation transformers; (viii)1.282 MVA 12.7/0.23 kV substation transformer and (ix) installation of
51,805 consumer meters.




                                                 - 39 -

The key economic/financial ratios for the project were as follows,

                        Economic Analysis                  Financial Analysis
                        Appraisal                          Latest
                                                           estimatesAppraisalLatest
                                                           estimates
     Benefits/Costs     EIRR=22.4%                         EIRR= 23.4%
                                                           FIRR=3.6%
                                                           FIRR= 11.3%

Part B: The Off-Grid Component achieved its objectives with an implementation record exceeding the key
performance target set at appraisal. The number of household connections made in January 2005 was
4,910 exceeding the target figure of 4,600. The Project has in hand stock procured under SPRE 1,
sufficient to connect 1,187 additional houses, all of which are expected to be connected by April 2005, with
assistance form a GEF grant (PDFB) for the proposed SPRE 2 project to cover for continuing service
following the Credit closing at the end of December 2004. By the end of April 2005 the total volume of
connection achieved through SPRE 1 procurement will therefore be 5,874

Part C: The Institution Building Component achieved it objectives. Under this component consultant
services and equipment were provided to EdL to further improved efficiency by building its project
management capability, improving its system planning and technical design capacity, and enhancing its
commercial focus, and to MIH to improve its capacities in hydro power development planning, and the
implementation of the electricity law.

Technical assistance to EdL for project management and supervision was satisfactory and allowed EdL to
build in-house capabilities which has significantly reduced EdL's dependency on TA for project design,
preparation and procurement. Financial management capacity building was also considered satisfactory
after overcoming difficulties of non-performing consultants in early stage. As the results, the Financial
Recovery Plan was successfully implemented, and a computerized Billing system and an Accounting and
Financial Management system were set up, which allowed integration of financial management of EdL's
Branch Offices and Headquarters.

Technical assistance to MIH included project implementation support to the Off-grid Promotion
Secretariat. The TA has enabled the newly established Secretariat to perform satisfactorily and with
installation rates exceeding initial targets. A second component of TA included investment and system
planning. These activities are considered highly satisfactory as the recommendations and system tools have
been widely adopted in DOE. The failure of Lao PDR to attract private sector interest in the power sector
can mainly be ascribed to wider macroeconomic conditions and the general shortcomings of the investment
climate in Lao PDR.

The efficiency in project implementation resulted in achievements of expanded physical outputs and
considerable cost savings, which allowed additional financial resources to support the various TA activities
to advance the preparations of the Nam Theun 2 to the final stages with expected financial closure in 2005.
_________________________

Note: This BCR was prepared by Gnanhkham Douangsavanh, Manager, Project Office, Development Department
of Electricité du Laos (EdL) with input from the client and data prepared by Bounkeua Xayasone, Project
Engineer. The BCR was reviewed by Gnanhkham Douangsavanh, and cleared by Hatsady Sysoulath, Deputy
General Manger (EdL Development Department).




                                                     - 40 -

Summary on Resettlement and Environment Management

Project Scope. The Project scope which impacted resettlement and environmental issues consisted
essentially of these components:

 SPRE 1/1 Contract             l 52 km 115 kV Transmission line from Pakbo to Kengkok
                               l Extension of existing Substation in Pakbo in order to accommodate the new Substation in
                                  Kengkok
                               l New Substation in Kengkok
 SPRE 1/14 Contract           l 2.8 km 115 kV Transmission line in Thakhek
                              l New Substation in Thakhek


For the Pakbo-Kengkok transmission line the original RAP identified 242 potential affected persons with a
compensation budget of about US$1,812. After a detailed survey and census inventory before beginning
of construction begin, only 97 households along the transmission line were identified, in which 4 houses
have been relocated away from right of way by several meters.

In summary, a total of 54,833,842 Kip was spent by EdL for land acquisition and compensation to affected
people in those two projects in Savannakhet and Khammouane Provinces.

Compensation principles

For the SPRE, the following principles were followed in land acquisitions and compensation of losses of
properties.

l Project Affected Persons will be provided compensation for their lost assets affected in full or in part,
    at full replacement cost.
l In case of compensation for the affected type of land (agriculture, residential or commercial), it will be
    through provision of "land to land" arrangement of equivalent size or productivity and at the location
    acceptable to the Affected Persons. If the land is not available, cash compensation at full replacement
    cost is applied.
l If the house or structure is partially affected by the project but the remaining structure is rendered
    unviable or area less than the minimum house size, the Affected Persons will be entitled to full
    compensation.
l In the case that the Affected Persons suffer a partial loss of a structure and the remaining structure is
    still viable, assistance shall be given in the form of cash or material to restore the structure.
l n case of temporary impact caused by the project, there will be full compensation of the net loss of
    income. If the temporary use of the assets is less than 6 months there will be compensation of 10% of
    the replacement cost of the affected assets. But if the temporary impacts are more than 6 months,
    compensation should be negotiated with the owner of the assets.
l In case of Persons leasing the house or structure, compensation equivalent of 3 months rental
    allowance shall be granted. The Affected Persons will also be assisted in finding the alternatives for
    rental accommodation.
l For Affected Persons without any legal title or ownership right to affected land or assets they occupy,
    the Affected Persons should be compensated and be provided with assistance to ensure they are not
    worse-off due to project.
l All previous claims and unresolved issues relating to tenure status and ownership of land and other
    assets on each sub-project or components will be resolved before land acquisition.




                                                          - 41 -

Project Implementation Office

At Savannakhet, Mr. Gnanhkham Douangsavanh carried out the role of Site Manager of the Project for
Pakbo and Kengkok substation and transmission line. Mr. Taykeo Sengchanh was his assistant and was
responsible for Environmental and Resettlement issues.

At Khammouane, Mr. Somphouvieng Norindr was the Site Manager and Mr. Khamkhien Thammavong
was his assistant for Environment and Resettlement issues.

Project Consultation and Awareness

Consultation with local authorities and villages during census inventory was carried out by EdL, as this the
most important undertaking which is key for the successful implementation of resettlement. EdL also made
public announcements that were published in the newspaper which provided a clear project scope to the
public. On 24 October 2002, EdL organized a consultation workshop with the representative villagers
along the line, district and provincial authorities in Savannakhet Province. Meetings at the village level with
the village chief and affected peoples were also held by the Coordinating Committee with the village chief
and affected people. At the meetings, villagers were encouraged to raise nay their concerns they might have.

Evaluation of RAP Implementation

In general the affected people had been satisfied with compensation and the work of the Coordination
Committee, they were happy with the benefits that had been derived from electricity which is making their
life better than before. In addition electricity is more stable than before.

From the survey, no relocated households reduced their living level or got poorer because of land
requisition or relocation; after land acquisition, the living quality of the resettled person was better than
before. Land acquisition was basically in line with the policy goal of resettlement.

Conclusion and recommendation for the next projects

l Good preparation during design and planning;
l Avoid project construction delays to minimize the impact on the schedule for compensation and
     relocation of affected people;
l Misunderstandings by the Coordination Committee of commitments made to the WB that led to paying
     compensation to affected peoples not in line with official RAP;
l First time for EdL Branch participation in Environmental and Resettlement Management, and limited
     training;
l Formulation of Environmental and Social Management regulations and guidelines need to be fully
     developed in Lao PDR;
l Support for the Environmental Office of EdL.




                                                       - 42 -

Additional Annex 9. Monitoring Performance Indicators for Future Operation


                   Indicator                Original   Target 2004    Actual       Future
                                           performance              Performance  performance
                                              1996                     2004
     Debt Service Coverage                     1.2x        1.5x         1.2x        >1.5x

    Self-financing ratio                       20%         30%          31%        >30%

    Accounts receivable turnover                        < 2 months   5 months    < 2 months

    EdL O&M Budget (Kip) and                            515,381,427 629,505,994  871,356,992
    percentage of total Budget                             11%          9%       6% (2005)

    EdL Staffing (total number )              1997         2998        2979        3181

    Distribution Losses (include technical     23%        16.1%       19.0 %        15%
    and estimate of NT losses)

    Number of grid and off-grid connected    134,392     364,263      411,762     429,386
    households                                 268         4910        4910        6097

                                                                                 (May 2005)




                                                - 43 -

Additional Annex 10. Additional Details on the Project Description of EdL Components

For the seven southern Provinces, the Project included:

Bolikhamxay Province. Electrification of approximately 6,000 households in 5 areas of about 200- 3000
households each. Construction of a distribution grid in the area around the new Theun Hinboun
hydroelectric station (Commissioned in 3/98) along road 8. Extension of the Distribution network to the
East and West of the Pakxan substation along road 13 and to the North in Borikhan.

Khammouane Province. Electrification of approximately 7,000 households through extension of the
distribution grid from Thakhek substation to 16 small areas of about           70-1,350 households each.
Distribution extension will be primarily through construction of branch lines using single - phase and
SWER technology.

Savannakhet Province        Electrification of approximately 13,000 households in 5 areas of about 460 ­
3,700 households each through the extension of the Savannakhet distribution grid. Construction of at a new
115 kV transmission line from Pakbo substation near Savannakhet eastward to Kengkok, and a new 115/22
kV low-cost design substation in Champhone to increase system capacity and the quality of supply. The
capacity of existing 22 kV lines is insufficient for further load development in the rural area of
Savannakhet.

Champassack Province         Electrification of approximately 14,000 households in 9 areas of about 450 ­
4,550 households each. Extension of the distribution grid from Pakse southward along the Mekong river to
the Khone area, where the tourist development is expected, and eastward to the area around Pakxong to the
Boleven Plateau, where the new village has been established for the resettlement of people displaced by the
construction of the Huayho dam.

Saravane, Sekong and Attapeu Province            Electrification of approximately 11,400 households in 70
villages in 6 areas of about 800-3,500 households each. Extension of the distribution grid to about 1,900
households around Saravan and northward along road 13 from Selabam hydro power plant. Electrification
of about 500 households in the provincial capital Sekong and nearby village through construction of single
phase distribution grid supplied from the future Huay Ho hydro power station. Electrification of about 500
households    in the provincial capital Attapeu and district capital Xaisetha through construction of
distribution grids, also to be supplied from the new Huay Ho power station.




                                                    - 44 -

                                                                    102°                                            104°                                                          C H I N A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C H I N A


                       C H I N A                                                                                                                                      MYANMAR
         22°                                                                                                                                          22°
                                               Jinhong                                                                                                                                      LAO                 Gulf of
                                                                                                                                                                                          PEOPLE'S              Tonkin
                                                                        Phongsaly                                                                                                        DEM. REP.
                                                                                                             V I E T N A M
                                                                    PHONGSALY                                                                                                         Vientiane
                                                                                                                                                                                                            VIETNAM
                                                    Meuangla
       MYANMAR
                            LUANG
                            NAMTHA                                                                                                                                              THAILAND

                    Mekong             Luang
                                    Namtha                            Xay                                                         Mocchau
                                                                                         Namou
                                                              Ban
                 BOKEO                                       Nahin
                                                                                                             Sam Neua
                                                                              LUANG                          (Viengsai)                                     An                                     CAMBODIA

                     Ban Houei Sai                                                                                                                            da
                                           OUDOMSAI                                                         HOUAPHAN                                            ma
                                                                           PRABANG                                                                                nSea
         20°
                                                                 Luang                                                                               20°                            Gulf of
                                                                Prabang       Nam Dong                                                                                             Thailand
                                             HongSa Lignite
                                                                               Nam Khan 2
                                    SAYABOURY                                                 XIANG
                                                                                                       Phonsavanh
                                                                                               KHOUANG                      Ban Mai                                          106°

                                                                                           Nam          Xiang
                                                                                          Ngum 3        Khouang
                                           Sayaboury                                                                                       VIETNAM
                                                                                                                 Nam
                                                                                  Van       Nam                 Mo 2
                                                                                  Vieng    Ngum 2
                                                     Nam Lik 1/2                VIENTIANE                          Nam
                                                                               Nam Ngum 1          Nam Leuk      Ngiep 2        Theun 3


                                                                                Phon                         Paksane    BOLIKHAMSAI
                                                                                Hong                                  Nam Theun   Theun Hinboun
             Mae Moh                                                         PREFECTURE                                                   Lak Sao
                                                                          OF      VIENTIANE                Bung Kan
         18°                                 Sanakham                                                                        Ban                Theun 2
                                                                        VIENTIANE              Thanaleng
                                                                                                                            Nongsu                                                                                        18°

          THAILAND                                                  Nongkhai 2
                                  Kenethao
                                                                        Nongkhai
                                                                                                                                                KHAMMOUANE
                                                                                            Udorn I & II
                                                                                                                                              Thakhek
                                                                                                                                Nakhon
                                                                                                                                Phanom
                                                                                                                       Sakhon
                             LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                          Nakhon        Mekong
                           SOUTHERN PROVINCES RURAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Khesan
                                ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT                                                               Mukdahan 2                   Seno   SAVANNAKHET
                                                                                                                                             Savannakhet
                                                                                                                          Mukdahan                                            Phin
                                                                                                                                                         B.Kengkok

                          EXISTING POWER SYSTEM:                                    PROJECT TRANSMISSION LINE
                           115 kV / 22 kV SUBSTATIONS                               PLANNED POWER SYSTEM:
                           115 kV TRANSMISSION LINES                                 THERMAL POWER PLANT
         16°               22 kV TRANSMISSION LINES                                  500/230 kV SUBSTATIONS                                                                                                               16°
                           HYDRO DAMS                                                115 kV / 22 kV SUBSTATIONS                                                                                        Sekong 5
                                                                                     500 kV TRANSMISSION LINES                                                                      SARAVANE
                                                                                     230 kV TRANSMISSION LINES                                                                   Saravane
                          RIVERS                                                     115 kV TRANSMISSION LINES                                                                                       Sekong 4
                          SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                  22-35 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
                          PROVINCE CAPITALS                                          PLANNED HYDRO DAMS                                                                                               Sekong
                                                                                                                                                                                        Xeset
                          NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                              SEKONG
                                                                                                                                                                         Selabam                               Xekaman 3
                          PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                       EXISTING ELECTRIFICATION AREAS                                                                                    Houay Ho
                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                  PROJECT ELECTRIFICATION AREAS                                                       Pakse
                                                                                    OTHER PROPOSED ELECTRIFICATION AREAS                                                                                     Xekaman 1
                                                                                                                                                                              Champassak              Attopeu
               KILOMETERS  0             50              100            150                                                                   Sirindhorn                                   Xepian/
                                                                                                                                                                                          Senamnoy
                                                                                                                                                                       CHAMPASSAK                   ATTOPEU
                     MILES 0                       50                      100                                                                                                                                         Pleiku



              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                                                                                     Khong                                                 IBRD
              on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
MA       14°  judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                        14°     28485R
  Y           acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                            Khone Pha Pheng
   2005                                                                                                                           C A M B O D I A
                                                               102°                                                 104°                                   Stung streng          106°

