Report No. PID6033
Project Name                     Lao PDR-Southern Provinces Rural...
Electrification Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Power Sector
Project ID                       LAPE44973
Borrower                         Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR)
Implementing Agency              Electricite du Laos (EdL)
Contact: Mr. Viraphonh Viravong,
EdL Director General
Telephone: +856 21 212 803
Fax: +856 21 212 806
Date this PID prepared           October 1997
Project Appraisal Date           November 1997
Projected Board Date             March 1998
Country and Sector Background
The underdeveloped state of rural infrastructure in Lao PDR is a
major constraint to rural economic growth and poverty alleviation.
Only 8t of rural Lao households are connected to the electricity
grid, versus over 60t in Vientiane (capital of Lao PDR). Households
which are not connected to the grid pay high prices for electricity
(for example, electricity from automotive batteries costs at least
US$2/kWh). Alternative sources of lighting (typically, diesel wick
lamps and sawdust torches) do not provide sufficient light for
productive tasks such as reading or weaving. These factors suggest
that the lack of electricity in rural areas contributes to rural
poverty, which at 53t is twice that in urban areas.
To help relieve the urban rural disparities and to support broad-
based growth, the Government and Electricite du Laos (EdL), the
national power utility, have undertaken investments in
electrification of rural provinces, including two IDA projects which
have supported the electrification of about 20,000 households
(Southern Provinces Electrification, Credit 1826-LA, completed in
1994, and Provincial Grid Integration (PGI), Credit 2425-LA,
ongoing). These projects have demonstrated that electrification
significantly increases opportunity for value adding activities. The
next step in the Government's program is the electrification of
88,000 households by the year 2000, largely through extension of the
national distribution grid operated by EdL. In remote areas where
grid extension is not economically viable, cost-effective methods of
off-grid electrification will be piloted, and a plan developed to
implement successful pilots on a larger scale. The proposed project
would assist in these efforts.
Although EdL has consistently been profitable, its domestic business
operates at a loss which is cross-subsidized by its profits on



electricity exports. Three key reasons for this poor performance
are low domestic tariffs, poor billing and collection performance,
and high transmission and distribution losses. More generally, EdL
lacks incentives to operate on a commercial basis. The Government
and EdL are taking action to remedy these financial problems. The
Government approved a 70t increase in domestic tariffs (to about 60
K/kWh or 3.7 USc/kWh on a weighted-average basis) effective October
1, 1997. To improve billing and collections, EdL is modernizing its
financial procedures and systems. To reduce transmission and
distribution losses, EdL is replacing 28,000 defective meters in
Vientiane. To improve EdL's commercial incentives, the Government
has appointed a Board of Directors of EdL (December 1996) and passed
a basic Electricity Law (May 1997), and is in the process of
corporatizing EdL and negotiating a Performance Contract to permit
EdL to operate at arm's length from the Government.
Project Objectives
The Project's main development objectives are: (a) to expand access
to electricity in rural areas in 7 southern provinces of Laos,
through grid extension and off-grid electrification, where
economically justified; and (b) to strengthen EdL's capacity to plan
and implement electrification investments and to manage its
operations on a commercial basis. These objectives are consistent
with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy for Lao PDR, which calls for
a project to finance "the development of distribution networks to
extend grid-supplied electricity to areas where some economic
activity needs to be supported."
Project Description
In line with the Government's strategy and the project objectives,
the project will support the least-cost electrification of some
55,000 households in seven central and southern provinces of Lao
PDR: Bolikhamsai, Khammouane, Savannakhet, Saravane, Champassak,
Attopeu, and Sekong. The project will consist of the following
three components:
a.      Distribution Extension Component (US$ 31.7 million). Extension
of the national electricity grid to about 50,000 households through
the construction of about 50 km of high-voltage (115 kV)
subtransmission lines, 12 MVA of 115/22 kV transformer capacity,
1200 km of medium-voltage (22 kV) lines, 800 km of low-voltage (380
V) lines, 34 MVA of 220/380 kV distribution transformers and 50,000
meters. It will also pilot the use of low-cost single wire earth
return (SWER) systems in rural areas. This will complement similar
investments in the northern provinces supported by the Asian
Development Bank (ADB).
b.      Off-Grid Rural Electrification Component (US$ 2.2 million).
Demonstration projects for off-grid electrification in about 46
rural communities which are unlikely to be connected to the grid for
10 years or more will be executed. About 20 diesel mini-grids, 6
micro-hydro mini-grids and 20 solar battery charging stations will
be financed.
-2-



c.      Institution Building Component (US$ 3.9 million). Technical
assistance and related equipment to EdL and the Ministry of Industry
and Handicrafts (MIH) for: (a) construction supervision consultants
to assist and train EdL in project management and procurement; (b)
equipment including vehicles for supervision and maintenance,
computers and software for billing and collections, and other office
equipment; (c) financial consultants to assist EdL in financial
management; (d) specialized consultants to assist EdL and MIH in
regulatory and technical matters.
Project Financing
Total financing required for the project is about US$37 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange cost of about US$27 million
equivalent. The proposed credit would finance about US$33 million
of the project cost; cofinancing from GEF and ESMAP is being sought
for about US$1 million. The balance of project cost would be
financed by EdL through internal cash generation and (for Off-Grid
component works) village operators. About 87T of the proposed IDA
Credit would be used for procurement of goods and works under
International Competitive Bidding.   About 109 of the IDA credit
would be used for financing consulting services which would be
employed following the Bank guidelines. The transmission lines and
substations would be installed under one single-responsibility
contract. Materials for distribution extension would be procured
through 5 packages; installation would be undertaken by contractors.
Project Implementation
EdL will be full responsible for implementing the project. Its
Projects Office will be responsible for overall project management
(including engineering, procurement and disbursement) and will
directly manage the Distribution Expansion component. EdL's
Electrical Construction and Installation (ECI) Branch will manage
the Off-Grid component under the general guidance of the Projects
Office. Consultant assistance will be provided for all aspects of
project implementation.
A Performance Contract (to be signed by Ministry of Industry and
Handicraft (MIH), Ministry of Finance and EdL as a condition of
negotiations) establishes targets for EdL's technical, commercial
and financial performance, and provides for monitoring of compliance
by MIH and IDA.
Project Sustainability
The technologies for the Distribution Extension component are well
proven and EdL has experience in implementing them. EdL's technical
managers will receive training abroad in implementing these
technologies (under the ongoing IDA-financed PGI project) and
consultants will assist in project management. The technologies
used in the Off-Grid component are also proven and a resident
advisor will provide full-time support in their implementation.
These elements will ensure the project's technical sustainability.
-3 -



The physical components of the project form part of EdL's least-cost
development plan and have robust economic returns. The project
would therefore be economically sustainable. The management of EdL
is being strengthened, and its financial performance improved,
through the consultant services and equipment to be provided under
Institutional Building component, and through domestic tariff
increases. These measures will contribute to the project's
financial and institutional sustainability.
Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement
EdL's experience with two previous IDA projects suggests that their
staff needs to be supported with consultant assistance, and that
operating procedures need to be formalized. Consultants will
therefore provide continuous assistance in all aspects of project
implementation. Contract packaging has been simplified to facilitate
implementation (e.g. turnkey contract for transmission systems;
distribution expansion works grouped into two contracts; advance
preparation of tender documents). Under the project, EdL will
formalize its commercial systems and procedures, including auditing
procedures and computerized billing and collections systems; and EdL
will be held accountable for meeting financial and technical targets
under the Performance Contract.
A Bank review of rural electrification (Rural Electrification: A
Hard Look at Costs and Benefits, OED Precis, May 1995) recommends
strengthening the economic and financial appraisal of projects,
including consideration of alternative energy sources. Grid
extension was selected only where it was the least-cost technology
and where it was considered economically viable under conservative
assumptions for economic costs and benefits. Otherwise off-grid
solutions will be considered. Grant assistance is being sought to
nurture the development of these alternative energy sources.
IDA experience with off-grid projects has confirmed the usefulness
of demonstration projects in removing information barriers, and the
importance of community participation and cost recovery (Best
Practices for Photovoltaic Household Electrification Programs, World
Bank Technical Paper No. 324, 1996). The off-grid component is
conceived as a demonstration project, and is being undertaken in
close consultation with communities and community-based operators on
the basis of full cost recovery.
Compensation and Resettlement
The project is not expected to require resettlement. The
distribution lines will be placed along roads and other extant
public rights of way. The transmission lines will be placed over
largely uninhabited land. Land acquisition necessary for the
placement of pylons (for the 50-km subtransmission route) will be
done in accordance with a policy document to be approved by the
Government and IDA which sets out the principles and procedures to
be applied for compensation. During project preparation, IDA
assisted EdL in establishing policies and procedures for right-of-
way acquisition for transmission projects. This will set the ground
- 4 -



rules for compensation in compliance with international standards
set by donor agencies.
Environmental Implications
The project has been assigned Environmental Category B. The
detailed engineering and design study provides an assessment of the
environmental impact of the project. This has confirmed that the
project does not affect any ecologically sensitive areas and poses
no major environmental issues. Bidding documents will be reviewed
by IDA to ensure that adequate provisions are included to ensure
that the works will be executed in an environmentally acceptable manner.
Project Objective Codes and Inputs (%)
Major Sector                            Power 100l
Poverty (10%)                           Human Resources Development (10%)
Economic Management (10%)               Environment (10%)
Financial Institutions (0)              Infrastructure (50%)
Women in Development (0%)               Debt Adjustment (0%)
Natural Resources (0%)                  Sector Reform (10%)
Contact Point:           The World Bank InfoShop
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone: (202) 458 5454
Fax: (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending February 27, 1998.
- 5 -



Annex
Environmental
Project Cost: US$33 million equivalent
Major Project Components:
The proposed investment will pilot the extension of the national
electricity distribution grid to about 50,000 households through the
construction of about 47 km of subtransmission lines (115 kV), 12
MVA of 115/22 kV transformer capacity, 1200 km of medium-voltage (22
kV) lines, 800 km of low-voltage (380 V) lines, 34 MVA of 220/380 kV
distribution transformers and 50,000 meters. The project will also
pilot off-grid electrification in about 46 remote communities using
diesel and micro-hydro mini-grids as well as solar battery charging
stations, and will finance consultant services and equipment for
institution building.
Project Location:
The project will expand electricity service in seven southern Lao
provinces (Bolikhamsai, Khammouane, Savannakhet, Saravane,
Champassak, Attopeu, and Sekong), primarily in locations adjacent to
the area served by the ongoing Provincial Grid Integration project.
The subtransmission line will extend from Pakbo substation in
Savannakhet 47 km eastward to Champhone. The transmission route
does not traverse environmentally- or ecologically-sensitive areas.
Major Environmental Issues:
None.
Environmental Issues:
Minor environmental disruption would occur in the vicinity of the
52-km, 115-kV line, primarily during construction, due to the need
to clear vegetation from the right-of-way (ROW) and access roads,
and to handle spoil from erection of poles. Operation and
maintenance of the line may involve chemical or mechanical control
of vegetation along the ROW and occasional line repair and
maintenance.
Proposed Actions:
The Project Implementation Plan includes analysis of environmental
impacts as well as proposed contractual provisions and operating
procedures to mitigate them. The construction impacts will be
mitigated through appropriate environmental provisions in the
turnkey construction contract, which is subject to prior review by
IDA. Contractual provisions would include the appointment of a
member of the contractor's management team to monitor and report on
compliance with mitigation measures. An appropriate Governmental
agency would provide periodic oversight of compliance.
- 6 -



Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category:
The project will have only minor, local environmental impacts. The
impacts will be mitigated using known, standard techniques,
including contractual provisions executed by experience contracts.
- 7 -



