Page  1
February 09, 1998
His Excellency
Xaysomphone Phomvihane
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Vientiane
Lao People’s Democratic Republic
His Excellency
Viraphonh Viravong
General Manager
Electricite du Laos
Samsenthai Road, P.O.Box 309
Vientiane
Lao People’s Democratic Republic
Re:
GEF-MSP Grant No.20056
Lao-PDR: Southern Provinces Rural Electrification 
Project
Excellencies:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and for 
Reconstruction and Development (the "Bank") acting as an implementing agency of the 
Global Environment Facility (the "GEF") to indicate the Bank's agreement to make to 
the Electricite du Laos (the "Recipient") a grant in an amount not exceeding seven 
hundred forty-four thousand United States dollars (US$ 744,000) (the "Grant"), in 
connection with the Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project (the "Project"). 
In this regard, I also refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the "Development 
Credit Agreement") proposed to be entered into between the Lao People's Democratic 
Republic (the "Lao-PDR") and the International Development Association (the 
"Association") providing for a credit (the "Credit") to assist in financing the 
Project, and to the Project Agreement (the "Project Agreement") proposed to be entered 
into between the Recipient and the Association, also in connection with the Project. 
The Grant is made in response to: (i) the Lao-PDR's request for financial 
assistance, and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in the Annex to this Letter Agreement (the "Annex"); and (ii) the Lao-PDR's 
confirmation, in its letter to the Bank dated July 18, 1997, of its support of the 
objectives of the activities to be financed by the Grant, and its endorsement that the 
Recipient receive, the Grant. The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the purposes and 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Annex.
Lao-PDR, by confirming its agreement hereunder, confirms its commitment to the 
objectives of the activities to be financed by the Grant, and, to this end, hereby 
undertakes to: (i) take all action necessary or appropriate to enable the Recipient to 
carry out its obligations set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement; (ii) afford 
all reasonable opportunity for representatives of the Bank to visit any part of its 
territory for purposes related to the Grant; and (iii) ensure that this Letter 
Agreement shall be free from any taxes levied by or in the territory of Lao-PDR, or in 
connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
Please confirm your respective agreement to the above, on behalf of Lao-PDR and 
the Recipient, by duly signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed duplicate 
original of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt by the Bank of the duplicate original 
of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become 
effective as of the date of its countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala
Country Director, Lao-PDR
South East Asia and Mongolia Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
Page  2
CONFORMED AND AGREED
CONFIREMED AND AGREED
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
ELECTRICITE DU LAOS
By /s/ Xaysomphone Phomvihane
By /s/ Viraphonh Viravong
Minister of Finance
General Manager
Date: February 09, 1998
Date: February 09, 1998
ANNEX TO LETTER AGREEMENT DATED FEBRUARY 9, 1998
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Objectives, Activities and Expenditures to be Financed
1.1. The objective of the Grant is to increase access to electricity in remote, rural 
areas of Lao-PDR, and to demonstrate that renewable energy technologies (such as 
micro-hydro mini-grids and solar battery charging) are viable off-grid electrification 
options to displace diesel power generation. The objective of the Grant shall be 
attained by carrying out of the following Activities for which the Grant is given: (i) 
establishing local institutional, financial and technical capacity for sustainable 
implementation of off-grid rural electrification power generation, through the 
provision of consultants' services; (ii) installing rural electrification 
demonstration systems; (iii) carrying out pilot schemes to demonstrate the potential 
to displace diesel generators with rural electrification systems where possible to 
help reduce greenhouse gas emissions; and (iv) developing the institutional 
arrangements for a national off-grid rural electrification program incorporating 
modern rural electrification technologies, through the provision of consultants' 
services.
1.2. 
(a)
The following sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of amounts of the Grant to each category, 
and the percentage of expenditures for items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant:
Category
Amount of the Grant
% of Expenditures
of Items
Allocated in US$
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants'
650,000
100%
services
(2)
Goods
       94,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory
cost) and 70% of 
local
items procured 
locally
TOTAL
744,000
(b)
For the purposes of this paragraph, the term:
(i)
"foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Recipient; and
(ii)
"local expenditures" means expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures, provided, however, that if the currency of the 
Recipient is also that of another country from the territory of 
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such 
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be foreign 
expenditures.
1.3.
The Recipient will ensure that all goods and services financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant will be used exclusively for the purposes of the Activities. 
2.
Implementation General
Page  3
2.1.
The Recipient will: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with the provisions of this Letter Agreement; (b) 
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services, and other resources required for the 
purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant as the Bank may reasonably request; and (d) from time to time 
exchange views with the Bank's representatives on the progress and results of the 
Activities.
2.2.
The Recipient will ensure, or cause to be ensured, that any facilities relevant 
to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with 
appropriate practices and that any repairs or renewals of these facilities are 
promptly made as needed.
2.3.
The Bank may conduct periodic evaluations of the Activities. To this end, the 
Recipient will, upon the Bank's request, enable the representatives of the Bank to 
visit the sites and facilities, and inspect the goods, documents and financial 
records, related to the Activities.
2.4.
The Recipient will prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months 
after the completion of the Activities an evaluation report, in form and substance 
acceptable to the Bank, on the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)
Consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant will be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 
1997 and revised in September 1997 (the "Consultant Guidelines"); and
(b)
Goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant will be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I and the applicable provisions of Section 
III (as set forth below) of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 
and September 1997 (the "Guidelines").
3.2.
The following sets forth the categories of goods and consultants' services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, and the procedures for the procurement of 
these categories and for the review by the Bank of such procurement.
Contract Cost
Category
(expressed in
of Items
US$ equivalent)
Procedure
Bank Review
1. Goods
Any Amount
Shopping
Post
2. Consultants'
services
(a) Firms
$100,000 or more
QCBS
Complete 
Prior
(b) Firms
less than $100,000
CQ
Complete Prior
(c) Individuals
$50,000 or more
Individual
Complete 
Prior
(d) Individuals
less than $50,000
Individual
Post
3.3.
For purposes of paragraph 3.2 above, the term:
(a)
"Complete Prior" means: (A) with respect to contracts for consulting 
firms, the review procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (excluding the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines; and 
(B) with respect to contracts for individual consultants, review procedures whereby 
the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants are furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval; and the 
contract is awarded only after the Bank gives this approval.
(b) 
"CQ" means the procedures for selection of consultants based on the 
consultants' qualifications, set forth in paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
(c)
"Individual" means the procedures for the selection of individual 
consultants, set forth in paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  4
(d)
"Post" means: (A) with respect to contracts for goods, the review 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines with the word 
"bids" in this paragraph, being read as "quotations"; and (B) with respect to 
contracts for services, the review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines.
(e)
"QCBS" means the procedures for selection of consultants based on quality 
and cost of their services, set forth in Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof.
(f)
"Shopping" means the procedures for procurement of goods set forth in 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3 .6 of the Guidelines.
3.4.
The Recipient will ensure that: (a) all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant are insured against hazards incident to their acquisition, 
transportation and delivery to the place of use or installation; and (b) any indemnity 
for this insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or repair these 
goods.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant will be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the "Grant Account". The Recipient may withdraw 
the amount of the Grant from the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of 
this Letter Agreement, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of the items 
referred to in paragraph 1.2 of this Letter Agreement required for the Activities and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. Notwithstanding the foregoing: (a) no 
withdrawals of amounts from the Grant Account will be made: (i) for payments made 
prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Bank; (ii) on account 
of payments for any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Lao People's 
Democratic Republic; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in or services 
supplied from these territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if this payment or import, to the Bank's 
knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after June 30, 2004, or 
such later date as the Bank establishes by written notice to the Recipient (the 
"Closing Date"; and (b) if, in the Bank's opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to 
any of the items in the table in paragraph 3.2 above will be insufficient to finance 
the expenditures for such item, the Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, 
reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, 
in the Bank's opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.2.
When the Recipient will desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it 
will deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by the Bank. Withdrawal applications will be: (a) signed on behalf of 
the Recipient by its General Manager, or such other person as he or she will have 
authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence in support of the 
application as the Bank will reasonably request. Authenticated specimen signatures of 
the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications will be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature. Each withdrawal application for an amount of 
the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to 
satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant 
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities. The 
Bank will pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or 
on the order of the Recipient.
4.3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent; and (b) services 
of individual consultants costing less than fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000) 
equivalent; and (c) goods under contracts costing less than fifty thousand dollars 
($50,000) equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank will specify by 
notice to the Recipient.
4.4.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant will be made in the currency of the 
Grant. The Bank, at the Recipient's request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
will purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as will be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant. Whenever it will be necessary, for the purposes of this Letter 
Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value will 
Page  5
be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.5.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account (the "Special Account") in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account will be made in accordance with the following provisions:
(a)
For the purposes of the following provisions: (i) the term "eligible 
item(s)" means the item(s) set forth in the table in paragraph 1.2 of this Letter 
Agreement; (ii) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; and (iii) the term "authorized allocation" means an 
amount equivalent to one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) to be withdrawn from the 
Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to sub-paragraph (c) (i) 
below.
(b)
Payments out of the Special Account will be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with these provisions.
(c)
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the authorized allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account will be made as follows:
(i)
The Recipient will furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do 
not exceed the aggregate amount of the authorized allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank will, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient will 
have requested.
(ii)
(A)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient will 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank will specify.
(B)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient 
will furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to sub- paragraph (d) below for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank will, 
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient will have requested and as will have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits will be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant 
Account under the eligible item(s), and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as will have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
(d)
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient will, at such time as the Bank will reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (c) above, the Bank will not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: (i) if, at any time, 
the Bank will have determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the 
Recipient directly from the Grant Account; (ii) if the Recipient will have failed to 
furnish to the Bank, within the period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) 
below, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(iii) if, at any time, the Bank will have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 7.1. below; or (iv) once the 
total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant will equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant will follow such procedures as the Bank will specify by notice to the 
Recipient. Such further withdrawals will be made only after and to the extent that the 
Page  6
Bank will have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments, for 
eligible expenditures.
(f)
(i) If the Bank will have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (A) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to sub-paragraph (b) above; or (B) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Recipient will, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (ii) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank will so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank will otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account will be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be; and (ii) If the Bank will have determined at 
any time that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient will, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
5.
Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient will maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Grant, or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient will: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above, and the records and accounts for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank will have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
will from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient will: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one (1) year 
after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank's representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Settlement of Disputes
6.1.
Any dispute arising out of or relating to this Letter Agreement which is not 
settled by agreement of the parties hereto will be finally settled by arbitration in 
accordance with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules as at present in force. The number of 
arbitrators will be three. The place of arbitration will be Washington, D.C., U.S.A. 
In the event of a conflict between the UNCITRAL Arbitration rules and the terms of 
this Letter Agreement, the terms of this Letter Agreement will govern.
7.
Suspension and Cancellation
7.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient:
(a)
Suspend further withdrawals from the Grant Account if the Recipient fails 
to comply with any of its obligations specified in this Letter Agreement; and 
(b)
Cancel amounts of the Grant as follows:
(i)
The Bank may cancel any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn 
(A) at any time after withdrawals from the Grant Account have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of subparagraph (a) above; 
(B) at any time after withdrawal of any amount of the Credit has 
been suspended pursuant to the provisions of the Development 
Page  7
Credit Agreement; and (C) after the Closing Date.
(ii)
If at any time the Bank determines (A) with respect to any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant; 
or (B) that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant is inconsistent with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in this Letter Agreement and establishes the 
amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the 
Grant, the Bank may cancel this amount.
