Page  1
CONFORMED COPY     
CREDIT NUMBER 3047 LA
Project Agreement
(Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ELECTRICITE DU LAOS
Dated April 29, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3047 LA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 29, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the "Association”) and ELECTRICITE DU LAOS (“EDL”).
WHEREAS: (A)
By the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Lao People’s Democratic Republic (the “Borrower”) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty-five million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 25,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development 
Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that EDL agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS: (B)
By a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and EDL, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to EDL upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement, in respect of the Project, 
except Part C (c) thereof;
WHEREAS: (C) Part C (c) of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower 
through its Ministry of Industry and Handicrafts (“MIH”);
WHEREAS: (D) The Borrower has requested assistance from the resources of the 
Global Environment Facility (“GEF”) Trust Fund in the financing of Part B of the 
Project, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the “Bank”) has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with Resolution No. 94-02 of 
the Executive Directors dated May 24, 1994, establishing the GEF Trust Fund, and by an 
agreement dated February 9, 1998 between the Bank, acting as an implementing agency of 
the GEF and EDL (the “GEF Grant Agreement”), GEF is agreeing to provide such 
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to seven hundred forty-four 
Page  2
thousand dollars (the “GEF Grant”); and
WHEREAS: (E) EDL, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a)
EDL declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Parts A, B, C (a) and C (b) of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, environmental, 
engineering, financial and public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for said Parts of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Association and EDL shall otherwise agree, EDL shall carry out Parts 
A, B, C (a) and C (b) of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A, B, C (a) and C (b) of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a)
EDL shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B, C (a) and C 
(b) of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
any limitation thereto, EDL shall:
(i)
Prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date, or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Association and 
EDL, a plan for the future operation of 
Parts A, B, C (a) and C (b) of the 
Project; and
(ii)
Afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with EDL on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. EDL shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EDL shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) EDL shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A, B, C (a) and C (b) of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, and with regard to such other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credit.
Page  3
(b) 
EDL shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A, B, C (a) and C (b) 
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance 
by EDL of its obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the 
Performance Contract.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EDL
Section 3.01. EDL shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, economic, environmental, engineering, financial 
and public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. EDL shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
environmental, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. EDL shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. Except in the ordinary course of business, EDL shall not, unless 
mutually agreed in advance between the Association and EDL, sell, lease, transfer or 
otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which are required for the 
efficient conduct of its operations or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.05. EDL shall maintain its existence and right to carry on its 
operations, and it shall promptly take all measures necessary to acquire, maintain, 
renew and otherwise exercise any and all rights (including, without limitation, land 
rights), powers, privileges and franchises required for the proper conduct of its 
operations and the prompt carrying out of its obligations under this Agreement, the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Performance Contract.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)
EDL shall maintain records and separate accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b) EDL 
shall:
(i)
Have its records, accounts (including the Project accounts 
referred to in 
Section 4.01 (a) above) and financial 
statements (balance sheets, statements 
of income and expenses, cash flow 
statements and related notes) for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
Furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not  later  
than  six (6) months  after  the  end  of  each year, (A) 
certified copies of 
its financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall 
have reasonably requested;
(iii)
Furnish to the Association not later than June 30, 2000, and 
thereafter as 
soon as available but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end 
of each Fiscal Year, certified 
copies of cost accounting statements for each 
of its cost accounting 
units; and
Page  4
(iv)
Furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, EDL shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with sound accounting practices, records 
and separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(d)
EDL shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each 
Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, 
together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EDL shall not 
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of EDL 
shows that the estimated net revenues of EDL for each Fiscal Year during the term of 
the debt to be incurred shall be at least one and one-half (1.5) times the estimated 
debt service requirements of EDL in such year on all debt of EDL including the debt to 
be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    The term “debt” means any indebtedness of EDL maturing by its 
terms more 
than one (1) year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of  such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term “net revenues” means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of: (1) all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
Page  5
and payments in lieu of 
taxes, but excluding provision 
for depreciation, other non-cash 
operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt; and (2) 
dividends and 
major repairs expenditures.
(iv)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(vi)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast, expressed in 
dollars, 
prepared by EDL not earlier than four (4) months 
prior to the incurrence of 
the debt in question, which both the 
Association and EDL accept as reasonable 
and as to which the 
Association has notified EDL of its acceptability, 
provided that 
no event has occurred since such notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the 
financial condition or future operating results of EDL.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EDL shall (i) 
produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 
1998, funds from internal sources, equivalent to not less than twenty percent (20%) of 
the annual average of EDL’s capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, 
for that year, the previous Fiscal Year and the next following Fiscal Year; and (ii) 
produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 
1999, funds from internal sources, equivalent to not less than thirty percent (30%) of 
the annual average of EDL’s capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, 
for that year, the previous Fiscal Year and the next following Fiscal Year .
(b)
Before November 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, EDL shall, on the basis 
of forecasts, expressed in dollars, prepared by EDL and satisfactory to the 
Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) 
in respect of such year and the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the 
Association a copy of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that EDL would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for EDL’s fiscal years covered by such review, EDL shall 
promptly take all necessary measures within its power (including, without limitation, 
seeking and implementing approved adjustments of the structure or levels of its 
electricity rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) 
The term “funds from internal sources” means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
net 
non-operating income and any reduction in working 
capital other than 
cash; and
(B)
the sum of: (1) all expenses related to operations, 
including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes 
and payments in lieu of 
taxes (excluding provision for 
depreciation and other non-cash 
operating charges), debt 
service requirements, other cash distributions 
of surplus, 
increase in working capital other than cash and other cash 
outflows other than capital expenditures; and (2) major repairs 
expenditures. 
(ii)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:
Page  6
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iii)
The term “working capital other than cash” means the difference 
between 
current assets excluding cash and current liabilities 
at the end of each 
Fiscal Year. 
(iv)
The term “current assets excluding cash” means all assets other 
than cash 
which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within 
twelve (12) months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses 
within the next 
Fiscal Year.
(v)
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within twelve (12) months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(vii)
The term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures incurred on 
account of 
fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to 
operations.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EDL shall not 
incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall 
be greater than sixty (60) to forty (40).
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
(i)    The term “debt” means any indebtedness of EDL maturing by its 
terms more 
than one (1) year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment, on the date, and to the extent, 
the amount of such debt has become 
outstanding pursuant to such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under 
a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee 
has 
been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is 
outstanding.
(iii)
The term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of EDL not allocated 
to cover specific 
liabilities.
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Association. Section 4.05. EDL 
and the 
Association shall, from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views with regard to the Statement, the Borrower’s national policy 
for setting electricity tariffs, and the Borrower’s plans in respect of the 
overall development of its electricity sector. In this regard, EDL shall 
at 
all times take all actions necessary (including, but without 
Page  7
limitation to, 
increasing its electricity tariffs as may be 
necessary) to enable it, under 
conditions of efficient operation at 
reasonable levels of capacity 
utilization, to cover its 
operating costs (including taxes), earn an adequate 
return on funds 
invested in it, meet its financial and debt service 
obligations, and otherwise make a reasonable contribution to future investment 
for expansion of capacity.
Section 4.06. (a) EDL shall carry out its obligations under the Performance 
Contract with due diligence and efficiency, and shall otherwise take, or cause to be 
taken, all action necessary to achieve the objectives thereof. 
(b)
Not later than October 1 in each Fiscal Year, beginning the Fiscal Year 
ending December 31, 1998, EDL shall exchange views and review with the Association and 
the Borrower on the progress achieved by EDL and the Borrower in implementing the 
Performance Contract during the preceding Fiscal Year. 
(c)
Based upon said review, the Association, the Borrower and EDL shall 
determine jointly the actions necessary for improving the Performance Contract, and 
for improving both the Borrower’s and EDL’s implementation thereof in respect of the 
following Fiscal Year, including any extensions thereof, acceptable to the 
Association. 
(d)
EDL shall promptly thereafter, taking into account the Association’s 
views and recommendations, carry out the recommendations of said review with due 
diligence and efficiency, and shall otherwise take all necessary measures to achieve 
the objectives thereof.
Section 4.07. EDL shall not declare dividends until it shall have demonstrated, 
to the satisfaction of the Association, that it has complied with its financial 
performance obligations, under Section 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 of this Agreement, for a 
period of at least two (2) consecutive Fiscal Years.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
EDL thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify EDL of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
Page  8
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For EDL:
Electricite du Laos
Samsenthai Road
Post Office Box 309
Vientiane
Lao People’s Democratic Republic
Cable address:
Telex:
DIRELEC
4311 EDL VTE LS
VIENTIANE
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EDL may be 
taken or executed by EDL’s General Manager, or such other person or persons as said 
Director general shall designate in writing, and EDL shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/ Ngozo Okonjo-Iweala
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
      ELECTRICITE DU LAOS
By  /s/ Hiem Phommachanh
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  9
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
“Guidelines”) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost ten 
million dollars ($10,000,000) equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance 
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding 
Goods, which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number 
of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International or National Shopping 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed three hundred 
thousand dollars ($300,000) equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed nine hundred thousand 
dollars ($900,000) equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Force Account Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines, and costing forty thousand dollars ($40,000) equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be carried out by force 
account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
Page  10
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and each contract for works to be 
procured under Part B of this Section I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the "Consultant Guidelines”) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than one hundred 
thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than one hundred 
thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Least Cost Selection
Services under Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than one hundred 
thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent per contract for firms and less than fifty 
thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent for individuals may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services under Part C of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Page  11
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of two 
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 
2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred 
thousand dollars ($100,000) or more, but less than the equivalent of two hundred 
thousand dollars ($200,000), the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program 
1.
EDL shall at all times carry out Parts A, B, C (a) and C (b) of the Project in 
accordance with the PIP.
2.
EDL shall: 
(a)
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
3 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
Review with the Association, by October 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
3.
EDL shall, prior to carrying out the works necessary for the 115 KV 
subtransmission lines under Part A (a) of the Project, carry out the RAP with due 
diligence and efficiency, including (but without limitation) the resettlement and 
rehabilitation of Affected Persons in accordance with Entitlements Matrix as approved 
Page  12
by the Association. 
4.
EDL shall at all times carry out the training activities under the Project in 
accordance with a training program satisfactory to the Association.
SCHEDULE 3
Performance Indicators 
EDL shall at all times adhere to the following Performance Indicators in respect 
of its carrying out Parts A, B, C (a) and C (b) of the Project.
Activity
June 30, 2001
June 30, 2002
December 31, 2003
(1) Subtransmission systems
Installation
complete
(2)
New consumer
18,000
30,000
50,000
connections installed in
Project Provinces
(3)
Contracts for bid lots
Awarded 1-5 under Part A of
June 30, 1999
the Project
(4)
New consumer
 1,000
 3,000
 4,500
connections for off-
grid transmission under
Part B of the Project
(5)
Implementation of BACS
Installation
Operational
complete
