Document of
FILE COPY                          The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P- 2 31 3-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
tOBACCO HANDLING PROJECT
May 1, 1978
Thbis doument ka a resteted disbatlio and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their odic  duties. Ils eontnts may not otherwie be dislosed witiout Wodd Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =      Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
US$ 1.00               =     TSh 8.3
TSh 1.0                =     US$ 0.12
(As Tanzania Shilling is officially valued at a fixed
rate of 9.66 TSh to the SDR, the US Dollar/Tanzania
Shilling exchange rate is subject to change. Conver-
sions in this Report were made at US$1.00 to TSh 8.3
which is close to the 1977   average exchange rate.)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CCM         -    Chama Cha Mapinduzi
EAC         -    East African Community
ERB         -    Economic Research Bureau
KILIMO      -    Ministry of Agriculture
NADP        -    National Agricultural Development Program
PMO         -    Prime Minister's Office
TANU        -    Tanganyika African National Union
TAT         -    Tobacco Authority of Tanzania
TRDB        -    Tanzania Rural Development Bank
FISCAL YEAR
Government - July 1-June 30
TAT        -  March 1-February 28



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA: TOBACCO HANDLING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                 United Republic of Tanzania
BENEFICIARIES:            Tobacco Authority of Tanzania and the
Tanzania Rural Development Bank
AMOUNT:                   US$14 million equivalent
TERMS:                    Standard
RELENDING TERMS:          About US$2.6 million equivalent in IDA funds would be
relent to the Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (TAT) at
10% interest per annum for 10 years including five years
of grace; about US$2.4 million equivalent in IDA funds
would be relent to the Tanzania Rural Development Bank
(TRDB) at 4% interest per annum for 20 years including
five years of grace for onlending to project villages.
The balance of US$9.0 million in IDA funds equivalent
would be passed on by the Government to TAT as equity.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:              The proposed project would, over a four-year
period, aim to reduce the losses presently
suffered by smallholder tobacco producers
during tobacco handling. It would signifi-
cantly raise snmallholder incomes and increase
Tanzania's foreign exchange earnings. Speci-
fically, the project would finance bulking
bags, grading/baling centers, marketing
centers, vehicles and related maintenance
equipment, storage warehouses and ancillary
facilities, and incremental staff and tech-
nical assistance for TAT. The project faces no
special risks. While implementation could proceed
at a slower rate than anticipated as a result of
institutional deficiencies, this risk has been
minimized through the provision of technical
assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED COST:
US$ Nillion
Local     Foreign      Total
Bulking Bags                              0.2         0.5         0.7
Building Construction
Grading/Baling Centers                  1.8         0.4         2.2
Market Centers                          1.8         0.4         2.2
Warehouses and ancillary facilities   2.7           1.8         4.5
Other                                   0.3         0.2         0.5
Vehicles and Equipment                    0.5         3.4         3.9
Staff & Consultants                       0.5         0.8         1.3
Base Cost Estimates                        7.8        7.5        15.3
Physical Contingencies                    0.8         0.4         1.2
Price Contingencies                        2.4        1.8         4.2
Total Project Cost                    11.0         9.7        20.7
of which taxes and duties            0.2          -          0.2
Project cost net of taxes & duties  10.8           9.7        20.5
FINANCING PLAN:                                Local     Foreign      Total      %
IDA              4.3        9.7        14.0      68
Government       6.7         -          6.7      32
11.0        9.7        20.7    100
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:
US$ Million
IDA Fiscal Year      FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82       FY83
Annual                .2       4.6     4.0      3.4      1.8
Cumulative            .2       4.8     8.8    12.2      14.0
RATE OF RETURN:                    24%
APPRAISAL REPORT:                  Report No. 1866-TA dated April 24, 1978



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A TOBACCO HANDLING PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
to the United Republic of Tanzania for the equivalent of US$14 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a project to improve tobacco handling in
Tanzania. Approximately US$2.4 million equivalent would be relent to the
Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) at 4 percent interest per annum for
20 years including 5 years of grace for onlending to project villages. Approxi-
mately US$2.6 million equivalent would be relent to the Tobacco Authority of
Tanzania (TAT) at 10 percent per annum for 10 years including 5 years of
grace for project investments. The balance of US$9.0 million equivalent would
be passed on by the Government to TAT as equity.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 7!
Introduction
2.       A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976.  The Basic
Economic Report was distributed in December 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
3.        Tanzania has experienced a degree of continuity and stability in
political structure, leadership and objectives which is unrivaled in Africa.
The TANUZ/ party, under the leadership of President Nyerere, has been the
unifying force in Tanzania's political evolution since the early 1950s. For
the past decade, following the Arusha Declaration in early 1967, Tanzania has
pursued the objectives of social equality, self-reliance, the eradication of
poverty and economic and social transformation. The Government has emphasized
rural development, social ownership of the principal means of production, and
full participation of all regions and population groups in the development
process. Economic growth has been an important objective but the leadership
has been willing to forego short-term income gains for longer-term structural
change and more equitable distribution. In restructuring the political, eco-
nomic and social life of the country the leadership has introduced a series of
far-reaching institutional reforms: most large-scale units in manufacturing,
finance and wholesale trade have been nationalized; the Government has sharply
increased its share of revenue in GDP through progressive taxation; a signi-
ficant portion of public sector expenditure control has been delegated to the
regions and districts and a massive campaign of villagization has been ini-
tiated to bring the rural population together into viable long-term development
units.
1/ This section is substantially repeated in President's Reports on the
proposed Second Cashewnut Development Project dated May 1, 1978 and the
proposed Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project dated May 1, 1978.
2/ TANU (the mainland political party) was merged with the Zanzibar political
party (the Afro-Shirazi Party) in February 1977. The new party is now
called Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM).



- 2 -
4.        With a per capita income of US$180, Tanzania is classified as one
of the least developed countries as defined by the United Nations (country
data are provided in Annex I). Between 1967 and 1973 Tanzania's GDP at
factor cost was growing at an annual rate of 4.5 percent. With population
growing at 2.7 percent per year, per capita output was rising at only 1.8
percent per year on average. Domestic savings reached 18 percent of GDP
while gross investment was sustained at between 20 to 25 percent of GDP,
extremely high rates for a country at Tanzania's low level of per capita
income. However, the growth rate in GDP was not commensurate with the
magnitude of the investment effort, in part because of the high proportion
of investment which was directed into slow-gestation infrastructure and
social services projects but also because of sluggish growth in the agri-
cultural sector and stagnant or declining productivity in parastatal enter-
prises. During this period Tanzania's overall balance of payments situation
was generally satisfactory, despite the disappointing performance in the
export sector. The rapid growth in imports was more than compensated by
increasing capital inflows, largely from bilateral sources on soft terms.
The overall balance of payments was in surplus in most years during 1969-73,
resulting in a modest buildup in net foreign exchange reserves to slightly
over US$150 million at the end of 1973, the equivalent of almost four months
imports.
The Economic Crisis of 1974 and the Government's Response
5.        In 1974 Tanzania was suddenly confronted with a severe economic
crisis. Failure of rains in late 1973 and early 1974 caused a massive
decline in production and marketing of the major foodgrains and the Govern-
ment was compelled to import large quantities of grain. Tanzania's main
export crops were also affected by the drought, and the resultant declines
in export volumes prevented Tanzania from taking advantage of the commodity
price boom of 1974. These agricultural problems were compounded by the disloca-
tion resulting from the rapid expansion of the villagization program (para. 22).
On the import side, total cost of merchandise imports rose by over 50 percent
between 1973 and 1974, despite a slight decline in volume. As a result of
these factors the trade deficit widened from US$158 million in 1973 to US$340
million in 1974 while the overall balance of payments moved from a surplus
to a deficit of US$140 million. This balance of payments gap was financed
largely through drawings from the IMF and a rapid depletion of reserves.
Net reserves fell to US$60 million at the end of 1974, equivalent to only one
month's import requirements. Industrial production also stagnated in 1974
due to shortages of imported raw materials and interruptions in power and
water supplies. While production declined, domestic demand increased rapidly
because of expansionary fiscal, monetary and wage policies. The imbalance
between domestic demand and supply, combined with the sharp escalation in
import prices, resulted in severe pressure on the domestic price level.
6.        Once the extent of the problems facing the country was realized,
the Government formulated a comprehensive package of policy actions to
bring the balance of payments under control while maintaining the pace of
its development effort. The principal elements of the package included a



- 3 -
reallocation of investment in favor of directly productive sectors, measures
to raise agricultural output, and constraints on wages and on public and
private consumption. Government budget allocations to agricul ,ure and
industry were substantially increased; significant increases were approved
in agricultural producer prices; tight import controls were implemented;
indirect taxes on consumer goods increased; user charges for water and
electricity were raised and an extremely restrictive wage and salary policy
was followed. This package was reviewed with the Bank at the time of
appraisal and negotiation of the Program Loan in late 1974, and approval
of that Loan was based on the Bank's agreement with and support of the
policy package. Approval of the subsequent Program Credit in 1977 was
based on the Government's overall performance in implementing the agreed
upon program.
Economic Performance since 1974
7.       The major macroeconomic indicators have generally improved since
1974, reflecting both improved weather conditions and the effects of the
policy measures introduced to deal with the crisis. Agricultural production
increased by 6.5 percent in 1975 compared to a decline of 3.3 percent in
1974, while total GDP grew by 4.6 percent compared with only 2.2 percent
in 1974. This was despite the fact that during 1975 production of cotton
and some other cash crops still suffered from disorganization due to villag-
ization. In 1976 some of the problems of villagization were being rectified
through "operation correction," and since rains were once again favorable,
agricultural production was generally good. Agricultural production increased
by about 4.5 percent in real terms in 1976, industrial production expanded
6.2 percent and GDP grew 5.2 percent.  Preliminary estimates are that
agriculture and total production expanded by about 5 percent again in 1977.
8.       The goods and services account of the balance of payments con-
tinued to deteriorate in 1975 due to continuing production difficulties,
declines in some agricultural export prices and the continuing need to
import food for part of the year. The trade deficit increased from US$340
million in 1974 to US$400 million in 1975. Even after allowing for a high
level of project-related capital inflows and a huge increase in grant
assistance and concessional food aid, there was a residual deficit of
almost US$75 million. Whereas the 1974 residual deficit was filled almost
entirely through the combination of IMF assistance and reserve depletion,
the 1975 deficit was met through foreign assistance from a variety of
sources, including the US$30 million Program Loan from the World Bank
(para. 6). In-1976 and 1977 the balance of payments picture improved.
The trade deficit declined due to strong export performance, especially
for coffee and cotton, and to a slight fall in the value of imports
occasioned by a greatly lessened need for foodgrain imports and continuing
tight restrictions on all other categories of imports. The overall balance
of payments surplus was about US$35 million during 1976 and continued in
surplus throughout 1977. Gross foreign exchange reserves at the end of
1977 amounted to US$280 million, or about four months imports.



- 4 -
Because of the very concessional terms on which aid has been given to
Tanzania and the Government's caution in using higher cost commercial loans
and suppliers' credits, the overall debt service ratio has remained low.
Including a notional 40 percent share of the debt of the East African Com-
munity Corporations, it was less than 8 percent in 1977. While the favorable
terms of much of Tanzania's foreign assistance (particularly the increasing
proportion of grants) significantly reduce the debt service burden, they also
increase Bank exposure. Debt service payments to the Bank Group were
about 28.6 percent of Tanzania's total debt service payments in 1977. This
is projected to rise to approximately 30 percent in 1980.
9.       Tanzania has a suitable development program which will require
substantial domestic funds in excess of local savings and external capital.
In view of our support for the Government's increased emphasis on local cost
intensive rural investments and the need not to aggravate the local funds
shortage, local cost financing is justified on country grounds.
East African Community (EAC)
10.       The recent developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977. Dr. Victor
Umbricht, the independent mediator recently appointed by the Partner States,
visited East Africa in February and has begun work on the questions involved
in appraising the assets and liabilities of the EAC Corporations and making
recommendations on their allocations. The de facto breakup of the Community
is expected to have some impact on Tanzania's budget as new national corpo-
rations take over the services formerly provided by the EAC Corporations.
While substantial initial investments are required (particularly in the
formation of the airways corporation and the rehabilitation of the railways),
the burden on the Government budget will hopefully be temporary as the new
corporations should become self financing. A major development related to
the EAC difficulties was the closure of the border with Kenya. Kenya was a
major trading partner of Tanzania and in the short run considerable adjust-
ments have had to be made in locating new suppliers for some items and
developing outlets for some manufactured goods and agricultural products.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
11.       Tanzania joined  the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1962, 30 IDA credits, 13 Bank loans and two
Third Window loans amounting to $506.0 million have so far been approved
for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10 loans
totalling $244.8 million which have been extended for the development of
the common services and development bank operated regionally by Tanzania,
Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African Community.
The only IFC investments in Tanzania to date, totalling $4.7 million,
were made to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company
encountered financial difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors



- 5 -
sold their interest in the Company to the Government. A proposal for an
IFC investment in soap manufacturing is now under consideration. Annex II
contains summuary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Tanzania and
the East African Community organizations as of March 31, 1978 and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
12.      In keeping with Tanzania's overall development strategy, Bank Group
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and directly
productive projects. Up to the end of FY72, 10 out of 14 loans and credits
made individually to Tanzania had been for infrastructure. The overwhelming
majority of the operations approved since then have been for directly productive
projects. Furthermore, a number of Bank Group supported infrastructure pro-
jects have been closely linked with specific productive activities. For
example, the Urban Water Supply Project (Loan No. 1354-TA) approved in December
1976, will support the recently approved Industrial Complex in Morogoro (Loans
No. 1385-TA and 1385-T-TA) and the proposed Morogoro Textile Project. Other
directly productive projects are supporting both the agricultural and industrial
sectors, including the Kigoma Integrated Rural Development Project (Credit No.
508-TA), the National Maize Project (Credit No. 606-TA), the Fisheries Develop-
ment Project (Credit No. 658-TA), the Tabora Development Project (Credit No.
703-TA), three Tanzanian Investment Bank Projects (Credit No. 460-TA and
Loans No. 1172-TA and No. 1498-TA), and the Mwanza Textile Project (Loan No.
1128-TA). The first Bank Group assisted project in the forestry sector, the
Sao Hill Forestry Project (Loan No. 1307-TA), approved in July 1976, will
provide the raw materials for Tanzania's first paper and pulp plant, also
under nreDaration for consideration hv the Bank GrouD for financine. A
Trucking Industry Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (Credit No. 743-TA)
and a Second National Sites and Services Project (Credit No. 732-TA) were also
recently approved by the Board. Three other projects are scheduled for pre-
sentation to the Executive Directors before the end of this fiscal year--the
Mwanza Shinyanga Rural Development Project, the Second Cashewnut Development
Project and the Morogoro Textile Project. Projects which have been appraised
include a Tourism Project, a Second Urban Water Supply Project and a Fifth
Highway Project. A Rural Development Project in Mara, an Agricultural Services
Project, a line of credit to the Tanzanian Rural Development Bank and a Harbours
Project are also under preparation.
13.      Although the comparatively high proportion of undisbursed loans and
credits, detailed in Annex II (page 27), is in large part a result of the
recent approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact that
overall project implementation has been slower than was projected. It is
clear in retrospect that both the Bank and Tanzania have been optimistic
regarding Tanzania's absorptive capacity.  The causes of the difficulties in
implementation are varied.  Some stem from the scarcity of suitably trained
and experienced manpower, some reflect the problems in identifying agronomic
input packages appropriate to the needs of smallholder farmers while others
result from the strains associated with attempting a "frontal attack" on
poverty. These problems have been compounded by frequent and drastic admi-
nistrative changes, which--though potentially the source of long-term benefits--
have certainly disrupted orderly execution of projects and made parts of
earlier project concepts obsolete. In general, these difficulties have been



- 6 -
most severe in agriculture, particularly in the smallholder rural sector. As
our lending program has increasingly concentrated on this sector, these problems
have become correspondingly more apparent and severe. By contrast, the "modern"
sector projects have tended to fare better. The Tanzania Investment Bank,
Mwanza Textile, and Cashewnut Processing Projects, for example, are proceeding
well.
14.      As the Bank's lending program has expanded, increasing attention has
been given to measures designed to improve project implementation. A course
was conducted in Dar es Salaam in 1973 on the Bank's procurement policies and
procedures with the relevant Government officials. A special project imple-
mentation unit was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and nine Agricultural
Development Service staff have been assigned to Bank projects. The need to
establish a close and continuous working level dialogue between responsible
Tanzanian officials and Bank staff on following-up implementation problems was
one of the prime reasons for the expansion of the Resident Mission to two
professionals in October 1976. In February 1977 a regular Government/Bank
review of project implementation was established. Discussions, chaired by the
Ministry of Finance and attended by Bank staff and officials from implementing
agencies, were held in Dar es Salaam on the entire Bank Group program. Steps
to strengthen this review proceduxe were taken in August 1977 when those
meetings were shifted to a monthly basis. The Government also agreed that
periodically these reviews will be conducted on an "in-depth" basis to discuss
in detail individual problem projects and problems which are affecting project
implementation across a number of sectors.  As a result of these reviews a
number of positive developments have been noted. Most of the actions agreed
to during the reviews have been completed. In addition, the reviews have
significantly improved coordination and communication by providing an oppor-
tunity for project agencies to discuss their problems with all ministries
involved and with high level officials in the Ministry of Finance. During
the two in-depth reviews in October 1977 and January 1978 a series of general
implementation issues were discussed with senior Tanzanian officials and
follow-up actions or investigations agreed upon.
15.      The Government has also become increasingly conscious of imple-
mentation. In addition to fully supporting the project implementati.on review
system, the Ministry of Finance has now set up an internal unit to oversee
project performance. Furthermore, there have been more consistent responses
to Bank suggestions and a willingness to openly discuss project problems
raised by Bank staff. As a consequence, the project disbursement record has
improved somewhat over the last two years and a recent analysis indicated
that the Tanzanian disbursement performance is about equal to the Bank-wide
average. However, it should be noted that significant potential for further
improvements exists as a wide range of serious long-term bottlenecks remain.
This is particularly true in the agriculture and rural development sector
where individual projects face a considerable number of constraints in trying
to increase the incomes of smallholders (the lack of proven technical
packages, a weak extension system, problems in input distribution and output
collection, etc.).



- 7 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Background
16.      Agriculture and related activities constitute the largest single
sector in the Tanzanian economy. About 94 percent of the population lives in
rural areas, and 90 percent of the economically active population is engaged
in agriculture. Roughly 40 percent of GDP is derived from the sector, of
which about half constitutes subsistence production. In addition, agricultural
exports (processed and unprocessed) account for about 80 percent of total
exports. The major export commodities are cotton, coffee, sisal, cashewnuts,
tea and tobacco.
17.      Most agricultural production is from smallholdings using family
labor. Large-scale agriculture is confined to a small number of private
estates and state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea, sugar, wheat, rice
and livestock. Estate production has diminished in importance since inde-
pendence and the state farm program remains small. Tanzania's national
livestock herd, the second largest in Africa, is grazed extensively over the
40 percent of the country wnich is free from tsetse fly infestation. It is
largely managed along traditional lines.
18.      Recent performance of the agricultural sector has been disappointing.
The long-term growth rate of agricultural output between 1967 and 1976 was
only 2.8 percent per annum--about equal to population growth. Moreover, food
crop production has failed to keep pace with the expanding population and
Tanzania has become increasingly dependent on imports of maize, rice and
wheat. This deteriorating food balance position was seriously aggravated by
the poor drought-affected harvests of 1973 and 1974 which necessitated large
foodgrain imports. While real agricultural production increased by 6.5 percent
in 1975 and by a further 4.5 percent in 1976, these increases represent
primarily a recovery from the drought and only return agricultural expansion
to its long-term growth path. Concern with increasing the historical long-
term growth rate remains central to the Bank Group's investment strategy in
Tanzania.
Agricultural Development Strategy
19.      The Government has undertaken a comprehensive program to support
the development of productive activities in the agricultural sector, in
conjunction with efforts to achieve balanced regional growth and more equitable
income distribution (para. 3). While there has been a major emphasis on
improving the availability of social services (particularly in health, water
supply and education), in the aftermath of the drought and the balance of
payments difficulties the Government has made increased output the major focus
of its investments in rural areas. Specifically it has placed considerable
attention on those crops which represent sources of foreign exchange earnings.
The proposed project fits into this strategy, and, although tobacco generates
only about 6 percent of current foreign exchange earnings, the potential for
expansion of output and exports is significant. In addition to according



- 8 -
priority to the expansion of selected export crops, the Government has given
greater emphasis to its program of self-sufficiency in food production,
assisted "-- an IDA Credit of US$18.0 million for a National Maize Project
(Credit No. 606-TA).
20.      Lo-Cg-terin support for the Government's focus on increasing production
was expected to be channeled through the National Agricultural Development
Program (NADP), a series of projects identified in the Agricultural Sector
Report (No. 541a-TA dated December 10, 1974). These projects were expected to
involve the development of "national" programs designed to concentrate and
coordinate development efforts on the 40 or so agro-economic zones of the
highest potential. In fact, as noted below (para. 31), the proposed project
was a component of the first phase NADP. However, recent developments in the
sector, particularly in Bank-supported projects, have raised serious questions
as to the feasibility of this approach. While "national" projects oriented
toward production were expected to be consistent with Tanzania's decentralized
Government structure, this has not been achieved. The regions have not in
practice felt responsible for implementing "nationally" conceived and directed
programs. At the same time the regions have complained that many of the central
services which they require (e.g., research, input delivery and marketing),
and clearly accept as national responsibilities, are not being effectively
provided. As a result of these developments, a new Bank strategy for agri-
culture has emerged. In order to ensure regional responsibility and the
development of locally appropriate technical packages (particularly those
required by the more intensive cultivation practices in the new villages), a
number of regional projects have been approved or are being prepared (para. 12).
While these projects will focus on production efforts, we will not hesitate
to support regional infrastructure when its absence is constraining production.
At the same time, attempts to strengthen the ability of central ministries
to provide essential support services to the regional "production units"
will be made via national projects, e.g., in processing, marketing, and
storage. The proposed project fits into this latter category. With this
revised and consistent strategy, we expect a basis will be established for
improving the disappointing growth rate in agriculture (para. 18).
Rural Organization
21.      In order to improve the design and execution of development projects
and programs and to mobilize local resources, the Government, in 1972, adopted
a decentralized administrative structure. Regions (20 in all) and Districts
(80) were granted primary responsibility for the planning and implementation
of development activities within their jurisdictions, and were given a high
degree of administrative autonomy. The Prime Minister's Office provides
overall policy direction, coordinates regional plans and budgets and assists
Regions as appropriate in preparing their development programs. While it is
clear that this decentralization of authority has improved communication
between the Government and the villages (as the civil service operating at
the district and regional levels are directly involved in integrated rural
development efforts), problems of manpower, and of ill-defined division of
responsibility between the regions, central ministries and parastatals persist.



22.       In order to facilitate the provision of infrastructure and services
to the rural population and to encourage self-reliance, the grouping of farm
families into villages, villagization, is a key element of Government strategy.
The acceleration of the Government's villagization program was given high
priority in 197-- 74 and at present, over three-quarters of Tanzania's rural
population are contained in about 7,700 registered villages. These registered
villages, each containing between 250 and 650 families,elect a village Council
which exercises wide judicial and administrative powers over the political,
economic and social development of the village. It is too early to judge
how effectively the villages will be able to meet their ambitious goals.
However, it has been established that more attention to village siting and
size is needed to overcome problems of overgrazing, soil depletion, and of
increased travel to water, firewood and fields.
Agricultural Services
23.      The Ministry of Agriculture (Kilimo) is responsib2e for the cverall
planning and monitoring of the sector as well as coordinating agricultural
research, training of extension staff, pricing policy in the sector, seed
multirlication and supervision of agricultural parastatals. Agricultural
research is undertaken by a wide variety of government agencies and while
Kilimo has been given the responsibility of overall coordination, research
resources have not always been allocated in accordance with development
priorities. Agricultural extension services are provided by staff trained by
Kilimo, and are under the control of the regional administration. The links
between research and extension are weak, and field staff are often poorly
trained and inadequately supervised. A major review of the extension system
has been underway in Tanzania for about two years, and IDA has agreed to work
with the Government on a survey of the needs in this area with the intention
of subsequently preparing a research and extension training component in the
proposed Agricultural Services Project (para. 12). Pricing policy is an important
tool of the Government in the agricultural sector. Since 1974, Government has
accorded greater recognition to the need to give farmers production incentives;
crop and livestock prices are now reviewed annually and substantial producer
price increases have been made in recent years. A related issue which Kilimo
is involved with is that of input pricing. In recent years, Government has
encouraged the use of inputs (in particular fertilizer) through subsidization.
In 1974 fertilizer was distributed at no charge; the subsidy is now 50 percent.
However, because of ensuing problems (wastage, use on areas where inputs are
uneconomical, etc.), greater attention is being paid by the Government to en-
suring that inputs are distributed for use only where their use is profitable.
In the past, Tanzania has suffered from a shortage of good quality seed, and
bilateral aid has been directed at attempting to improve this situation.
Consideration will be given to supplementing these efforts under the proposed
Agricultural Services Project. Agricultural Marketing Parastatals, which exist
for major crops and livestock, play a key role in agricultural marketing. The
tendency has been for progressive enlargement by Government of the role and
scope of these institutions, and this has, in many cases, placed a severe
strain on their manpower resources. Overall operational efficiency is low,
with correspondingly high trading margins. The Government is aware of the
problems and must now begin to develop a comprehensive program for addressing
them.



- 10 -
24.      The Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) was established in 1971
to provide long- and medium-term finance and technical assistance for the
promotion of rural development. At its founding, it was stressed that TRDB
was intended to be a sound financial institution and therefore would only
extend credit to economically viable activities. TRDB is wholly Government-
owned with an authorized capital of TSh 300 million. Its management is
vested in a Board of Directors, including a Chairman and Managing Director
(appointed by the President) and eight other Directors appointed by the
Minister of Finance from among persons with knowledge and experience of
economic and financial matters, rural development, agriculture, small-scale
industries, ujamaa villages or cooperatives. TRDB has its head office in
Dar-es-Salaam and 20 regional offices. The Association was consulted during
the establishment of TRDB and has been extensively involved with its develop-
ment. TRDB has played the role of financial intermediary in a considerable
number of Bank Group agricultural and rural development projects and, as
noted above (para. 12), a separate line of credit for TRDB is being prepared
for consideration for Bank Group financina. Since its founding, TRDB oper-
ations have been complicated by villagization, decentralization, the elimina-
tion of the regional cooperative unions (its largest group of borrowers), as
well as the drought.  All these deveLopment:- tve  .eated special prc-.ems
for TRDB, and weaknesses in its portfolio reflect these difficulties. Yet
throughout this period, TRDB has increased its level of operations and signi-
ficantly upgraded its staff. Bank Group missions have noted TRDB's ability
to deal with its problems and expansion and have been particularly impressed
by its management. In respect to the proposed project, TRDB will serve as
financial intermediary for two major components (bulking bags and grading
and baling centers).
The Tobacco Subsector
25.      The Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (TAT) was established as a statu-
tory body under the Tobacco Industry Act of 1972. TAT's functions include
supervision of growers, control of tobacco transport, processing and export,
and the regulation of tobacco marketing. The Minister of Agriculture has
direct responsibility for overseeing the activities of TAT which is headed
by a Board of Directors representing concerned government ministries, regional
authorities and tobacco growers. Day-to-day control over TAT activities rests
with the full-time General Manager. TAT is organized into four functional
Departments at headquarters (Manpower Development and Administration; Finance;
Marketing; and Development and Planning), and has eight regional offices. In the
past, TAT has experienced serious organizational and management problems, but
the situation has improved since the appointment of the present General Manager
in 1975. TAT is still hampered by lack of specialist staff, particularly in the
Finance Department. Technical assistance to strengthen TAT's Finance, Manpower
Development and Administration and Development and Planning Departments would be
provided under the proposed project.
26.      In the last three years (1975/76 to 1977/78), TAT has recorded large
cash deficits, partly as a result of being required by Government to subsidize
the sale of fertilizer to farmers (para. 23), and partly as a result of being
required by Government to finance a considerable portion of tobacco develop-
ment expenditure, As a result, at the end of February 1978, TAT had a bank



- 11 -
overdraft of about TSh 80 million. Projections of TAT's financial
position show that, as a result of meeting its development committients,
including contributing to the costs of the Tobacco Processing Project
(Credit No. 658-TA), TAT's bank overdraft would rise to TSh 178 million
by 1982 (about 40 percent of gross TAT sales revenues). To attempt to
rectify this situation, measures for the resolution of TAT's financial
problems have been agreed with the Government (para. 51).
27.      Tobacco Production.  In the last 13 years, the production of
tobacco in Tanzania has increased from 5 million kg to over 18 million
kg. Most of this expansion in production was achieved in the smallholder
subsector, where 75 percent of Tanzania's tobacco is grown by about 54,000
families cultivating an average of 0.5 ha of tobacco each.  Thus, tobacco
has proven to be the one area where smallholder production performance has
improved consistently over the past decade. The average smallholder pro-
duces a crop with a potential marketed yield Of over 1100 kg of cured leaf
per hectare. It is, however, estimated that up to 45 percent of this crop
is lost due to shortage of barn capacity, poor curing techniques and in-
efficient bulking and grading operations. Consequently, the average small-
holder produces only 550 to 600 kg per hectare of saleable tobacco. There
is, therefore, considerable potential for an increase in marketed production
through reduction of these losses.
28.       The main tobacco growing areas are Tabora, Iringa and Mbeya Regions
for flue-cured tobacco, and Ruvuma Region for fire-cured tobacco. Smaller
quantities of tobacco are produced in the Shinyanga; Rukwa, Singida, West
Lake and Kigoma Regions. For the next few years, TAT has adopted a policy of
consolidation, during which efforts will be concentrated on raising production
in existing villages, through recruitment of new farmers and through increases
in areas and yields. With this program, TDA staff estimate production will
grow at a rate of 7 percent per annum. On this basis, production would
increase from 18.,3 million kg in 1976/77 to about 30 million kg in 1982/83
and to about 39 million kg in 1986/87.
29.       Previous IDA Tobacco Projects.  An IDA credit for US$9.0 million
(Credit No. 217-TA) was extended in October 1970 for a project designed to
increase the production of flue-cured tobacco. The project aimed at settling
some 15,000 new tobacco growers in villages of 100 families each. The project
provided for on-farm credit, extension services, construction of curing barns
and grading sheds, access roads, water supplies, a minor expansion of processing
facilities and additional storage. Progress has been slower than expected, re-
flecting delays in construction of water supplies, slow recruitment of farmers
(due to the early emphasis on communal production) and low participation in
tobacco growing by settled farmers (who chose to devote most of their efforts
to maize production). A full review of the project was carried out in 1972,
resulting in the rephasing of both physical devrelopment and of project costs,
and the establishment of more realistic production targets.  Tobacco production



- 12 -
from the project remains disappointing, with production reaching only
30 percent of the revised estimates. However, the project has established
settled farming in an area of previously largely unoccupied land and has
contributed suivstantially to foodgrain production.  It is anticipated that,
over the next few years, tobacco production from the project should repre-
sent an increasingly significant part of total national production.
30.      An IDA credit of US$8.0 million (Credit No. 658-TA) was approved
in September 1976 for a project which provided for improvement and enlarge-
ment of existing processing facilities at Morogoro, for construction of
storage and offices at Dar-es-Salaam, for technical assistance and training
and for a study of the need for further tobacco processing investments.
Somae contracts for project equipment have already been awarded, and machinery
installation commenced in November 1977. However, it has become apparent
that more storage space is required at Morogoro than is provided for under
the project, hence the proposed project contains provision for the con-
struction of additional storaae facilities at Morogoro (Dara. 40).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The project was prepared by the Government of Tanzania, with the
assistance of the Regional Mission in East Africa, as one component of Phase T
of the National Agricultural Development Program (NADP). As such, its appraisal
was partially completed in June/July 1977 during the NADP appraisal mission.
However, following the return of the NADP I appraisal mission, it was decided
that the tobacco handling component of that project should be treated as a
separate project. At the same time it was concluded that of the remaining com-
ponents of the Phase I NADP project only those involving central services should
be done on a "national basis"; production elements should be left to the regions.
As a result, further preparation work on the service components of the Phase I
NADP is being completed as an Agricultural Services Project (para. 12). The
appraisal of the Tobacco handling Project was then completed in October 1977.
Negotiations were held in April 1978 and the Tanzanian delegation was led
by Mr. E. Mulokozi, Principal Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
A Staff Appraisal Report on a Tobacco Handling Project is being distributed
separately and a credit and project summary is at the front of this report.
Project Objectives and Description
32.       The proposed project would, over a four-year period, aim at
significantly reducing the losses (totalling perhaps 25 percent of the value
of smallholder production) which occur during tobacco handling from curing
barn to processing factory. It also continues and expands the Bank Group's
efforts at increasing the capacity of TAT to encourage and support develop-
ment of Tanzania's tobacco subsector. In fact the project continues the
cycle of Bank Group involvement in tobacco -- in the ongoing projects
financing production and processing, the tobacco handling problem has been
identified as a major bottleneck requiring further investment. Specifically,
the project would include financing for:
(a) the supplv to tobacco farmers of polythene bulking bags;
(b) the conctrnuction of about 80 village grading/baling centers;



- 13 -
(c)  the const-ruction of about 40 permanent marketing centers
in strategic locations;
the supply to TAT of tractors, trailers and seven- and
ten-ton trucks for the transportation of tobacco and
tobacco inputs; the supply of four-wheel drive vehicles
and motorcycles for use of TAT extension and marketing
staff; and the expansion of TAT vehicle maintenance
facilities;
(e) completion of an adequate master plan for and provision of
additional wet-leaf and processed leaf storage warehouses
and packing materials storage at the Songea fire-cured
tobacco processing factory;
(f) the construction of storage warehouses and ancillary
facilities (offices, yards, etc.) at the important
road/rail junctions of Itigi and Makumbako;
(g) the construction of 11,000 m2 of additional storage at
the Morogoro flue-cured tobacco processing factory; and
(h) technical assistance for project implementation and
studies needed for the tobacco subsector.
Detailed Features
33.       Bulking Bags.  Under present Tanzanian smallholder conditions,
tobacco is stored either in the farmer's house or in makeshift temporary
storage, where it is often damaged while the farmer accumulates sufficient
cured leaf to enable him to complete bales. It has been estimated that
total losses occurring in this way amount to as much as 200 kg per hectare
of production. In addition to these losses, the quality, and hence the
sales value, of the tobacco is lowered. Experience with smallholders in
Nlalawi and Zambia has shown that the use of large polythene bags for the
bulking of tobacco enables a considerable reduction of wastage and improve-
ment of tobacco quality. Provision would be made under the project for
the supply to tobacco producers of polythene bags each permitting
the storage of about 30 kg of tobacco. These bags would be procured by TRDB
and made available to farmers on seasonal credit, with the cost, plus interest
charges, being deducted from the farmers' sales receipts, in the same way
as for other tobacco inputs. The credit would finance the total cost of bags
purchased in the first year of the project and the incremental annual cost of
bags purchased thereafter (Schedule 1 of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).
34.       Grading/Baling Centers.  After tobacco has been cured and bulked,
it is graded and baled. At present, Tanzanian smallholder tobacco farmers
grade their crops on farm, and bring their tobacco to a central baiing point
wheni sufficient quantities have been accumulated.  Baling is largely con-
ducted in the open air, cr i-r. small temporary structures which have been



- 14 -
built by villages or TAT for that purpose. Under these circumstances, the
condition of the tobacco deteriorates and consistent grading is difficult
to achieve. To address this, the project would provide for the construction
of village grading and baling centers in all villages achieving annual
production in excess of 100,000 kg of cured tobacco. Based on a detailed
study of village production data, it is estimated that about 80 villages
would qualify for provision of grading/baling centers during the project
period. These centers would be of four sizes, ranging from 360 mZ to
630 m2. Specific criteria for minimum village production, and for
relating production to center size, would be applied (Section 2.06(a)
of the draft Project Agreement). TAT and TRDB, in conjunction with
the regional authorities and villages,would prepare by December 31, 1978
and each subsequent December 31 a program of the proposed annual construc-
tion of grading/baling centers. Such programs would be submitted to the
Association for its information by January 31, 1979 and each following
January 31 (Section 2.06(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
35.     Marketing Centers.  TAT has only 18 permanent market centers where
it can classify smallholder tobacco bales before purchase. Substantial
classification therefore has to take place in the open air. As a result,
there is some loss of tobacco quality and the marketing process can be
disrupted and delayed by inclement weather. Analysis of production pro-
jections indicates that about 40 additional permanent market centers would
be required over the project period to ensure that all of the tobacco crop
would be classified and stored in satisfactory market facilities. Accord-
ingly, provision is made under the project for the construction of 40 centers.
Each of these centers would have an annual throughput of at least 300,000 kg.
The size and range in area are from 540 m2 to 720 m2. The location of market
centers would be according to marketing master plans for each tobacco pro-
ducing region, drawn up by TAT. The master plans would be submitted to the
Association for comment by December 31, 1978, and each annual construction
program would be provided to the Association for information not later than
January 31 of the calendar year in which construction would take place
(Section 2.07(a) and (b) of the draft Project Agreement).
36.       Transport and Maintenance.  The project would provide for improved
transport of tobacco from the villages to market centers, from market centers
to the processing factories and, in the case of the Songea factory, from the
factory to Makumbako, the railhead for the port of Dar-es-Salaam. Reduction
of delays in tobacco transport would minimize the risk of deterioration of
tobacco quality, and would, in addition, enable the acceleration of payment
to the farmer. The additional transport facilities would also improve the
delivery of tobacco inputs to the villages. While the tractors and trucks
provided under the project would mostly be utilized for the transportation
of tobacco and tobacco inputs, TAT presently provides vehicle hire services
on a subsidized basis and it would be in a position to continue to provide
vehicles for hire during slack periods.   After  June  30., 1979, TAT
would provide transport services on an unsubsidized basis; a
list of TAT hire charges would be submitted to the Association by
April 30, 1979, and a revised list updating the charges to reflect cost



- 15 -
changes would be prepared periodically and submitted to the Association
(Section 2.08(a) and (b) of the draft Project Agreement). Transport
facilities for TAT regional staff are inadequate, particularly 'i the
fire-cured tobacco producing areas. This severely limits the ab-lity
of TAT management to exercise effective control and supervision, and
makes it difficult for tobacco classifiers to establish and maintain
a regular marketing schedule. The project would provide for the pur-
chase of 45 four-wheel drive vehicles and 100 90-cc motorcycles to
address this problem.
37.       In order to operate its transport fleet efficiently, TAT needs
the capability to carry out day-to-day servicing, repairs, preventive
maintenance and vehicle overhauls. The project would provide for the
construction of a new workshop in Songea, mobile workshops for the main
tobacco regions, and for the improvement of existing workshops through the
purchase of additional machinery and hand tools. Assurances were given that
TAT would operate, maintain, repair and replace all vehicles financed under
the credit in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices (Section 3.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
38.       Improvements to the Songea factory; Construction of Warehouses
at Itigi and Makumbako; Completion of Storage at Morogoro. While no accept-
able master plan is presently available for the development of the Songea
factory, additional storage facilities are required for both wet-leaf and
processed tobacco in order to handle the projected throughput of tobacco
there. Facilities for storage of packing materials are also required. The
project would therefore provide for the financing of consultants to carry out
an accurate site survey and draw up a detailed master plan for the development
of the factory. This master plan would be submitted to the Association for
review and approval (Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement). Once an
acceptable master plan has been drawn up, the project would provide for the
design and coestruction of about 3,600 m2 of additional wet-leaf storage, and
about 4,300 m of additional dry-leaf storage and packing materials storage.
39.       The proposed project would facilitate the movement of flue-cured
tobacco from the Chunya area to Morogoro for processing through the construction
of storage warehouses at the Itigi railhead. It would also facilitate the
transport of tobacco from Songea to Dar-es-Salaam for export by providing
for the construction of warehouse facilities at the Makumbako railhead.
Analysis indicates that rail transport is a more efficient transport solution
than the present practice of road shipment from Songea to Dar-es-Salaam. The
project would finance the design and construction of about 2,600 m2 of storage
and 300 m2 of office space at each site, together with ancillary facilities.
In the case of Itigi, this would include a railway siding, while at Makumbako
the railway siding will be constructed jointly by the Government and the
Tanzania-Zambia Railway as part of their long-range development program.
Assurances were given that the expected completion date of the Makumbako
siding would coincide with the completion of the TAT warehouse there (Section
3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 16 -
40.       Funds were provided under the Tobacco Process ing Project (Credit
No. 658-TA) for the construction of a total of 10,700 m of tobacco storage
at the Morogoro flue-cured tobacco processing factory. However, this
has proved to be inadequate primarily as a result of the more rapid
deterioration than anticipated in the existing temporary storage and
the fact that the new processing equipment will take up more space than
expected.  Therefore, approximately 11,000 m2 of additional storage would
be constructed under this project.
41.       Technical Assistance.  In order to strengthen TAT's ability to
implement the project, funds would be provided for the employment of the
following: a Building Engineer, eight additional Building Supervisors, a
Transport Officer, a Financial Systems Development Accountant, five Regional
Accountants and a Procurement Officer. In addition to the use of consultants
for the preparation of the Songea factory master plan, and to draw up designs
for the grading/baling centers, market centers and storage facilities, the
project would provide for the employment of consultants to design a complete
and appropriate financial and management accounting system for TAT, and
assist TAT in the implementation of the system (Schedule 2, Part F of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
42.       The total cost of the project would be US$20.7million (TSh 171.8
million), including about US$0.2 million (TSh 2.0 million) of taxes and
duties. The foreign exchange component would amount to US$9.7 million,
or 47percent of total costs. Details of project costs are included in the
credit and project summary. The proposed IDA credit of US$14.0 million
would finance about 68 percent of total project costs net of taxes and
duties--all the foreign exchange costs and 40 percent (US$4.3 million) of
local costs. Local cost financing is justified on country grounds (para.
9). The Government would provide the remaining US$ 6.7million (US$6.5
million net of taxes and duties), and would bear the foreign exchange risk.
IDA and Government funds for bulking bags (US$0.8 million including contin-
gencies) and for the construction of grading/baling centers (US$3.2 million
including contingencies) would be relent to TRDB for 20 years including
5 years of grace at an annual interest rate of 4 percent (Section 3.01(c)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).  TRDB would onlend the funds
for bulking bags as seasonal credit at 8.5 percent per annum. It would
onlend the funds for grading/baling centers to villages at an annual interest
rate of 8.5 percent for 8 years including one year grace in the case of
flue-cured tobacco producing villages and for 12 years including one year
grace for fire-cured tobacco producing villages (Section 3.01(d) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). TRDBts interest spread was calculated
to cover its administrative costs'and risks and allow some build-up in its
capital base. The villages would levy a cess on tobacco sold in order to
repay loans for the grading/baling centers and cover maintenance costs.
43.       Funds provided to TAT under the project would be passed on partly
as equity and partly as loan. An amount of US$12.5 million, made up of



- 17 -
US$9.0 million in IDA funds and US$3.5 million in Government funds, would be
provided to TAT as equity to finance construction, equipment for marketing
centers and venicle maintenance, consultant services, and vehicles for exten-
sion services. The remainder of credit and Government funds (US$4.2 million)
to be provided to TAT would be lent by the Government to TAT for a period of
10 years including 5 years of grace at an annual interest rate of 10 percent,the
current borrowing rate for parastatals (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). Execution of the Project Agreement and two subsidiary
loan agreements (between the Government and TRDB and between the Government and
TAT) would be conditions of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(b)-(d) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
44.       Vehicles, spare parts, equipment and bulking bags financed under
the project would be bulked as far as possible and procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines
(Schedule 3, Part A of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In the
evaluation of bids, qualified domestic manufacturers would be awarded a pre-
ference of 15 percent or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. Pro-
curement of goods and equipment which could not be bulked in packages of
US$100,000 equivalent or more would be in accordance with the Borrower's com-
petitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Association (Schedule 3,
Part B of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Materials to be used in
the construction of village grading and baling centers(which would be con-
structed on a self-help basis) would be procured by TAT on the basis of
local competitive bidding, to ensure maximum use of locally available materials
(Schedule 3, Part B of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Civil works
contracts for the construction of market centers and storage facilities would
be too small and scattered to attract international interest. Procurement
would therefore be by contracts awarded following locally advertised competitive
bidding, but foreign firms would be entitled to compete (Schedule 3, Part B
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The cost of consultant services
under the project is estimated to be about US$325,000 and all consultants
would be hired on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (Section
2.02(d) of the draft Project Agreement).
45.       Disbursements from the credit would be on the basis of 100 percent
of the incremental annual cost of bulking bags; 60 percent of amounts dis-
bursed on TRDB loans for village grading/baling centers; 57 percent of the
total cost of all other buildings; 100 percent of the foreign expenditures
and 85 percent of the local expenditures on vehicles, equipment and materials;
and 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures
on technical assistance and consultants (Schedule 1 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Retroactive financing up to an amount of US$200,000 is
recommended for expenditures incurred after February 1, 1978 for certain high
priority consultant services and for procurement of vehicles and equipment
needed early in the life of the project (Schedule 1, para. 4(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
Project Implementation
46.       TAT would have overall responsibility for implementation of the
project. TRDB would have specific responsibility for the administration of
seasonal credit for bulking bags and of long-term credit for the construction
of grading/baling centers; it would be able to handle these responsibilities
without direct assistance under the project.  In view of the size of the
building components in this project it is critical that thorough reviews be
made of all proposed building designs and contracts. Therefore, appointment
by TAT of a suitably qualified Building Engineer would be a condition of
project effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The appointment of a Transport Officer would be a condition of disbursement
of credit funds for vehicles financed under the project (Schedule 1, para. 4(b)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). TAT's Finance Department would be
strengthened by the recruitment, prior to April 1, 1979, of a Financial Systems
Development Accountant and five Regional Accountants, all likely to be inter-
nationally recruited (Section 2.02(c) of the draft Project Agreement). In
addition, TAT would agree to retain a suitable Financial Manager throughout
the period of project disbursements (Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agree-
ment). The above-mentioned posts would remain filled during the period of
credit disbursement and the Association would be consulted on the qualifications
and experience of the Government's candidates for the Building Engineer,
Transport Officer and various Accountant positions (Section 2.02(a), (b) and
(c) of the draft Project Agreement).
Accounts, Auditing, Monitoring and Reporting
47.       Separate accounts relating to expenditures would be kept by TRDB
and by TAT (Section 3.05(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement and
Section 4.01(b) of the draft Project Agreement). Accounts maintained by
TRDB and TAT would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association within six months of the end of each financial year (Section
3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 4.02 of the
draft Project Agreement). At present, TRDB accounts are up-to-date. While
TAT accounts are in arrears, this situation is expected to improve as a
result of the employment by TAT of consultants to desigr. improved financial
procedures (para. 41).
48.       Detailed quarterly progress reports of physical progress anid the
use of funds under the project would be prepared by the Development and
Planning Department Head (with some input from TRDB) for the General Manager
and Board of TAT.  In addition, during the course of the project, TAT would
engage the services of the Economic Research P,ureau (ERB) of the University
of Dar-es-Salaam to assistin the monitoring and evaluation of the project.
ERB would attempt to assess the impact of the various project components
on marketed production and at the end of each crop year  would. provide T-T



- 19 -
and the Association with a summary report of its findings. At the end of
the disbursement period, ERB would prepare a detailed final report. In
addition, within three months after project completion, TAT would prepare
and submit to the Association a project completion teport (Sectio.i 2.11(d)
of the draft Project Agreement).
Markets and Prices
49.       Out of the total Tanzanian production of tobacco (18.3 million kg
in 1976/77) the domestic market takes around 3.5 million kg annually. The
remainder is exported, mainly to the United Kingdom and other European
Economic Community countries. Tanzania is well established in the U.K.
market where it receives a duty preference. Export potential is also growing
in other EEC countries, where Tanzania's Associate status gives it duty
preferences. Overall, the outlook for Tanzanian flue-cured tobacco exports
is good. Increased Tanzanian flue-cured exports are unlikely to affect inter-
national prices, as total Tanzanian flue-cured exports are only about 1 percent
of total world exports. The world market price for flue-cured tobacco is
expected to increase in real terms at a rate of about 2 percent per annum
until 1985. For fire-cured tobacco, the outlook is less favorable, since
Tanzanian production is already about 7 percent of world production, and the
share of fire-cured tobacco in total world consumption is steadily declining.
However, in view of the continuing decline in fire-cured tobacco production
in developed countries, Tanzania is not expected to encounter market
constraints to increased production of fire-cured tobacco. The less favor-
able market situation for fire-cured tobacco is reflected in a projected
export price that remains constant in real terms.
Projects Benefits and Financial Results
50.       The main benefits of the project would be an increase in the
volume of marketed tobacco production as a result of reduction in the level
of physical losses of tobacco now incurred during handling and storage; an
increase in the quality (and hence in the average sales values) of the
marketed tobacco crop as a result of a reduction in the degree of deterio-
ration of tobacco during handling, marketing and storage; and reduction in
the cost of transporting tobacco and tobacco inputs as a result of the
greater use of rail transport that would be made possible by the construction
of the storage warehouses at Itigi and Makumbako. In addition, the provision
under the project of additional marketing, transport and storage facilities
would enable a more even flow of tobacco through the marketing system, and
improved delivery of tobacco inputs. There should also be an improvement
in the quality of TAT marketing and extension services, as a result of the
improved transport for TAT field staff. The quantifiable benefits from
the project (which exclude the last two benefits, for which no attempt at
quantification is made) in 1987/88 would be incremental marketed tobacco
production of 3.3 million kg of flue-cured tobacco, and 1.3 kg of fire-
cured tobacco (equal to, respectively,10 percent and 13 percent of the
'without project' marketed crop), and an increase in average crop value of
3.8 percent for flue-cured tobacco, and 4.8 percent for fire-cured tobacco.



- 20 -
The benefits of the project would accrue partly to tobacco growers, most of
whom have per capita incomes below the absolute poverty level for Tanzania,
through higher levels of marketed production and crop value, and partly to
TAT, as a result of reduced handling losses and lower transport costs.  TATts
resultant increased profits could be appropriated by Government for investment
elsewhere, or could be passed on to tobacco growers in the form of increased
producer prices or further investment in the provision of services to tobacco
growers. This issue will be addressed in the context of the Bank's study of
agricultural parastatals, the pilot stage of which is expected to begin
within the next twelve months.
51.       The project would have a positive effect on TAT's cash flow over
the period 1979/80 to 1982/83, but there would be a negative outflow during
the period 1983/84 to 1988/89, when TAT is repaying the Government loan. The
effects on TAT's cash flow become increasingly positive after 1988/89. In
order to improve TAT's financial position, the bulk of funds provided to TAT
under the project (about 80 percent) would be passed on as equity (para. 43).
In additon, Government would provide funds to cover the costs of operation
of TATts extension services, and would take all steps necessary to enable
TAT to reduce its overdraft and maintain overdraft facilities at reasonable
levels (Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
52.       The economic rate of return is estimated to be 26 percent for the
flue-cured tobacco component, the cost of which is US$11.6 million; and 22
percent for the fire-cured tobacco component, the cost of which is US$7.4
million. The economic rate of return for the entire project (including
technical assistance costs) of 24 percent is fairly robust with respect to
changes in benefits and costs. A 10 percent reduction in benefits or increase
in costs would reduce the rate of return to about 20 percent, and both these
events occurring simultaneously would result in a rate of return of about 15
percent. There are expected to be no negative environmental effects from this
project.
53.       A major risk of the project is that implementation would proceed
at a slower rate than anticipated, as a result of institutional deficiencies
within TAT or if villages were not able to adjere to the construction
schedules for completion of grading/baling centers. Our concerns in this
area have been addressed by the inclusion of appropriate technical assistance
to TAT to address technical manpower shortages and enable it to assist the
villages during procurement of materials and construction.  A second potential
risk is the possible spread of virus bushy top disease in tobacco growing
areas of Tanzania. The spread of this disease can be limited by the prompt
destruction of all tobacco plant residues but this is not being done pre-
sently (primarily because the incidence of this disease has been limited).
Therefore TAT would mount a campaign directed at ensuring that farmers carry
out the destruction of crop residues, and after July 31, 1980, no seasonal
or medium-term credit for tobacco production would be extended by TRDB to
villages with an unsatisfactory standard of crop hygiene (Section 3.02 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement, and Section 2.05 of the draft Project
Agreement).



- 21 -
54.       Since tobacco production is well established, and since invest-
ment is related to production, there is little risk that project investments
would be underutilized. The projected level of production increases on which
the analysis of the project is based is considered within Tanzania to be
very conservative and is based on a slower rate of expansion than has been
achieved over the last decade. In view of this we feel the project is fully
justified.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and TAT and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
56.       Features of the Credit and Project Agreements of particular interest
are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. Condi-
tions of effectiveness include: (i) conclusion of subsidiary loan agreements
between the Borrower and each of TAT and TRDB (Section 5.01(c) and (d) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement); and (ii) appointment by TAT of a
Building Engineer (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
A condition of disbursement for vehicles would be the appointment by TAT
of a Transportation Officer (Schedule 1, para 4(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 1, 1978



- 22 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
TANZANIA            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 --
TANZANIA                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      945.1                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     508.3                        1960      1970   ESTIMATE           KENYA       KOREA REP. OF  MALAYSIA**
__ __  __ __ __  __ _ -  _--         --  - -- -   -___
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      60.0*/a 100.0*/a 180.0*/a               140.0*     280.0*      440.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            9.6/a    12.9/a   15.1/a                11.2        32.2        10.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       10.0       14.0       16.0               19.0       327.0        33.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        20.0       26.0      8n.0               113.0      1371.0       185.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         51.5       50.5       47.0               49.0        35.0        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          27.1       23.0       20.1               17.0        11.4        12.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       190.0   160-165/b        ..                 ..          ..        40.8/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       36.7       41.6  -   44.5                49.1        65.0        56.7 -
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..        3.2       3.2                 3.4         2.6         2.6/a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.3/a      3,0/a     2.7/a               3.1         2.3         2.9
URBAN                                 5.0        5.6      7.5/b                6.3         6.4         3.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           4.6        5.5/b    7.3                  9.9        41.2        26.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       42.5/am  44.4 /b       ..                48.4        42.1       44.7/a
15 TO 64 YEARS                       5S.5/a,b 53.0/b         ..               48.0        54.5       52.1 /a
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.0/a,b  2.6/p         *-                3.6         3.4            /a
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8 /ab  n.9/b                           1.1         0.8         0.9/a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1 /b >   t*-/a                                     1.4         1.6/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..         ..         ..               66.1     4424.7       222.2 /a
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..         ..                 ..        42.0         a. 0/a
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         4900.0/d 5600.0/ab6300.0/c               5100.0/b  10200.0       3600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         96.0 /    91.0 /ab  83.1                 90.0       50-.4/a    49.5
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            ..                  16-0 /a d*--                    4.5 -       7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..       33.5         ..               20.2/c      17.1        28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..       63.3         *-               52.6/C      44.5        56.0
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        2.3         ..                3.9/a       7.1        3.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                        7*-                          11 7/7      177        11.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..        ..         ..                 ..        29.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..         ..                 ..         2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            21750.Oae 21570.0/a  20760.0/a,e          7830.0/d   2110.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        9240.jaef 4890.0oa  3180.0 /a            1470.0/a   2170.0/b         .-
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           570 7/ae 700.0/a        *-  -           770.0-   1900.0         270:0/a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         69.0     88.0        ,86.0              101.0       103.0       110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              42.0       43.0      47.1                71.0        65.0       49:0/b
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         22.0/j    23.0       20.0                29.0        19.0       20.0/b
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..        ..         ..                1.9          ..         4.4
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       24.0       35.0      57.0                64.0       104.0        89.0 La
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      2.0        3.0        3.0                9.0 /e    41.0         34.0 /a
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0       13.0      13.0                13.0        12.0        13.0 /a
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     23.0         ..        ..                 2.0 /e    16.0          3.0 /a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                17.0         ..       49'0/c             30.0        87.0        55.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                1.8 /h      ..         ..                  ..        2.7         2.3/a
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT                    -
PIPED WATER (%)                                 30.0/b,d                                  80.0 /c    65.0/a,C
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                 /                                            _ .  8
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..         ..         ..                 ..        50.0        43-0/a.
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
10 ELECTRICITY (X)                     ..         ..         ..                  ..       30.0        30.0/a
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           2.0      11.0       16.0               48.0       126.0        41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0       3 0        3 0                9.0         2.0        27.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            16.0/a    31.0/a    43:0/a               68.0      307.0       382.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.1/e     0.1        0.1                 0.5         3.5        4.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



-   23   -                                                   A1NEX I
NOTES
Unles otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971 and for the Moat Recent Estimate betueso
1973 and 1976.
G GNP per capita data are based on World Bank Atris  nathodalogy (1974-76 baaia).
**  Malaysia haa been selected as an objective noprtry becauae its popolation is tomperable in gize and its econ_              c develapoent is several steps
ahead of T-nania.
TANZANIA             1960    /a  Mainland Tansasia;    lb  1957, African population only;    Ic  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total
labor force;    /d  1963;    /!  1962;    /f  Registered, net a11 practicing in the country;    /I  1961-63;
/h 1958, Zaneibat only.
1970    /a  Mainland Taneanis;    1k  1967;   /  1965;    /d  Ac percentage of urban hooseholds.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /.  Mainland Tansania;    lb  1967-73;    /c  1972;    /d  Urban;    /e  Including assistant medical
officers.
KENYA                1970    /a  Ratio of popolation ander 15 and 65 and over to labsr force age 15-59 years;    /b  Labor force age 15-59 yearn;
/c  Urban;    /d  Regitered, not a11 practicing in the. contry;    /.  Total aecondary icclodee teacher training
at the third level.
KOREA REP: OF        1970    /-  As percentage of esploynnt;          /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country;    /c  Water piped inside.
MALAYSIA             1970   /I  West Msalayis;    /b  Registered appliceets for woek;    /c  1964-66;    /d  Piped ut-er inside only.
R12, April 7, 1978
DKPNUITTONI OP SOCLAL TNIDCATORS
L.d Arms tthou ko2)                                                                        Ponplati oner sues ngerson - P.oplctloc divided by  tnaber of practiciog
Total - Total trf-ce see- rpricing lend  rea and ialad wies-                                    e sod f-1 greduste mnoree,  teteed' or "certified" norsos.   and
gricn   - Moot ecnt estimate of egricoltural ares used t_pararily or perta-                    asillery porersasl with training or ompeciesce
neely far crops, pasture,   rket & kitchen garden  or to lie fall1.                      PeoPultion per boesitel bed - Population divided by namber of hospttal beds
evailebl  en Publi  and private general and specislised hbspital and
GNP par capita (US$) - GNP par c-pita estimates at current  arket pricea,                    rahabilitatin centers; secludes surelng boses *ed establiehnentc for
easiulated by  ama  c-moerzie  -thod a world Bank Atlae (1973-75 baei)                     c utodial ed prevtnive cars.
1960; 1970 aed 1975 data.                                                                Par s.ites snee, of calonosa ft nf  esirracit) - topocad   r- energy
equivalnt of eat ftod euppliec available in coustry per capita per day;
Pop.tion  Id vi t_  l St_tisti..                                                             available sapplice comprise dussctic prodoction, ipoetr  les  espoert, sod
Pepelation (mid-year million)   A  of July firct:  if not available, aoer*se                 cbhags  in ctonk; net Supplies eluds sniml feed, scads,                    -duneiiea,acrd
of two end-yaar stimateo; 1'60, 1970 and 1975 dat.                                         in food proceasing  nd Iq ea  in distribution; requiresnents oars ctitsatod
by PAO based on physiologic-l medc for sosal activity and heasth cansid-
P2MnlatiaS dan-ity - oner euare he - Rid-year population par cqvaee kilsemtr                  cing   ,ssiromentel t_perature, bsdy  eightb, age and .e  diatrib-sioa af
(I   h     _ccarn) of toaal esa.                                                          ppslatin, end allseing 101 for wate at boosabsid level .n  o
Popnlatims densit - per *oore le of aSritc  lIsd - Cormpttd as sbone for                   Per seelt sanpely of  -r tein (ar   ear d-yS - Protein nonceat of pet capita
agriseltoral land mly.                                                                     not *upply sf food pee day; e   supply of food is defined as above; requir-
sents for .11 neetcris astiblished by USDA Economic Research Seevites
Vitnl snatiatice                                                                             provide for a minisem allssnca  of 60 gras of total prouis par day, and
Crude birth rate par thoosend. vrate - Annual live births per thousnd of                     20 gra_ of animl and pulse prtei, of which 10 gren   should be -idal
eld-yaer popul-tion; tam-year -rithitic averaes  nding in 1960  nd 1970                   ptatin; these Stnndard  ar loos  than ehose of 75 gr-a  of total protein
aud five-year  verage ending in 1975 for  ost resent eteiet.                               and 23 grea  of -aiml protein as aS average for the  orld, proposed by FAl
Crude death rate per thousand. average - Anmaul deaths per thousand of mid-year              in the Third acrld Food Survey.
po.palation; tn-y.-r arithl-tii  oversees  nding in 1960 and 1970 and fi_-               Per casit. protein sanel  from enil and  uile - Protnie supply of food
pear averge ending in 1975 for -et renent  stmate.                                         derived fron  n_Ii  end p         tlice in gram  pr day.
infant noesality rate (/thou) - Annual deaths Of infants under an year of age              Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Aonnoal death  per thboeand in age grep 1-4
per thousand lie births.                                                                   pear, t  chiLdren in thia age grcop; suggeatad as aS indicator of
Life esctcisce nt birth (vye) - Average  srbr of years of life rosining at                     loutrition,
birth; uually five-year averges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countri .                                                                            aducntion
irosa  -rerdo7rrio  ersI  - uver.Sa   -bshr of live daughters a oa   ill hear              Adincted earolsmat ratio  S-eMer  scol-Erlmn   f .11 ages on per-
to her normal reproductis period if he esperisue;s preen1t  gi-tpcifi                               f pniary sh            ppuati; includns children cged 6-I1 ysar-
fertility rtets; ususlly five-ye-r averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                  bun adjusted fer different lSugthe of primary edoc.tion; for countries wvtt
for developing coustries                                                                   universal  dcation, enrollnt nay ..co.d 1070 deco sees pupils ire balr
Population grouch rate (%) - total - Cpoaud annual gros,th rates of mid-yper                 on  hoev  the official scheel mg.
Population for 1950-60  1960-70 and 1970-753                                             hdiit d nrollnem  ratio - eaondary achool - Cosputed as bove; secoudsry
Po.plation growth rats C.) - urban - Cospated ISe greeth rate of total                       edunatiom  requires at least four years of approvd primary instruction
population; different definitions of urban areas my affect comparability of                provides geneeal, voeetional or teether traiing intruction  foe pupils
data amng coantrie.                                                                        of 12 to 17 years of age; cnrreapondne courses are generally e. luded.
Urban popultion f7t of total) - RAtic of urban to total population; different              Years of adholine provided (first end szcod lev ls) - Total year  of
defioltiuss of orb n  -ress may sffst co,pa-rbility of datn  -omg councri s.               enbosong; at secenday lvel, vocetia l instruction   y be partially or
cospletely aeladed.
AR structure (,ercsnt) - Children (0-l4 years),  orking-ags  (15-64 pears)                 Vo-c ioni esarollnnt ( of secondary) - Eocatioal ins-i-utions inccIde
and retired  (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year population.                     techeicl, industrial or other program  which operate independetly o
Ane denendeucy ratio - Ratio of population ouder 15 and 65 and over to those                 departmts of secondary inRtinutison                             n        r
ofae -i hogh 64.                                                                  Adaln lcerany rate      - Litcee adults fable to read and write) as per-
Efononic depeodenvy rtio - R-tio of population under 15 and 65 nd or to                     deutge   s f  tota  adu1t popultion agyd 15 years and over.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 yeara.
Fanily elsecime - anneetors fcauslative. thou) - Cuu lative nunber of .n..ptors             gousing
of hie ih-ronrrol denica andar auspices of national faily pltannisg prgres               Perona e  room (urban) - Average goober Of per-ons per e-  it occupied
Since ilncetin.-                                                                           conventinsal dwellings in  urban areas; dwellings *eclode con-peranent
Familyelnia-ues( of marre   me)-Pretgso   arnd    anoatrutrs.eand un_coaisd parts.
child-bearing age (15-4 yeses) who use birth-control doites to 1  l married              O.Unied dwellings without ead water f) - Occupied convctiocsl duelliogs
women in    e age Sroup.                                                                    in urban and rural  reas wiebsut inside or outside piped rater facilities
e           s p rCeneag1 of all occpiid dwellings
Ttota lab   fenes (thousand)  E foonina1y active peons, including a d                       sicfs eo electricity in liis as per n.t of totl dwllings ino rba- Snd
focsad onaPIon  batocluding houassivsa, Students, Sue..; definitiona                    rural areas..
in varioos coontries s   not coPmprab.                                                   nRiesi dwellings connected te  1c-triciti CT) - ionpotnd as sbove for rural
abrfrein saiui.e  t              giotorI labor force (in farming, frsy,                dliusoly.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of tote labor force.
UOnelayed ft of labor fume) - inaployed are  osmally defined as persons ehb                 Consooption
are able  nd willing c  oaks a Job, out of a jb on a givan day  reaned out                                  pardio rannivors (pe thou poe) - All typsa of receivers for radio broadct
of a job, ad  maaking work for a specified ninisatr period not sceediug one               to general public per thousand of population; scludne oslic.eed receier
usko; nay not bh  comparable between countries doe to different defdnitfona                 in countries Sod in yeara when regictratio    of radio sets ws in eff-et
of ane-played and sourre of data, *-., eploy-nt ofice statistics, caple                     data toe recent years nay not be compareblo Sirc  moat countries abolished
suroeya, compulsory aneapleyelent insorance.                                                liosening.
Psgorcars (see tho pa)        S Pseger core c-peise motor cacaoesting
Inrc  idistbributio  - Per-nctgo Of private inc  e (both in  -sh and hind)                  lees  ta   ni5c Person   secude  ambulanc    hearses  od Inilitiry
enr vdb  richest 5% , richest 20%, poorest 207%, and poorest 40% of hono-veils
hold..                                                                                    Electricity (bob/yr per caps - Ano.al ces-omption of ioduetrial  comj erciaI
public and privae   s .1teliciy in kilowatt hours Per- capita, ge..eroily
Dictribucion of land owerhip - Percetages of land namd by weelthiest 10%                      base.d on Production dat, without sIIoance foe losses in grids but allow-
end poorest I0  of land oSners.                                                             lg for imports and seporta   of e1ectricity.
Newsprint (ks/r ner use) - Per capito annual consonpeboc in kilogroma
PoPnlthisod Nutr vitaionon - Population divided by nuaber of practic                          estimated free domestic production plus nef impports of uesprift.
Ppulation  e ehyifei.s - Population divided by o       r of practicing
physfician   qaslified free a medical school at  nive-ity level.



24 -                                                    ANNEX 1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~yn0' ._*"*                                                                    ,       1, ,4 ".
DO 's'Lif"             flk          "           m           I.                      336)         t0li                   1907-       19115       org
w N   *t mg  974-76 5 s)
3.  :                                           234.2  t 44,4.          212.2        2727.1      NM.1        524 .9      313.1       4n17.2      532.9                      5.1         32        3
L  t1u. gm T*     m  of 1t4.  (?.T)                54.9      -48.I         21.1       3".          23.0        -8.1       -42.U      .101.1       -1061.1        .                                  31
5. _..  .o         g."                           S3.1        Woa         2M.&        5046.6      21009.1      018.?      2340.0      4001.1       51051.8       4.8         5.3         3.0         %:*
4.  l.,,,                                         M1.1        51.1        002.1        M.5        740.7       0.?         0)7.5       040.4       1190.2        3.6         4.0          L.s        n'3
S.  bowl  . w13                                   410.        107.9       5)7.7       1.4         574.        1.7 t        0. 83 I.               1043.1        0.5         3.0         4.         19.
0.   .   .   n -T                 144.0                       419.2       107.5       002.5       *9.5    *   4.S         318.0       0o.o         873.0       4 .         -4.4         3.I        10.
7.  b.m. Cl     Tr .dJ...:.d                      50.2        211.0       114.5        $1.1       163.3       222.2       230.7       310.0       315.3          .           *
a. s8.  C@0p_t_                                  1213.0      1174.1      25.1        5311.4,     243.        23644       2323.6      3421.4       42.1          3.7         4.3         4-.        JU*
9.       most                                     *05.3       519.0       550. 5* 4.4             4010        434.8       677.6      8*3.3        1161.0      -.6           5.4 8.                 22.2
I.   Missal1 le.tals                               193.3       560.4       310.9        M.         4, *n        14.0       103.9       444.6        940.0      -4.0          1.0         3.1        17.8
it. _a e84                                       SWJ           I:,'        268.23      461.1       4115.       &32-:       413.1       13.5        8447         .0.7        -3           4.9        18.S
Lt.  Walt *avasltF Vs                               ,           3         SmZ,        33,@ 014    ,11.         32.3       411710      SSWI       1     ,4.
B.                                             *~p~   aS 1074-  1
1.  moot"                                          17.2          J   U       .8        14.         38.         3.            9s 1.1    10.5        2.           *.0         7.7          .
0. hPI54.sw.                                       xi          440.21      4.0:        56.2         .0-        378         5713,       34.3,       5.4          2.A         3.32.
3. 8.0.1..                                        40.0         44.0       4.           04.71       4.1         45.2        45.         44.2        46.5 U.4                 5.0         s.s
C.  2ClJ    (194.16 * 300)
!. bo_t ftrt   [.d-                               19.1         o,         US.#        137.2       139.3       133.4       135.0       177.9       St.l I                   t.5          6.4
1.  lo     h s1 ..led..                           81.5        104.9       164.7       184.4       154.1       134.3       144.         104.3      20.0           *          6.1         7.1
3.   ._    Tr*4  I.A..                            112.0       41.5        105.)      H1I.7        1.0          90.4        83.2       $0.1         614.0
4. a" 0.t1itwJ(uIs)                                04.1       to's.       3.          122.0       1L.         143.0        53u.0      214.6        301.0         *          7.3         7.6
2. 4..o.. lodwog. 54,. (736 8.a 311.88oo          ?.W         5.414       6.278
|a~~~~~~                                                   WkEII t aa
1.  3536                                            3.0         4.3         4.1         4.1
a.  aft ll .......... eseley l.o eJ~1.4           -.4          1.1    t l.7
3. A!gi. Mh l   ".1.A. 1.1   /                     3.5         U .7         .4         14.0
4.  VT&3  56,9001 1416. 5t5                        3.2         10.         1.          3.
S. Drolmol 5411.t03 kvi  436 0e *.1                             0.2        4.1          0.2
0.  Ispos.ta0p                                    24.3         31.         24.8        10.1
5.  b,,,.,em    ,                                  33.7        I1.3s       90.0        2.0
0.  8tt..t    tWOt                                  0.0       311.19        6.2         1.4
a. J
*. 144@tfte.                                                         .8
5.8 A....1.w.                                                      01t.6
5.3 34t1ry                                                            2.0
2.3 S840.380                                                          5.0
V. xurtfftx  .,601s.
1. _w.6                                           INU        1602    UXt            Sul           W          3944        319         4743
1.1 8.iw.                                         Go        134          but         1t*1i      2 sm         3161        3302       4163
0. 4reat tx"Q6i'we                                top        1431 u6                 2           270         361        2311         440
6.1 6."..1 hwale1bt01t                            I7          S))         50          7449        9          1 U121      Its1
S.          S.. 5w4 .                               I          so          7          14          95          .12         203         343
4.  n3p  eaMe                                      ..                      36          42         Su4         35          "S 4        640
J. 8ylIss Available for fta704
tt-olertot    dLew.                          ..         S          U?           I%4        452          363         84         202
G.  .wlopinat b.I"ditar.                          33i         S"          88          934        Mi"         32523       1s3         2789
1. 0.w6ll .63i3   e                               - &A,3_-W 6L                        Y60     e             aM w           1
6. Vt3.14t .*te AMbet.1
546.3.0LO.OM.                                3          070        W4          430         44           4408
3090-am,                                   .          14          834        M4          344          "A3.
..,t-6t.                                   *-          3          I44,         as 2       s55                       .
at.3o4.0.                                  ...ado of ar-t                   'Ys.tt4 2lt.m.
3 . .e..apa  C..  t@A2Lrne                                                                                                                                           a-
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~.r ..17



_ 25 _                                        ANNEX 1
,llle U S4
Wi    WA               WA            A        WI           27979    fE            I85 au       M
A.          or Im O ?A  
I. lerwi  (inn. MS)                                       45.9        440.7      *05.5       759.7       742.7       787.6      837.3      1402.9      2520.9
2.  _erta  (Intl. IW)                                      M7.0       733.5      727.9       852.3         0.5      1086.3      1213.5      20)6.1     3429.2
3. be_aa.. Iamea                                         .513.1      .532.8     .122.4        93.0       227.8       290.5      -376.2      833.7      -90.3
4.  bt facter  iiv i a                                     4.6        .10.5    .24.S         -21.1       *14.7       -21.0      -27.3       -75.3      -1438
1. b latereat ay.ata a ekib                           .)          .16.1      .-1.6       .1.1        .13.7       -18.0       -22.1      -85.3      -133.8
lbet   on "abli H & LT Loam                    (4.5       (-11.1)    (..5)       (.15.1)     (-17.8)     (-20.2)    (-27.7)      (-79.1)   (-181.9)
2. sarect       ia_ nt l _                                         (          (           C          C           C           C          (          (
Macbkere Imattnc  (ot)                               (4.6        (5.6       (-m.       (_.          3 .0      -.5.0       (-3.0      (-10.0     (-10.0
4. othdl*aterervia Iamcs iNot)                         C           C          C           C          C           C           C          (           (
3. 0.14 bamfers (NBC)                                      30.1        71.0        77.9       94.9       110.4       129.4       147.9      235.8       362.5
6. salosm     O,wwmt e0 _91.8                                        .272.1      -4.1        -19.2      -158.1      -190.1     -2)5.7      -473.4      *66 9.
7. Prt"ite DIreot 1avmat                                   34.5        27.5        U.1        20.0        20.0        24.0        28.0        35.0       55.0
la1it H i LT L"ea.
6.  i.bamst. 11                                           143.1       229.9       114.5      215.3       137.2       271.6      315.3       528.2       61s.7
-. ban& CLOG                                              21tri       .1A* *ISA              -2 .3      -27.3       -28.2       -41.4       -51.0       101.l
9a. me lri.at1ea.g -                                                               312.3                 1W?         243-4       274-.1      477.2       7117.2
0thr N    S LIeaa
11.  W    wer 21ta                             .            16.2        19.9       11.6         7.2         4.7         1.2        0.8         0.0         0.0
ftwelmatie-                                   iIaf        iHu                                               2 I .14                          0 .:1
13. ftt UNOwtsum                                             23/  1SJ.7 e.                               o. 4 .  94.4    Vo.  :a 
IA. M  ef DV   sevaa  5/                                    ".5         26.6       24.3       -24.4        .9.0      .79.0       -20.)         0.0         0.0
US. best-tam  0PLtLR  bTacactlmoa                           24.1         0.0      .18.9         0.0         e.0         0          0.6         0.0         0.0
is. in$tal beustiea. saL.                                  .31A        -514.0     -StJ.         0.0         0.     0         0. 0        0. 0        0.0 o.e
17. Oise  In beve C-  ieana)                                64.6        26.7       4K.2      .185.6      .54.4       -34.3       -21.2       -33.5       .58.6
5.  C"N AeD LOAINS  0UOUThN
. OUi.jI 4a                                              S3.6         187.9       123.7
S.  uta  PAIL* H   LIT tLo                                240.        12.         1851.0
2.1  u.D                                               ".          30.0        37.0
2.2 1V                                                 41.2        10.0        52.0
3.3   Ctbo VaItilterel                                  7.1       tU.0         S.*
2.4  0reeanm                                          127.1        94.)        77.3
el ebte  ceatrally p1mad e_ mmif                76.5         3.4
2.5  bppelaa                                               
2.6  isc  laltitute.                                                 *         11.7
2.7 .  .d
.3  ui. Lease. a.&.i.                                    --.
3. oS. U & LT tome (aAn av slabl                            5.6         3.9        6.0
1. ote  glant o   Total C_lmsts                            63.5        6 .6       71.3
1. Aerag, later*22 (largest)                                2.2         3.5        3.3
3. A"ve.    stVetrt  (Years)                               32          43         38
U*lec"s Linangig of pteeagged balasce of pamw_ts 4defit (1377.1990) e* 502  a/Ot IDA tagna
bls._,,t an rep *"r-xt elSank loua for SAC projet of %&Le  Se"Sa    Shave is a Notiol 1*0 Par  t-
eet of "Drovdfta  .a  'Sea"Ont by  rheae""'.
alud. CgA eswjtari*., People'. Ralubls of 0gIeA. UseS Ursa. beatlast 3.p1t. of Vtiagm.
lapuceete a etiem40 pageant of c atb    for .AC pveejeas.
CMS-A



- 26   -
DCIIS UD CREINOATeIiNESS S/
1974        19 75       1976
A. JlUth AND LONG TERH DET  (Disbursed Only)
1. Total Debt Outstrading (DOD: Sod of Parled)/                   67.7        923.7      1030.7
2.  Including Undisbursed                                        125.4       135.6        1544.6
3.  Plwlie Debt Service                                            23.5        26.5        27;8
1.  Interest                                                 8.6         11.2        12.5
4. Other N & IT Dobt Service 2/                                     8.1         8.2         12.4
5. DC1Y DURDe4 V
1. Debt Service Ratio                                               6.6         7.5         6.7
2. Debt Service/CDP                                                 1.4         1.4          1.5
3.  Public Debt service/Cover ent laveom,                           4.5         6.5          7.6
C. ,
1.  Intorest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                 2.1         1.9         1.8
2. Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                     4.9         4.0          3.9
0. D2PENMCY PT!OS FOR N I LT DEST 1/
1.  Groee Disburseeant/Imports (iocl. NPS)                        20.7        31.5         17.6
2.  let Tranafer/Amports (imcl. NES)                               16.3        22.2         10.5
3. Net Transfer/Grose Disburseeomts                                8.          89.6         83.5
2.   2OSUIE 1/
1.  ImBD Disbursemente/Cross Tetal DiLbusemeta                     10.3        21.0        14.7
2. lank Group Disburseentr/Cross Total Dlsbureca_ta                14.0        28.1        36.8
3.  I5ItD DOD/Total DOD                                            12.9        13.3        15.3
4. Sank Croup DOD/Total DOD                                        22.0        24.0        25.9
S.  l*DS  Debt Service/Total Debt Service                          20.9        26.2        32.3
6.  Ank Croup Debt Service/Total Dcbt Service                     23.1         28.2        34.7
Outstandine Dec. 31. 1976
Axoit       Percent
(US * million)
V. XXTZL PE  (Diabursed oely)
-.  153                                                                       90.1         9.9
2.  lank Croup                                                                106.9         11.9
3. Other ?%mltilaterIl                                                         18.1         2.0
4.  Gverents                                                                   55.6         71.8
of which Centrally Planned Economies  /                                 292.5        32.0
5.  Suppliers                                                                  22.2         2.4
*. FInancial intitutions                                                        8.2         0.9
7. lads                                                                         3.4         0.4
S.   ublic Debt n.e.L.                                                          7.1         0.8
9. Total Public N & LT Debt                                                   913.6       100.0
10. Other M & LT Debt I/                                                       116.9        12.8
11. Total lublic Debt (inel. IUdisbureed)                                     1414.0       154.7
12.  Total N & IT Debt (intcl. Undisbursed) 1/                                1544. 6      169.0
I Includes a notional 40 percent share of loans  to tbe LIC'
RapreseUts a notional 40 percent sbare of debt service an lons to the EtC.
Inciudes OMXA countries. Peoples Republic of China. North torga. Socialist Republic of Vietnamt
LUU. CPI-A
January 5. 1976



- 27 -                        ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1978
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.        Year    Borrower            Purpose                     Bank!/ TW   IDA1/ Undisbursed
Four loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                      70.2         90.8
586-TA     1969    Tanzania    Roads                                7.0                  1.4
287-TA     1972    Tanzania    Smallholder Tea                                 10.8      2.0
371-TA     1973    Tanzania    Education                                       10.3      4.6
382-TA 2/  1973    Tanzania    Livestock                                       18.5      6.2
454-TA     1974    Tanzania    Cotton                                          17.5    13.3
460-TA     1974    Tanzania    Tanzania Investment Bank                          6.0     1.2
1014-TA     1974    Tanzania    Cashewnut                           21.0                  8.2
495-TA     1974    Tanzania    Sites and Services                                8.5     3.4
507-TA     1974    Tanzania    Highway Maintenance                             10.2      5.7
508-TA     1974    Tanzania    Rural Development                               10.0      7.0
1041-TA     1974    Tanzania    Sugar                                9.0                  2.8
580-TA     1975    Tanzania    Dairy                                           10.0      7.7
1128-TA     1975    Tanzania    Textile                             15.0                  4.6
1172-TA     1975    TIB           Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                  6.5
601-TA     1976    Tanzania    Technical Assistance                             6.0      5.5
606-TA     1976    Tanzania    National Maize Program                          18.0    14.4
607-TA     1976    Tanzania    Education                                       11.0      9.7
1306T-TA     1976    Tanzania    Power                                     30.0           26.3
1307-TA     1976    Tanzania    Forestry                             7.0                  6.2
652-TA     1976    Tanzania    Fisheries                                        9.0      8.8
658-TA     1976    Tanzania    Tobacco Processing                                8.0     5.3
1354-TA     1977    Tanzania    Urban Water Supply                  15.0                 14.7
1385T-TA     1977    Tanzania    Morogoro Industrial Complex               11.5           10.9
1386-TA     1977    Tanzania    Morogoro Industrial Complex         11.5                 10.9
703-TA 3/  1977    Tanzania    Rural Development (Tabora)                       7.2      7.0
732-TA 4/  1977    Tanzania    Second Sites and Services                       12.0    12.0
743-TA 4/  1977    Tanzania    Trucking                                        15.0    15.0
1498-TA 4/  1977    TIB           Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                 15.0
TOTAL                                                 185.7  41.5 278.8   236.3
of which has been repaid                              3.2   -      6.8
Total now outstanding                                 182.5  41.5 272.0
Amonnt sold                        0.1
of which has been repaid         0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDAl                       182.5  41.5  272.0
Total undisbursed                                      68.9  37.2  130.2  236.3
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million has been disbursed
3/   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
4/   These projects became effective on April 3, 1978.



%                                                   ANNEX II
- 28 -
B. SIJMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF MARCH 31, 1978
US$ Million
Loan                                                        Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year    Borrower      Purpose                      Bankl/           Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                                  93.4
638-EA   1969    EAHC          Harbours                     35.0                1.3
674-HA   1970    EARC          Railways                     42.4                3.8
865-EA   1972    EAHC          Harbours                     26.5                1.4
914-EA   1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications           32.5                5.6
1204-EA   1976    EADB          Development Finance          15.0               11.3
Total                                       244.8               23.4
of which has been repaid                   42.5
Total now outstanding                      202.3
Amount sold                   24.4
of which has been repaid   24.4            0.0
Total now held by Bank 1'                  202.3
Total undisbursed                            23.4              23.4
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



- 29-                           ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
(As of March 31, 1978)
There are currently 27 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: $10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and an improvement in
the control over field activities. However, the position with regard to
field staff will continue to be closely watched. Because of weak extension
and farm practices in the past, about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since
1971 must be infilled or rehabilitated, and yields have been lower than
anticipated. No additional planting has been carried out since June 1976
but effective rehabilitation and infilling has been achieved except in the
Bukoba area. Bank recommendations regarding crop yields, husbandry tech-
niques, field organization, TTA structure and extension activities are now
being implemented. Furthermore, market trends in tea have taken a favorable
turn. Progress on the project is expected to continue to improve. The
closing date may require a further extension to allow sufficient time for
completion of the Mwakaleli factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976. Since the review, significant progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO). However, TPL needs to improve its overall efficiency,
and NARCO's financial situation is unsatisfactory. A financing proposal for
NARCO is currently being prepared for presentation to Treasury and the two
financing institutions (TRDB and NBC) in order to return NARCO to financial
viability. The village livestock development component continues to have
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-30 -                      ANNEX II
the same organizr-i.onal problems evident during the review and the seriousness
of the -'1tcation has been recognized by the Prime Minister's Office. In
summary, signQFiLant progress has been made since the review but major problems
remain and require continued attention.
Credit No. 454-TA - GiS-  Cotton Project:  $17.5 million
Credit of January 1/, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5; 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project is much improved since the appointment in October
1977 of a new Project Manager. However, in view of the failure of the
crop technical packages to give economic responses, the project must
now be considered to be an infr-istk 1-ture and adaptive research project
rather than an agricultural pru act ,n project. A major objective is
now to develop a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy.
The most signif1-'qnt progress has been in the trials program with about
50 well distr2  e-' :tnd uupervised trial sites.  Recruitment of staff
has been more vigorously pursued since the Implementation Reviews began.
The major project problems remaining are: the lack of senior staff, the
shortage of extension staff, the inefficient use of tractors, and the
delay in producing accounts. The project will continue to be kept under
close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: $21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is
proceeding in accordance with the revised completion schedule which is about
nine months behind the appraisal estimate. Processing plant and machinery has
been delivered for two factories, and is under shipment for the remaining
three factories. The Cashewnut Authority (CATA) take over of the industry
and the consolidation of its activities are proceeding slowly. Its
management capabilities are limited. Therefore, while the Government's
consultants have effectively supervised construction and the project
includes provision of technical assistance for factory operation, the
development of CATA is important to future progress and is receiving close
attention.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
The village infrastructure construction program has been retarded
by the reappearance of national shortages of key construction materials and
by problems relating to management of materials distribution within the region.



- 31 -                      ANNEX II
The level of credit repayment by farmers taking seasonal inputs from village
godowns stands at approximately 84X-, despite poor yields of cotton (the main
cash crop) in many project villages during the past crop season.  Maize and
bean yields obtained in the past season were good and food crop purchases in
the region by the National Milling Corporation were more than double last
year's record levels. A good start has been made on the program of Agri-
cultural Training and Trials Center and village trials for this season, and
a review of the project's technical strategy is underway. A Joint-Mid-Term
Evaluation of the project is proposed for July-August 1978.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: $9.0 million Credit and $9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The development of estate cane plantations has been completed.
Kilombero Sugar Company's (KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers
continues and is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than
expected cane yields. The inability of the transport system to supply cane
to both factories is a serious constraint to sugar production. The operations
of the new management advisory agreement show some weaknesses, mainly because
Tanzanian senior staff could not be found to fill the line positions vacated
by expatriates. Draft accounts for FY77 are under preparation. After heavy
losses in 1977, mostly due to difficulties in starting operations of the new
factory, KSC is expected to break-even in the following season. The Sugar
Development Corporation has requested Finance to consider KSC's proposals as
to the debt-equity ratio under the project and the terms of the Government
loans. A decision on this matter is expected soon.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: $9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
With the change in TAFICO's management in August 1977, the project
appears to be progressing satisfactorily after the initial delay in imple-
mentation. All formalities with regard to the establishing of the commercial
centers both for the coastal fisheries and Lake Tanganyika have been completed,
and steps have been initiated for the construction of boats and procurement
of engines and fishing gear. In addition, four Ujamaa villages have been
identified for investment under the Ujamaa Pilot Fisheries Program. It is
expected that active fishing operations in all cases should begin before the
end of 1978.



- 32 -                     ANNEX II
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: $18.0 million
Crcdit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with
regard to village participation, delivery of inputs, and concentration on
high potential maize regions, at its mid-term it is beset by a number of
problems which must be overcome if the project is to achieve its primary
objective. The project's extension services are seriously understaffed,
and the deficiencies of extension services and the Government's continued
indecision on its reorganization are constraints affecting project imple-
mentation. Motorcycles and landrovers delivered to the Regions have greatly
increased mobility of supervisory staff; however, other essential equipment
and aids will not be available before mid-1978 because of considerable pro-
curement and administrative delays. Farmers' contributions to the financing
of project inputs vary from Region to Region; in areas of high maize potential
about 80% of the inputs have been distributed in the agreed manner, but in
the remaining Regions contributions have ranged from 13% to 42%. A recent
decrease in the subsidy element from 75% to 50% for all inputs has doubled
the cost to the farmers of fertilizer. Many of the difficulties experienced
result from limited cooperation between the central ministry responsible
for the overall project and the regional authorities in charge of local
implementation. Proposals to improve project implementation by modifying
authority for input financing and by increasing regional responsibility for
assessing, ordering and distributing input requirements are under preparation.
Another problem is the tendency for villages to place undue emphasis on mono-
culture of maize production. A joint RMEA/Headquarters mission recently
reviewed the above difficulties and its recommendations have been submitted
to the Government for consideration.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
Development of the parastatal dairy farms continues to be ahead
of schedule and the loan security/occupancy rights problems have been
resolved for most farms.  A shortage of suitable cattle and lack of milk
pasteurizing facilities at Mbeya are imminent problems. The Ujamaa component
proceeds slowly and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank is actively investi-
gating alternative means of assisting village milk production and consumption.
The foot and mouth disease control investigation has commenced.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: $7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976,; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
The project, which is a five-year slice of the Government pulpwood
plantation program of about 65,000 ha of Pine and Eucalyptus provides for the
planting of almost 16,000 ha, as well as the maintenance of 10,000 ha of
existing plantations, the developing of infrastructure, research, training



-33-                          ANNEX II
and studies. The project got off to a slow start and with serious management
problems. The Project Manager and several section chiefs had to be replaced
in July 1977, and the key post of Roads/Mechanical Engineer is still unfilled.
The first year's plantings mostly failed and practically all targets are behind
schedule. However, under new management the situation has improved considerably.
The nurseries are well stocked and maintained, and the current planting program
should be on schedule. The Engineer post is due to be filled shortly, and
the project should catch up with all arrears over the next year or two.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: $8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
February 15, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The completion of improvements to the existing processing line is
expected by April 1978, one year behind schedule. The new processing line
is to be installed by October 1978 and commissioned in time for the 1979
season. After initial set-backs, construction of storage facilities in
Dar-es-Salaam and Morogoro is progressing satisfactorily. TAT's and TTPC's
liquidity is strained. Government is now providing local counterpart funds
for the project, rather than having TAT and TTPC prefinance capital expend-
itures as foreseen in the Appraisal Report. This greatly facilitates project
implementation. TAT's Financial Department has been further strengthened by
the recruitment of three expatriate senior accountants. An internationally
reputable auditing firm will study TAT's financial system, recommend changes
and assist in implementing them. An expatriate financial advisor will be
engaged to assist the Tanzanian Financial Manager for a number of years.
TAT's audit reports for 1975 and 1976 are being finalized, while TTPC's audit
report for 1977 is under preparation. The Tobacco Sector Study will commence
in the second half of 1978.
Credit No. 703-TA/Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Taboua Rural
Development Project: $12.0 million Credits-7 of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
The project became effective on November 11, 1977. Key staff
have been assigned.  Satisfactory progress is being made on construction of
staff housing and procurement of vehicles is in an advanced stage. The regional
authorities are actively engaged in preparing a detailed work program for
each component. Project implementation is on schedule.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 ($4.8 million) is financed under the special CIDA
arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of $7.2 million.



- 34 -                          ANNEX II
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The project is being implemented with assistance from DANIDA.
Projected estimates of project cost overruns have been reduced within
manageable limits as a result of curtailments of the project (deletion of
three secondary schools) and more favorable than anticipated bids on civil
works. Civil works contracts have been awarded on all project institutions
and construction is proceeding on 12 of 15 sites. Substantial improvements
have been achieved in program planning for Community Education Centers (the
experimental self-help construction project item), and two of these centers
are now in operation. Recruitment of technical assistance specialists in
health included in the project has been slow but arrangements have now been
made with WHO to recruit these specialists.  Disbursements are now 50% of
appraisal estimates, and implementation is, in general, proceeding satis-
factorily. It is likely that the closing date will require a postponement
of one year.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: $11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
The project made a good start with respect to the Village Manage-
ment Technicians (VMT) Training Program. However, some problems have emerged
with respect to the utilization of the VMTs. Five Rural Training Centers
have been rehabilitated, instructional staff have been trained, and courses
have commenced. Expansion of the capacity of 15 secondary schools is slightly
ahead of schedule. A contract has been signed with UNESCO to assist in
conducting a secondary school survey. Proposals for a survey of primary edu-
cation and a review of standards of accountancy training are being prepared.
Construction of housing is behind schedule, but total project costs are so
far within the original estimate and the project should be completed by the
closing date.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project:- $6.5
million Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The contract for the road construction component of this project
was signed in March 1974, two years later than scheduled and at a cost much
higher than estimated. The Bank reduced the primary road construction
1/ The Second Highway Project included Loan 586-TA which was for US$7.0
million. In 1975, surplus funds of US$1.9 million were allocated to
the Third Highway Project, and the Closing Date was extended to
December 31, 1978.



- 35 -                           ANNEX II
component from 200 km to 82 km and transferred US$1.9 million balance from
the completed Second Highway Project (Loan 586-TA) to meet the higher costs.
The AfDB made a loan of 4 million units of account (US$4.8 million equi-
valent) for the other 118 km. The 66 km of new construction on the primary
road is complete except for about 1/4 km of bridge approaches. Additional
investigatory work by the MOW on the remaining 16 km of existing sealed road
has confirmed the feasibility of undertaking minimum improvements and resealing
this section. The Mara betterment work has been completed and the Geita work
is scheduled for completion in mid-1978. Government has received the final
reports of the two preinvestment studies. Funds available under Credit 265-TA
have been fully disbursed, and only $1.4 million of the funds reallocated
from Loan 586-TA remain undisbursed.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: $10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
Orders have been placed and deliveries are well advanced for
about US$6 million worth of equipment and bids for a further US$0.5 million
worth will be called shortly. A contract for 634 man-months of technical
assistance has been signed and 17 of the 31 experts have commenced their
duties in the country. Construction of road camps, deployment of equipment
and training of maintenance personnel are in hand. Maintenance work has
commenced on several trunk roads.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: $15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
An initial supervision mission has just completed its discussions
with the Government on project start-up. The Project Coordinator has been
appointed and this should assist in initiating project execution.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project:
$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
Construction of all the sites and service areas has been completed
and the sites handed over, and upgrading works are nearing completion.
Overall progress and standards of work have been satisfactory. The take-up
rate of housing loans was initially poor, but the Government has now approved
more flexible lending criteria that are within the reach of the target popu-
lation and the situation is expected to improve. Lack of qualified personnel,
and shortcomings in the organization structure of the implementing unit have
led to difficulties in management of the project. Organizational changes
agreed for the Second National Sites and Services Project are aimed at
addressing these problems and some progress has been made on filling crucial
vacancies.



- 36-                        ANNEX II
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: $12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date
of -afectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
This credit became effective on April 3, 1978. Satisfactory progress
is being made on detailed design and engineering for the upgrading sites and
planning for the surveyed sites.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: $15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2,
1977; Closing Date - June 30, 1981
The implementation of the institutional arrangements in connection
with the project, which includes mainly the establishment and operation of
an Urban Water Supply Fund within the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals
and an Urban Water Supply Unit in Morogoro, has been delayed by as much as
a year. Out of three senior advisors to be provided under the project, only
one is on duty. Out of five main contracts needed to construct the works in
Morogoro, one is practically completed, two are being awarded and the bidding
documents for the last two contracts are being finalized. Nine-month delays
in the physical construction of the work in Morogoro resulted mainly from
MWEM's poor administrative capability and difficulties due to the Tanzania/
Kenva border closure. Project implementation is expected to improve signi-
ficantly when the technical and financial advisors funded under the project
report for duty.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
$30 million Loan bn Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
All bids have been received and contracts awarded except for
engineering construction supervision (due to some tax problems which have
to be solved at the Government level). Consulting engineers are continuing
to perform their duties. The revised project cost prepared on the basis
of awarded contracts has shown that there would be a cost overrun of about
31% compared to the appraisal estimate. The revised total financing
requirement is US$117.2 million, of which US$78.7 million is in foreign
currency. The revised financing plan prepared on the basis of the loan
agreements (the agreement requires financing of 75% of civil works costs
which includes indirect foreign exchange costs) has shown that the total
foreign exchange gap of the IBRD/SIDA portion is US$14.1 million, of which
US$12.8 million is indirect foreign exchange costs. If additional financing
is not identified, it will be necessary for the Bank to reduce the



- 37 -                           ANNEX II
percentage disbursement against the civil works contracts (presently set
at 75%). All three civil contractors have essentially completed their
mobilization into the sites and construction has started.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
This Credit has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1172-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0
million Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
February 20, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This Loan is fully committed.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project:  $15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1979
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill
and is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million
linear meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable.
According to present indications, the project is likely to be commissioned
July 1978, four months behind schedule. However, the revised project cost
is within the appraisal estimate. There has been a deterioration in the
operating performance of the existing Mwanza plant as well as some other
textile mills. The National Textile Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company
for state-owned textile mills, has agreed to institute immediately an action
program to improve the operating performance of existing mills.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: $6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
In the recent past this project has gained momentum. Up to the
end of 1977, the TIB Loans Committee had approved a total of 31 proposals -
11 for the new project feasibility studies, 2 for capacity utilization
studies, 16 for overseas training programs for Tanzanians and 2 for locally
conducted training programs. This brings the total commitments made by
TIB under the credit to about $2.6 million. The project has now broken
ground on all activities envisaged under it in the appraisal report. The
first project leader left in July 1977 due to health reasons, but a new
leader is expected to arrive shortly.



- 38 -                            ANNEX II
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: $11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
$11.5 million Bank Loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date OL
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Engineering design and procurement are proceeding on schedule and
at this time there is no reason to anticipate any significant slippage in
the projected dates for factory start-up (second half of 1979) and full
capacity production in 1982. The water drawing rights for the project have
been established.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0
million Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3. 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
This Loan became effective on April 3, 1978.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community.1!
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 2,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
1/ Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of separate
national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed balances for
each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29,
1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978, is given in this Annex.



- 39 -                        ANNEX II
and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths and
a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and
a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed. Of the minor
project elements, only two are still under construction, namely the improve-
ment of lighterage facilities in Tanga and reconstruction of sheds in Mombasa.
Both are expected to be completed before mid-1978. Because of shortage of funds
under both loans, the following minor project elements have not been submitted
for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of the lighterage quay
and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and modernization of the lighterage
quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed contracts have been
awarded for these project elements with the exception of the modernization
of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput has increased
above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling productivity
has imDroved with increasing throughput; however, port labor productivity
has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has declined con-
siderably. The ports of Kenya and Tanzania are now functioning completely
independently of each other. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours
Authority has been enacted, and a Kenya Port Authority is expected to be
established soon. Management of ports in both countries is competent.
Some $33.7 million of Loan 638-EA and $25.1 million of Loan 865-EA has
already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at
October 1, 1977 between the cQuntries concerned is given below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                    (US$ million)
Kenya                                 0.7
Tanzania                              0.6
Total                           1.3
For Loan No. 865-LA
Kenya                                 1.7
Tanzania                              0.3
Total                           2.0
The closing date for Loan No. 638-EA has passed. However, since
the amount allocated to and guaranteed by each partner state is clearly
identified under the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978
(referred to in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977-
R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 40 -                       ANNEX II
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative
and political problems within the Community. in November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to
be used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material.
All three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                    2.0
Tanzania                 3.8
Uganda                   1.9
Total                    7.7
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment, and
training. All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF system construction
have now been completed, despite initial delays caused by staffing and other
problems associated with the reallocation of the headquarters. Funds disbursed
to date total$26.9 million and a further amount of $0.6 million has been com-
mitted for cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and multiplex telex
A contract for the provision of the remaining microwve and associated multi-
plex equipment required for completion of the project is about to be awarded.
The remaining funds are expected to be used for these systems. Because of the
long lead time required for the microwave equipment, the project is expected to
be fully completed by mid-1979. The Closing Date has accordingly been postponed



- 41 -                   ANNEX II
to December 31, 1979. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at
October 1, 1977 among the countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                    2.4
Tanzania                 3.5
Uganda                   0.1
Total                    6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: $15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
Over the last year, the environment within the Community has had a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, and there has been some deterioration
in the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio rising to
50% as of June 30, 1977. However, EADB has been able to retain nearly all
its staff who are both adequate in number and technically competent to continue
the operation of the institution and effect some recovery in the portfolio.
Some $3.7 million has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance
amounts to $3.3 million.



- 42 -                      ANNEX III
TANZANIA: TOBACCO HANDLING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare*                       18 months
(b)  Preparation by*                              Government and RMEA
(c)  Initial Discussion with Bank*                October 1975
(d)  First Bank Mission*                          October 1975
(e)  Appraisal mission's departure                October 1977
(f)  Negotiations                                April 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness               August 1978
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) TAT would mount a campaign to ensure that appropriate crop
hygiene measures would be adopted by farmers and would establish
adequate standards for crop hygiene. After July 31, 1980, no
seasonal or medium-term finance would be extended to tobacco-
producing villages failing to meet these standards (para. 53);
(b) specific criteria for selection of villages eligible for grading/
baling centers would be applied and annual grading/baling
center construction programs would be drawn up by TAT no later
than December 31 of the year prior to construction and submitted
to IDA for information not later than January 31 of the calendar
year of construction (para. 34);
(c) marketing master plans for each tobacco-producing region would
be submitted to IDA for comment by December 31, 1978, and each
annual market center construction program would be provided
to IDA for information not later than January 31 of the calendar
year of construction (para. 35);
(d) after June 30, 1979, TAT would provide transport hire services
on an unsubsidized basis; a list of TAT hire charges would be
submitted to IDA by April 30, 1979, and these charges would be
periodically revised (para. 36);
* during these stages the tobacco handling project was a component of NADP.



- 43 -                          ANNEX III
(e) the completion of subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory
to IDA between the Government and TRDB, and between the
Government and TAT (condition of effectiveness, para. 43);
(f) the appointment of a Building Engineer, after consultation
-                     with IDA on qualifications and experience (condition of effective-
ness, para. 46); and
*                 (g)  the appointment of a Transport Officer, after consultation
with IDA on qualifications and experience (condition of dis-
bursement for vehicles, para. 46).
r






IBRD 13360
U G  AN DA                                                                                                                                                 JANUARY J978
AR<,WE SWAdDA  CNR4N                                 G            P           R            O           JTOWCOHANDLINGPROJECT
kWANDA                                                                                                                      Morr n*obro c                  R.,
<,jt     11 .   0  k algru/urn u;,$  bJ   > t  0 -    *  rXr  -'- - TAN-ZAM  w6wofly
\\ = ' (N G; t t \ L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uguru                              >      t,,OidwldUG  z'N0,    
m            Lib~~~~~ondo         \            1                     ,,                              3                                    RCAt
~~~~7~~~~~A   ~~~~~~~~  ~IA EMAA                                                                                                           B A
K    /0                  0 Kohem z                                     ts-Mbulu g iAt6E 
9;tV  S; A s ,j1. , /~~~~~~~~~~eg                                Kiomboi  .,t.\   
A   tAsulu S 11  jUSs                                                                                                                       A  E  SAi,-.
a  <  0 r> mr 8  ~~tv   \ a i-*>   f4Rungwa        . ~> '            J         Kilosov ,;_i ogoorn fl    Ruvo,-               ES SAL4AM
REKUBLIC
70,1 ,nau A~~~s b~r p,,va    NA,
m'*. s tF \-\: -  S,AN,~ 755 55o                                              Singida
|   |  | t    0      G                    z                            X    )Mnhenge t                                WKilwalitosoRo >~~~~~~~~~~~~Kierohi  MB
_N 1 NJ5NN75NNN'NONNA  NZBARA
| D D ~~~~~~~~~~~32                                                     -                                    *'*5  .- -*Nt,4 : W5'3>x*-   OZA" U       40UE4O 
pa~~~~~  XE,rFLfLn 1da                 1                                       ;jfo1 N-2S Eff    D|X[    t1  



