Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY              FILE  COPY
Report No. 1866-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TANZANIA
TOBACCO HANDLING PROJECT
April 24, 1978
Regional Projects Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiat duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit                                     Tanzanian shilling (TSh.)
US$0.12 1/                                        Tsh. 1.0
US$1.00                                           Tsh. 8.30
US$1,000                                          Tsh. 8,300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metre (m)                                       3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilometre (k)                                   0.62 miles
1 sq. metre (m )                                  10.76 sq2 ft.
1 hectare (ha)                                    10,000 m  = 2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                                   2.204 pounds (lb.)
I metric ton (m. ton)                             1,000 kg. = 2,204 lb.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CCM       -   Chama Cha Mapinduzi, the sole political party of Tanzania
DDD       -   District Development Director
EAC       -   East African Community
EARC      -   East African Railways Corporation
ERB       -   Economic Research Bureau of the University of Dar es Salaam
ICB       -   International competitive bidding
KILIMO    -   Ministry of Agriculture
MDB       -   Market Development Bureau of Kilimo
PMO       -   Prime Minister's Office
RDD       -   Regional Development Director
RPO       -   Regional Planning Officer
TAT       -   Tobacco Authority of Tanzania
TAZARA    -   Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority
TRDB      -   Tanzania Rural Development Bank
TTPC      -   Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
TAT FINANCIAL YEAR
March 1 - February 28
l/   The Tanzanian shilling is pegged to the SDR at a fixed rate of Tsh. 9.66
to the SDR, and hence is floating against the US dollar. The exchange
rate quoted is close to the recent average exchange rate.



FM OFFCIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF THE TOBACCO HANDLING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR ............................                  1
A.   Background             ..............................................     1
B.   Rural Organization ......................................                 2
C.   Agricultural Marketing and Prices .......................                 4
D.   Agricultural Services ...................................                 6
11.  THE TOBACCO SUB-SECTOR .......................................                  8
A.   Production . ......................................                       8
B.   Tobacco Cultivation .       ........................  .                   9
C.   Tobacco Marketing and Processing .......... ..           ............    10
D.   Input Marketing and Credit .............................                 13
E.   Tobacco Prices ....... ..............           .....................    13
F.   Projected Production ....................................                14
G.   Previous IDA Tobacco Projects .........             ..................   15
III. THE TOBACCO AUTHORITY OF TANZANIA .........  16
A.   Organization and Staffing ...............................                16
B.   Finances       ......................     ..........................     18
IV. THE PROJECT                 ...............  19
A.   General Description ...................           ..................     19
B.   Detailed Features .....          ..................................      20
C.   Project Costs ......................           .....................     28
D.   Financing        ....................... .......................         30
E.   Procurement ...........  ............        ......................      31
F.   Disbursements .....................  . ......................            32
G.   Accounts and Audits ...................           ..................     33
This report is based on the findings of two appraisal missions. The first
mission, in June 1977, comprised J. Wijnand, J. Mullan and R. Poldermans
(IDA) and P. Green (consultant) and appraised Phase I of the National Agri-
cultural Development Program of which this Project then formed a part. The
second mission, in October 1977, was composed of J. Mullan (IDA), E. Bowles,
D. Low and C. Bailey (Consultants), and dealt only with this Project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents m ay not otherwise be diclosed without World lank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                         Page No.
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION          ............................. ......  33
A.   Management and Staffing ................... . ..............  33
B.   Reporting ..................... .....  .............          34
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation .....    ........................   35
VI. TOBACCO MARKETS AND PRICE PROSPECTS ..........................    36
A.   World  Markets   ........................................  *.  36
B.   The Market for Tanzanian Tobacco ........... .. ...........    37
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS      .......................    40
A.   Project  Benefits  ........................................   40
B.   Effects on Farmer Incomes .....     ..........................    43
C.   Financial Effects on TRDB ...............................    45
D.   Financial Effects on TAT ................................    45
E.   Government Cash-Flow Implications ................... . . ...    46
F.   Foreign Exchange Implications ....     .......................    46
VIII.ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ...... ................    ......................    47
IX.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................. .    49
ANNEXES
1.  Supporting Charts and Tables ............... . ..................    51
Chart C-1   TAT Organization
Chart C-2   Implementation Schedule
Table T-1   Pattern of Smallholder Flue-Cured Tobacco Production
Table T-2  TAT Summary Income Accounts, 1974-78
Table T-3   TAT Summary Balance Sheets, 1974-78
Table T-4   TAT Projected Cash-flow, 1979-82
Table T-5  Annual Project Costs
Table T-5  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Table T-7   Transport Cost Savings
Table T-8   Benefits of Project Components
Table T-'9  Tobacco Crop Budgets
Table T-L0  Financial Analysis of Flue-Cured Grading/Baling Centre
Table T-11  Financial Analysis of Fire-Cured Grading/Baling Centre
Table T-L2  Incremental TRDB Cash-flow
Table T-13 Incremental TAT Recurrent Costs
Table T-14  Incremental TAT Cash-flow
Table T-15  Projected TAT Operating Accounts
Table T-16  Projected TAT Cash-flow
Table T-17  Projected TAT Balance Sheets
Table T-18  Incremental Government Cash-flow
Table T-19  Foreign Exchange Effects of Project
Table T-20  Economic Costs and Benefits
2.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File  .....   74
MAP  -    Tobacco Growing Areas in Tanzania - IBRD 13360



I. THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
A. Background
1.01      Tanzar4a has a total population of about 15.3 million (mid-1976),
which is increasing at an annual rate of about 2.7 percent. Average per
capita GNP for 1976 is estimated at US$180, and average per capita income
in the rural areas is put at about US$70. The real growth rate of GDP of
the economy averaged about 4.8 percent per annum over the period 1964-1975.
Roughly 40 percent of GDP is derived from agriculture and related activities
such as forestry, with about half of this contribution coming from subsistence
production. About 94 percent of the Tanzania population lives in the rural
areas, and 90 percent of the economically active population is engaged in
agriculture.
1.02      Most agricultural production is from smallholdings using family
labor. Large-scale agriculture is confined to a small number of private
estates and state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea, sugar, wheat, rice and
livestock. Estate production has diminished in importance, and the state
farm program remains small. Tanzania's national livestock herd, with a cattle
population estimated at 10 million head, is grazed extensively over the 40
percent of the country which is free from tsetse fly infestation. It is
largely managed along traditional lines.
1.03      About 70 percent of Tanzania's foreign exchange earnings from
merchandise exports are accounted for by exports of unprocessed agricultural
commodities, and a further 7 percent comes from exports of processed farm
products. The major agricultural export commodities are cotton, coffee,
sisal, cashew-nuts, tea and tobacco.
1.04      The recent performance of the agricultural sector has been sluggish.
Over the period 1967-1976, the average annual rate of growth of agricultural
production was 2.8 percent, only slightly greater than the rate of population
growth. From the late 1960's onward, food crop production failed to keep
pace with population growth and, as a result, Tanzania became increasingly
dependent on imports of maize, rice and wheat. The effects of this slow
growth were exacerbated in 1973 and 1974 by a severe drought which resulted
in poor harvests and large imports of foodgrains. In 1975 and 1976, agricul-
tural production recovered from the effects of the drought, increasing in
real terms by about 6.5 percent in 1975 and by a further 4.5 percent in 1976.
Preliminary estimates are that agricultural production expanded by about 5
percent in 1977.
Agricultural and Rural Development Strategy
1.05     The Government has undertaken a comprehensive program to support the
development of productive activities in the agricultural sector, in conjunc-
tion with efforts to achieve balanced regional growth and more equitable
income distribution. Within these objectives, Government is paying partic-
ular attention to achieving self-sufficiency in food production (assisted
by an IDA credit of US$18.0 million for a National Maize Project) and to
supporting those crops which represent sources of foreign exchange earnings.
Considerable emphasis is being placed on production as well as on the social



-2-
aspects of rural development projects. Government has made substantial head-
way during the past decade in laying the foundations for a long-term program
of rural development. Beginning in 1970, the Government launched a wide-
ranging program to resettle the country's rural populations into villages.
In 1972; it decentralized government administration to the regional and
district levels in order to tailor development programs more closely to
the needs of the villages (paras. 1.07-1.09). In 1975, it instituted the
Vi:Llage and Ujamaa Villages Act, which laid down the legislative base and
procedures for the newly created villages (paras. 1.10-1.12). With the
establishment oE new villages, the Government set very ambitious targets,
(which may be beyond its limited capacity to achieve), to provide essential
social services. Under a Universal Primary Education Program launched in
1974, close to 1L00 percent of all primary school age were enrolled in primary
schlool by the end of 1977. A program of village water supply was initiated
in the same year with the objective of providing the entire rural population
with an accessible supply of potable water by 1991; so far, 36 percent of
villages have water supply systems. A program has also been launched to
provide the full rural population with access to rudimentary health care as
socn as possible.
1.06     However, the rural populace has yet to experience the benefits of
the Government's overall strategy. Real rural per capita incomes actually
declined by 4 percent between 1969-1975 and represent only about 40 percent of
average urban incomes. Because of implementation problems, the Government's
social programs still meet the needs of only a small proportion of the total
rural population. Although major institutional reforms have been made, the
institutional structure in the rural sector is still in flux, and may require
yet further change.   In some respects (for example, changes in the input
delivery system), excessive institutional change has been partly responsible
for the relatively poor performance of the agricultural sector.
B. Rural Organization
Decentralization
1.07     In order to obtain greater local participation in the design of its
programs and projects, to speed their execution and to encourage the mobil-
ization of local resources, the Government, in 1972, adopted a decentralized
administrative structure. Regional and District authorities were granted
primary responsibility for the planning and implementation of development
activities within their jurisdictions, and were given a high degree of ad-
ministrative autonomy. Tanzania is now divided in 20 Regions, containing a
total of 80 Districts. The political head of each Region is the Regional
Comnissioner, who has the rank of Cabinet Minister, and who is chairman
of the Regional Development Committee, a member of the country's National
Assembly and of the National Executive Committee of Tanzania's only political
party, Chama Cha Mapinduzi 1/ (CCM), and also regional CCM Secretary. The
political head at the District level is the Area Commissioner, who is the CCM
1/   Roughly translatable from the Swahili as "the Party for Revolution".



-3-
District Secretary and Chairman of the District Development Committee. All
Regional and Area Commissioners are directly appointed by the President of the
Republic of Tanzania.
1.08      The Regional civil service is headed by the Regional Dev lopment
Director (RDD), assisted by a Regional Planning Officer, and by the heads of
the twelve Regional functional departments of the eleven central ministries
represented in each Region. 1/ The head of each of these departments reports
directly to the RDD, who, in turn, is responsible to central Government
through the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). At the District level, the admin-
istration is headed by the District Development Director (DDD), assisted by a
District Planning Officer and the heads of the District functional departments,
which are the same as those represented at the Regional level. The field-level
staff of the central ministries are answerable to the DDD through the heads of
their functional departments, but receive technical guidance from the func-
tional staff at the Regional level and, through them, from the central minis-
tries. All civil servants within a Region are ultimately responsible to the
RDD and, once appointed to a Region, can only be transferred with the consent
of the RDD.
1.09      This decentralization of government authority has served to improve
communications between the Government and the village and between the Party
cadre and the civil service. Villages, in principle, have more opportunity
to participate in the planning and implementation of the development programs
which affect their future. The Party is more aware of individual village needs.
The civil service operating at the district and regional levels has a more
integrated approach to rural development than was possible through the central
technical ministries. However, qualified manpower is still insufficient to
fill the many positions demanded by a decentralized government structure.
Decentralization has not led to the anticipated levels of local participation
in the planning process, which remains dominated by the central ministries.
The division of responsibility between the central ministries, regional and
district authorities and parastatals remains poorly defined, and bureaucratic
tensions persist.
Villagization
1.10      Since independence, the grouping of dispersed farm families into
villages has been a key element of Government strategy for the rural areas,
in order to facilitate the provision of infrastructure and services to the
rural population, and to encourage self-reliance and a community approach to
rural development. During 1974, the emphasis shifted from creating additional
ujamaa 2/ villages (the ultimate goal of which was fully collectivized agri-
cultural production) to forming "planned" or "development" villages, which
place less stress on communal production, and more on "block farming" (in
1/   The eleven Ministries are Education, Health, Lands, Industry, Commerce,
Natural Resources, Water, Public Works, Ujamaa and Cooperatives, Culture
and Kilimo. Kilimo has two departments in each Region, Crop Development
and Livestock Development.
2/   "Ujamaa" is a Swahili word meaning "familyhood".



- 4 -
which each farmer cultivates his own plot within an overall block of land
allocated to the village) and on individual holdings within the village frame-
work. At the same time, the pace of villagization was considerably accele-
rated, not without some disruption of production in some areas. At the
present time, there are some 7,670 registered villages, containing over
three-quarters of Tanzania's rural population.
1.11      The village is intended to act as the country's primary social,
economic and political unit. Basic social services, including health facili-
ties, classrooms and water supply systems, are to be located in each village.
Economic services, including provision of credit, supply of inputs, organi-
zation of extension services and marketing of produce, are to be coordinated
at village level. Economic infrastructure, such as storage godowns, proces-
sing equipment and small-scale industries, is to be village-owned. The vil-
lages' legal status has been spelled out in the Villages and lJjamaa Villages
(Registration, Designation and Administration) Act of 1975. Each village of
between 250 and 650 families is registered and elects through a Village
Assembly a Village Council. The Village Council has the power to allocate land
and control its use, can own heavy agricultural machinery and other capital
goods, can borrow and is required to establish a capital fund, a reserve
funld and a disposable fund.
1.12      It is too early to judge how effectively the villages will be able
to meet their ambitious goals. Early peformance has been mixed, with villages
in some regions demonstrating an impressive ability to mobilize local support
fot the construction of social infrastructure (such as schools) or productive
infrastructure (such as village grain and input stores), whilst other villages
have shown little ability to effectively mobilize local resources. Villagiza-
tion has brought with it problems which are increasingly being felt in Tanzania.
In some areas of high population density, villagization has led to overgrazing
and depletion of soil fertility. In other areas, there are substantial
diseconomies in that villagers must now travel further to cultivate fields,
collect fuelwood and draw potable water. The Government has already acted
(through 'Operation Correction' in 1976) to rectify the most serious cases of
misallocation, buat more attention to village siting and size is needed to
overcome many of the existing problems of village settlements.
C. Agricultural Marketing and Prices
Parastatals
1.13      In 1976, the District and Regional Cooperative Unions, which formerly
played an important role in agricultural marketing, were dissolved and their
functions transferred to other national, regional and district organizations,
the most prominent of which are the various parastatal crop authorities. At
present, there are separate parastatal institutions for coffee, cotton, sisal,
tea, tobacco, cashew-nuts, pyrethrum, sugar, livestock and dairy products and
foodgrains. Many of these parastatals have been established quite recently,
or have taken over the functions of predecessor organizations. The general
tendency has been for Government to enlarge the role and scope of these
organizations, placing a severe strain on their manpower resources.



- 5 -
1.14      The marketing system is often characterized by lack of competition,
high marketing costs, poor service and slow payments to farmers. Many para-
statals have been proven to be inefficient, with excessive overhead costs.
Overall operational efficiency has not improved over the past decade, and may
even have declied in some cases. These inefficiencies have resulted in in-
creased trading margins, which in turn lead to higher consumer prices and/or
lower producer prices. These problems have been exacerbated by the changes
outlined above. While some parastatals have performed creditably, there is
evidence of crops not being purchased and transported in a timely fashion, of
delayed payments and of further increases in marketing costs. The Tanzanian
Government is aware of these problems, and is taking steps to remedy the
situation, which include the review by the Standing Committee on Parastatal
Organization (SCOPO) of the structure and managerial performance of parasta-
tals, recent dismissals of staff in parastatals that were over-manned, and the
return of some parastatal activities to the private sector.
Pricing Policy
1.15      The control of producer and wholesale prices of major crops in
Tanzania is an important policy tool of Government. Almost all principal
export crops are controlled, as are major food products (with the exception
of such items as fruits, vegetables, eggs and fish). Responsibility for
making price recommendations rests with the Ministry of Agriculture, with
final decisions on pricing taken by the Economic Committee of Cabinet. Prior
to 1974, Government downplayed the use of price incentives to encourage in-
creased production. Thus, for several years prior to 1974, most producer
prices were held fixed despite increases in input costs. Since then, however,
the Government has recognized the need to maintain farmer incentives by pro-
viding remunerative returns. During 1974, very substantial producer price
increases were introduced and since then, producer prices have been reviewed
annually, with further price increases announced to maintain farmers' produc-
tion incentives.
1.16      In recent years, Government has encouraged the use of inputs such
as fertilizer and improved seed through subsidization. Particularly in
the case of fertilizer, distribution and use has often been indiscriminate,
with little regard being paid to whether the use of fertilizer on particular
crops or particular soil types was agronomically and economically desirable.
Much greater attention is now being given by Government to ensuring that
such inputs are distributed for use only where such use is profitable. In
the case of fertilizer, the level of subsidy has been progressively reduced
from 100 percent of total cost in the 1973/74 and 1974/75 seasons, to 75 per-
cent of cost in 1975/76 and 50 percent of cost in 1976/77 and 1977/78. How-
ever, at present world fertilizer prices, the subsidized price of fertilizer
to farmers is roughly equivalent to the landed cost of imported fertilizer,
reflecting the fact that the Tanzania Fertilizer Company (which produces the
bulk of fertilizer used in Tanzania) is a high-cost producer, and that the
present level of subsidy represents a subsidy to the factory, rather than
to the agricultural sector.



-6-
D. Agricultural Services
Research
1.17      Agricultural research in Tanzania is undertaken by a variety of
governmental agencies. Kilimo is responsible for overall guidance of the
national research effort, and operates a network of crop and livestock re-
search stations   Tanzania's research system has several weaknesses.  Kilimo
has not been able to exercise effective control and, as a result, priorities
have not always been firmly established, the regional emphasis has been
unclear, and research resources have not been allocated in accordance with
development priorities. There is a need for greater focus on improving
knowledge about Tanzania's various agro-economic zones, and on improving the
farming systems in these zones through a greater emphasis on field testing.
The links between research and extension are weak, partly as a result of
the failure of the Regions, who are responsible for extension, to coordi-
nate with Kilimo which is in charge of research and training.
1.1.8     Agricultural research in Tanzania is increasingly becoming linked
with the various international agricultural research institutes under the
Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR). IDA is
intending to assist, as part of a proposed Agricultural Services Project, in
strengthening the ability of the Tanzanian research system to carry out field
testing, and in forging effective links with the agricultural extension
services. The Tanzanian research system also receives support under the
Tabora Rural Development Project (Cr 703-TA), and additional support would
be provided under the proposed Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project.
Extension
1.19      The agricultural extension service in Tanzania is staffed by about
100 graduates, 3,000 field officers who have received some formal training,
and about 3,500 field assistants, many of whom have received no formal
training. Of field level extension staff, about 54 percent are employed by
Kilimo but under the day-to-day control of the region, with the remaining 46
percent employed by various crop parastatals. As the research base is weak,
extension agents have few proven technical packages to extend to the farmers.
The training of ifield staff is grossly inadequate, and refresher courses are
infirequent. A review of the extension system has been underway in Tanzania for
about two years, with Kilimo and the PMO holding differing views on how it
should be reorganized.  In order to assist in the development of an effective
extension service, IDA has proposed to carry out jointly with the Government
an i'nitial survey of the needs of research and extension services in Tanzania,
with the intention of following through to the preparation of a research and
extension training component of a National Agricultural Services Project.



-7-
Credit
1.20      Long, medium and short-term agricultural credit is provided by the
Tanzanian Rural Development Bank (TRDB) which administers special funds on
behalf of the Government, and which has been supported by the Bank Group as
the major credit channel for those IDA funds disbursed for direct use by
farmers.  During the year ending 30th June 1977, (1976/77) TRDB made loans
totalling Tsh. 77 million, of which Tsh. 33 million (43 percent) went to
registered villages (mainly for seasonal inputs), and Tsh. 16 million (20
percent) went to parastatals, with the remainder split between cooperative
societies, producer associations and District Development Corporations.
Almost Tsh. 53 million (68 percent) of TRDB's lending in 1976/77 was for
short-term finance of seasonal crop inputs. The remainder was medium and
long-term credit, including Tsh. 15 million (19 percent) for livestock de-
velopment and Tsh. 5 million (7 percent) for rural transport, with smaller
amounts for small-scale industries, crop storage facilities, farm machinery
and fisheries development. TRDB at present charges interest rates of 8.5
percent on short-term financing, and 7.5-8.5 percent on medium- and long-
term credit. A project to further strengthen TRDB is currently being pre-
pared with IDA assistance.
1.21      Since it was founded in 1971, TRDB's operations have been complicated
by villagization, decentralization the disbanding of the regional co-operative
unions, and the drought of 1973 and 1974. These developments have created
special difficulties for TRDB, and weaknesses in its portfolio reflect these
difficulties. Yet, throughout this period, TRDB has increased its level of
operations and upgraded its staff, and its management has shown an ability to
deal with its problems.
Rural Transport Services
1.22      An adequate road transport system is needed to ensure the efficient
movement of crops to market centres and railheads, and to support timely
delivery of agricultural inputs to the farmers. Despite Government's efforts
to upgrade the road network, which have been concentrated in recent years on
bitumenizing existing roads rather than building new ones, only about 10 per-
cent of the 33,400 km of roads provide reliable, all weather service. The
remainder are, in general, little more than earth tracks impassable in the
rainy season. The condition of the road network is generally poor, reflect-
ing the lack of adequate maintenance due to shortages of equipment and qual-
ified staff, institutional inefficiencies and insufficient budgetary alloca-
tions. Rural roads are in especially poor condition. Current government
action to address these problems includes the provision of staff training
and equipment under the IDA-assisted Highway Mtaintenance Project (Credit
507-TA), the Tabora Regional Development Project (Credit 703-TA), and the
Geita Cotton Project (Credit 454-TA), and recently created Betterment and
Maintenance Units, which are upgrading selected secondary roads in several
regions. Assistance to the trucking industry is being provided through
the IDA-supported Trucking Industry Rehabilitation and Improvement Project
(Cr. 743-TA).



- 8 -
II. THE TOBACCO SUB-SECTOR
A. Production
2.01      The production and export of tobacco is becoming increasingly
important to the Tanzanian economy. At present, about 54,000 farm families,
containing around 270,000 people, are dependent on the production of tobacco
for at least part of their cash income. The value of exports of tobacco
rose from Tsh. 30 million in 1968, to Tsh. 260 million in 1976, when tobacco
exports accounted for 7 percent of total Tanzanian merchandise exports. Two
main types of tobacco are currently produced in Tanzania: flue-cured Virginia
tobacco and fire-cured dark tobacco. Recently, some areas of the country have
started production of burley tobacco, which is air-cured, but current produc-
tion is less thian 40,000 kg. The location of the main tobacco producing areas
in Tanzania is illustrated in Map IBRD 13360. Tobacco production in recent
years is tabulated below:
Tanzanian Tobacco Production
Flue-cured       Fire-cured
Production Year 1/                 Production
(million kg. 2/)
1964/65                  3.9             1.2
1965/66                  3.6             1.5
1966/67                  4.6             3.2
1967/68                  8.2             2.1
1968/69                  8.9             3.5
1969/70                  8.7             2.1
1970/71                 10.6             3.6
1971/72                 10.6             1.9
1972/73                 11.1             2.9
1973/74                 15.2             4.1
1974/75                 11.9             2.3
1975/76                 14.5             4.1
1976/77                 14.7             3.6 3/
1/ The production year runs from August to July.
2/ Cured leaf.
3,1 Lower than the 5.0 million expected, as a result
of late factory opening, which led to substantial
private sales by producers on local markets.
2.02      Flue-cured tobacco is grown mainly in the Tabora, Mbeya and Iringa
Regions, but also in the Shinyanga, Rukwa, Singida and Kigoma Regions. Pro-
duc:tion has risen from 3.9 million kg in 1964/65, to 14.7 million kg. in
1976/77. This r-ise in production resulted largely from increasing numbers
of small farmers being attracted to tobacco production by favorable prices.
In the 1976/77 season, about 25 percent of the crop was produced by sixty
relatively large scale farmers in the Iringa Region. Production from these
farmers has remained relatively constant over the past few years at about



3.5 million kg., and is expected to remain at about this level in the future.
About 75 percent of the 1976/77 crop was grown by smallholder producers.
Table T-1 summarises smallholder production data for the 1976/77 season.
About 290 villages, containing 110,000 farm families, were involved in flue-
cured tobacco production, and, of this population, about 35,000 families
(about 32 percent) were engaged in tobacco production. Slightly fewer than
19,000 hectares (ha) of tobacco were cultivated in 1976/77, an average of
0.54 ha per family. Average marketed yield was about 580 kg. per ha, or 313
kg. per producing family. Fluecured tobacco production is concentrated in
the Tabora and Urambo areas, which together compose the administrative region
of Tabora, and which account for about 80 percent of total smallholder flue-
cured tobacco production.
2.03      Fire-cured tobacco is grown mainly in Ruvuma region, but also, to a
very small extent, in the West Lake and Kigoma Regions. Production marketed
through TAT has risen from 1.2 million kg. in 1964-65 to 4.1 million kg. in
1975/76, but expansion has been erratic, largely as a result of unreliable
supplies of inputs and services to Ruvuma during the period when access to
this Region (which borders on Mozambique) was restricted on security grounds,
and because the crop is sold locally on informal markets. Fire-cured tobacco
is produced entirely by small scale producers. In 1976/77 about 230 villages
were involved. The total number of farm families settled in these villages
was about 90,000, of whom about 19,000 were engaged in the production of
firecured tobacco. About 9,500 hectares were planted to fire-cured tobacco,
an average of 0.5 hectares per family. Average marketed yield was 530 kg. per
hectare. Ruvuma Region accounted for about 98% of total marketed production.
B. Tobacco Cultivation
2.04      Flue-cured tobacco is generally grown in a five-year rotation with
food crops (maize and cassava) and a period of fallow. Farmers establish their
own nursery beds in September, and transplant seedlings at the start of the
rains in November or December. Reaping of leaves starts in late January, and
continues, at 6 to 10 day intervals, until April or May. The reaped leaves
are cured in small barns heated by hot air which passes through the barn in
metal flue-pipes leading from a wood-fired furnace. The curing process takes
about 6 or 8 days. When the lamina and mid-rib of the leaf are completely
dry, the fire is allowed to go out and the cured tobacco leaves, which are
hygroscopic, are allowed to condition by taking up atmospheric moisture.
2.05      Cultivation techniques for fire-cured tobacco are similar.  However,
since the leaves for fire-curing need to be heavy-bodied, the bottom three or
four leaves on each plant are discarded in the field. After harvesting, the
leaves are tied and packed into a curing barn constructed of unburnt mud
bricks or poles plastered with mud. The leaves are left for six to eight
days to wilt and yellow, without heat being used. After this period, open
fires using partially wet wood are started in pits within the barn. Smoke
then gradually turns the leaves brown. After a further four or five days,
larger fires using dry wood are started, to raise the barn temperature. Cur-
ing is complete on about the 18th or 20th day.



- 10 -
2.06      In some areas, particularly the older established flue-cured tobacco
producing areas of Tabora and Urambo, the supply of wood for use as fuel dur-
ing tobacco curing is becoming restricted.  This has led to rising produc-
tion costs and deteriorating environmental conditions. To ensure an adequate
future supply of firewood, a plantation program is needed in all flue-cured
tobacco areas and in some fire-cured tobacco producing areas. The Government
is aware of this problem. Kilimo is presently discussing a reafforestation
program for the tobacco areas with the Forest Division of the Ministry of
Natural Resources, and the Tabora Regional Development Project, supported by
IDA Credit 703-TA, provides for a pilot program for the establishment of vil-
lage forest plantations.
2.07      In general, tobacco production in Tanzania is free from the effects
of major tobacco diseases. However, virus bushy top disease was first observed
in Ruvuma Region in 1975, and has since spread throughout the tobacco growing
areas of Tanzania. Bushy-top is a leaf distorting disease which is trans-
mitted by the peach aphid, and which can cause severe reductions in tobacco
yields. The most important step that can be taken by producers to limit the
spread of this disease is prompt destruction of tobacco plant residues. As
each plant is stripped of its last leaves, the stalk plus roots must be pulled
out, left to dry in the sun and later burned. Any field regrowth must also be
destroyed. At present, these procedures are not being followed by Tanzanian
tobacco producers, principally because the incidence of disease is as yet
minor in Tanzania. However, in order to safeguard the considerable Tanzanian
investments in tobacco production, marketing and processing facilities, TAT
has been requested to consider how best it might enforce existing legislation,
under the Tobacco Act, to provide for a tobacco 'close-season.' It is not
envisaged that the destruction of tobacco plant residues would place an undue
burden on producers. It was agreed at negotiations that TAT would mount
a campaign to ensure that farmers carry out the destruction of crop residues,
would formulate adequate crop hygiene standards and consult with IDA on the
methods and steps to be taken to reach such standards; and that, after July
31st, 1980, no seasonal or medium-term credit for tobacco production would
be extended by T'RDB to villages which failed to meet these standards.
C. Tobacco Marketing and Processing
Grading and baling
2.08      When the tobacco (flue - or fire-cured) has taken up sufficient
moisture to become pliable, it is removed from the barn and graded. Tobacco
grading involves the sorting of the individual leaves into uniform lots.
The criteria for grading are the position of the leaf on the plant, leaf
texture, color, the degree of spotting, and whether the leaf is broken or
whole. One barn of flue-cured tobacco normally contains eight to twelve
disitinct types of tobacco that should be separated during grading, since
prices vary from one grade to another. For fire-cured tobacco the number
of grades from each harvesting is unlikely to exceed six. After grading,



- 11 -
the tobacco is stored by the farmer until he has accumulated sufficient for
baling. Major grades, each consisting of 30 kg. or more, are placed in a
baling-box and, after compression, are sewn in tar-lined paper and hessian
cloth. Minor grades are pooled by a number of farmers and are baled together,
with each farmer keeping a record of his contribution to that bale. Each bale
is marked with a number, identifying the producer or producers.
2.09      There is a lack of adequate on-farm storage for tobacco prior to
baling. The tobacco is usually stored in the farmers' homes or in make-
shift sheds and this results in a significant lowering of tobacco quality,
often past the point at which tobacco is marketable. To maximize efficiency
of operation and to minimize damage to the tobacco, both grading and baling
should take place in a weatherproof building with good natural lighting
conditions, under the supervision of a tobacco extension agent. At present,
owing to the general lack of such facilities, grading and baling are often
carried out in the open or in makeshift temporary sheds, with resulting loss
of quality and quantity of tobacco. A principal aim of this Project would
be to reduce these losses (paras. 4.04, 4.07).
Tobacco Classification
2.11      Each bale of tobacco is purchased by the Tobacco Authority of
Tanzania (TAT) on the basis of its weight, and a quality grade assigned
to it by a TAT classifier. If, as is often the case, grading has been poorly
carried out, and the bale contains a mixture of grades, the grade assigned to
the bale is determined by the quality of the lowest grade in the bale. Hence,
it is important for farmers to grade well if they are to receive the full
value of their crop. In the case of flue-cured tobacco there are more than
one hundred such grades, and there are sixteen grades for fire-cured tobacco.
The purchase price for each grade is announced by TAT in advance of the mar-
keting season.
2.12      Tobacco classification should be carried out in well-constructed
permanent market centers, where tobacco bales can be adequately stored prior
to and after classification. At present there is a shortage of permanent
marketing centers and classification is often carried out in the open air.
Tobacco bales must then be stored in the open while awaiting transportation
to a processing facility. Lack of transport capacity results in delays in
the transport of bales, and this, coupled with the lack of storage, leads
to losses in tobacco quantity and quality. The Project would aim to reduce
these losses through improvements in the marketing system (paras. 4.09, 4.13).
Tobacco Processing
2.13      Fire-cured tobacco is processed in the TAT factory at Songea, while
flue-cured tobacco is sent to a factory at Morogoro which is operated by the
Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company (TTPC), a subsidiary of TAT. Both of these
processing factories are currently being expanded, that at Morogoro under the
Tobacco Processing Project supported by IDA Credit 658-TA. The processing of



- 12 -
tobacco involves the blending and preparation of the leaf, followed by drying
of the product to a specified moisture content. The tobacco is sold to pur-
chasers by TAT prior to processing, on the basis of a price for each tobacco
grade which is announced to prospective buyers by TAT in advance of the start
of the marketing season. The efficient operation of the tobacco processing
factories is presently hampered by a lack of storage capacity and by inadequate
transport facilities for moving the crop to and from the factories. Measures
to deal with these problems are proposed under the Project (paras. 4.20, 4.23).
Efficiency of Marketing System
2.14      The average smallholder farmer in Tanzania produces a crop with a
potential yie:Ld of cured tobacco in excess of 1,100 kg. per hectare. However,
analysis has shown that the small-scale producer loses about 10 percent of his
potential crop in the field, due to lack of barn capacity; a further 10
percent in the curing barn, through poor curing techniques; and an additional
25 percent through inefficient post-curing handling and marketing procedures.
Consequently, average marketed smallholder production per hectare is only
about 600 kg. These levels of marketed yield compare extremely unfavorably
with those obtained on the large commercial farms in Iringa, where field crops
of similar standard to smallholder crops produce 1,100 kg. per hectare of
marketed tobac:co, largely as a result of superior storage, grading and baling
techniques. The present marketing system for smallholder tobacco thus has
significant shortcomings, mainly as a result of the poor standard of storage,
handling and transport facilities.
2.15      In other respects, the present tobacco marketing system generally
operates satisfactorily. TAT's selling prices for the various grades of
tobacco are set on the basis of a review by TAT and the Market Development
Bureau (MDB) of Kilimo of market prospects for tobacco, and corresponding
sales prices in other tobacco producing countries, in particular Malawi and
Zambia. Producer prices are established annually on the basis of TAT sales
prices less TAT operating costs and are reasonably attractive to farmers.
Classifiers are well-trained and competent, and TAT has a training program
for classifiers, to ensure that an adequate supply of qualified staff will
be available to meet expected future demands.
2.16      A study was carried out in 1971 to investigate the possibility of
moving from the present system, where final sales are made by TAT on a contract
basis, to a marketing system in which tobacco bales are sold by auction. The
findings of this study were that while in the longer-term Tanzania should
aim to adopt an auction-based system, in the short and medium term the exist-
ing standards of tobacco presentation were considered too poor to enable
buyers at an auction to be able to bid on bales with confidence, and the high
proportion of mixed and mouldy bales (resulting from poor grading, baling and
storage) was considered unmanageable under an auction system. In addition, it
was felt that Tanzania needed to reach and sustain a substantially higher
volume of tobacco production. These reasons for not recommending immediate



- 13 -
adoption of an auction system still hold good today and IDA staff concurs
with TAT's judgement that introduction of an auction sales systems is not at
present warranted.
D. Input Marketing and Credit
2.17      The input required for the production of tobacco are provided on
seasonal credit extended to villages by the Tanzanian Rural Development Bank
(TRDB), (para. 1.20). No downpayment by tobacco producers is required. The
credit from TRDB covers the full cost of fertilizer, seed-bed packs, pesti-
cides, materials for curing barn construction (flue-pipes, etc.) and materials
for baling (tar-lined paper, hessian cloth, jute twine). Input requirements
are estimated for each village by TAT and TRDB jointly. TRDB procures the
necessary inputs and arranges delivery to the villages. TAT field staff in
each village maintain records of the quantity and value of inputs used by each
producer. When the crop is marketed TAT deducts and pays to TRDB 60 percent
of the crop proceeds from each producer, until his seasonal loan repayments
are net. Current seasonal credit recovery rates from tobacco producers are
about 90-95 percent.
E. Tobacco Prices
2.18      Both TAT's selling prices and producer prices have been rising
steadily in recent years.
Average TAT Tobacco Prices
(Tsh per kilogram)
Year 1/ 1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78 2/
Flue-cured tobacco
Processed tobacco sales         13.01    15.93    16.15       17.20    19.20
Wet-leaf basis 3/               11.31    13.85    14.04       14.96    16.70
Producer prices                  5.67      6.50     7.41       7.99      8.10
Fire-cured tobacco
Processed tobacco sales          7.93      9.77    11.90      13.30    13.80
Wet-leaf basis 3/                6.90      8.50    10.35      11.63    12.00
Producer price                   2.21      2.37     2.89       4.49      4.50
1/   Refers to marketing years; the tobacco is produced in the previous
crop year.
2/   Partly estimated.
3/   A 15 percent weight loss occurs during processing.



- 14 -
Over the period 1973/74 to 1977/78 the average TAT selling price for flue-
cured tobacco rose by 48 percent, and in the case of fire-cured tobacco, the
increase was 74 percent. Over the same period, the average producer price
paid to farmers has risen by 43 percent in the case of flue-cured tobacco,
and by 103 percent for fire-cured tobacco.
F. Projected Production
2. L9      In the last thirteen years, the total production of tobacco of
al'L types in Tanzania has increased from 5 million kg. to just under 20
mi:Llion kg. Most of the expansion was achieved by smallholders. It is
not: easy to pro ject the rate at which future production increases will be
achieved. The future rate of growth will depend on the number of families
taking up and maintaining tobacco production, the area grown by each family,
ancl the marketed yields achieved. These variables in turn will be subject
to such factors as relative prices of tobacco and competing crops, such as
maize; the availability and price of inputs and fire-wood for curing; the
eff'iciency of the extension service, and the longer-term effects of villagi-
zat;ion. TAT has adopted a policy of consolidation for the next few years,
during which efforts will be concentrated on raising production in existing
tobacco villages, through recruitment of new tobacco farmers, and increases in
tobacco areas and yields.  TAT forecasts production increases averaging about
15 percent per annum until 1982/83, when production will reach 36 million kg.
These projections appear over-optimistic. The greater emphasis being placed
on food-crop production (as evidenced by sharply increased grain producer
prices) is likely to channel land and labor resources away from tobacco
towards crops such as maize. In some areas, such as Chunya, in Mbeya Region,
there is increasing competition for labor from other sectors (steel, gold-
mining, etc.).  Depletion of forest resources, which will increasingly in-
volve growers in heavy firewood transport costs and labor expenditure, may
be a constraint on a crop growth, particularly in the older-established areas.
Taking those factors into account, a reasonable figure for future production
increases might be 7 percent per annum, about 5 percent per annum of which
would come from recruitment of new growers, 1 percent from increases in area
cultivated per grower and 1 percent from yield increases. This would result
in the following pattern of growth:
Year: 1976/77  77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83 --- 86/87
Flue-cured           14.7    15.7   16.8   18.0   19.3   20.6   22.1            28.9
Fire-cured            3.6      5.4    5.7    6.1    6.6    7.0    7.5            9.8
Total              18.3    21.1   22.5   24.1   25.9   27.6   29.6 1/   38.7
1/   This compares with an estimate by TAT of 36.0 million kg.



- 15 -
G. Previous IDA Tobacco Projects
Flue-cured Tobacco Production Project (Credit 217-TA)
2.20      An IDA credit of US$9.0 million was extended in October 1970 for a
project aimed at increasing the production of flue-cured tobacco in Tanzania.
The project was restricted to development of flue-cured tobacco only because
the fire-cured producing areas were close to the border with Mozambique, and
access to them was restricted at that time. The project specifically provided
for settlement of 15,000 new tobacco growers, and for on-farm credit, exten-
sion services, construction of curing barns and grading sheds, access roads,
water supplies, a minor expansion of processing facilities and additional
storage. Responsibility for crop development, training and research was
initially vested in Kilimo with the Tanganyika Tobacco Board (the predecessor
of TAT) responsible for crop purchase and marketing. However, shortly after
the Credit was signed. TAT was established (as had been recommended by the
appraisal mission) and took over responsibility for crop development, training,
research and marketing. The Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) was given
responsibility for the extension of credit. The Project became effective in
January 1971.
2.21      The project quickly encountered difficulties.  The settlement of
farmers fell behind schedule as a result of government pressures on farmers
to undertake collective tobacco cultivation and curing. A full review of the
project was carried out in late 1972, and this resulted in recommendations
for the reallocation of the credit to allow for more elaborate village water
supply systems, and for rephasing of physical development and costs. The gov-
ernment also took steps to remedy the situation. Most importantly, it agreed
that the type of cultivation and curing system within each village settlement
would be decided by the settlers themselves. Thereafter, recruitment of
farmers increased markedly.
2.22      By the 1976/77 season, the number of settled farmers was over 11,300,
or 81 percent of the revised estimates. However, only about 7,000 of these
have started growing tobacco (49 percent of revised estimates), and the tobacco
area was only 31 percent of revised estimates. Estimated tobacco yields, at
774 kg/ha, were 5 percent less than estimated, but are some 30 percent higher
than national average smallholder yields. The average quality of tobacco pro-
duced was also higher than the national average. Tobacco production from the
project in 1976/77 is estimated at only 30 percent of the revised estimates,
and is only about 10 percent of total Tanzanian flue-cured tobacco production,
rather than the 47 percent anticipated. Although the amount of tobacco so far
grown is disappointing, the project has established settled farming in an area
of previously largely unoccupied land, and has contributed substantially to
food grain production, with maize production from the tobacco complexes esti-
mated at 15,000 tons in 1976/77. The fact that farmers are settled forms a
base on which to expand tobacco production in the future. TAT is intensifying
its agricultural extension work in the project area, in order to encourage
expanded production. It is anticipated that, over the next few years, produc-
tion from the project should begin to represent an increasingly significant
part of total national production. A mission to prepare a Project Completion
Report visited Tanzania in March 1978.



- 16 -
Tobacco Processing Project (Credit 658-TA)
2.23      An IDA credit of US$8.0 million was approved in September 1976 for
a project including provision for improvement and enlargement of the exist-
ing processing line and installation of a completely new processing line at
Morogoro, construction of new storage facilities and basic infrastructure at
Morogoro, technical assistance and training, and a study of further tobacco
processing investment requirements. Overall responsibility for Project imple-
mentation, including procurement, rests with TAT, which delegates responsibil-
ity for day-to-day Project activities at Morogoro to the Tanzania Tobacco
Processing Company (TTPC), a subsidiary of TAT.
2.24      The credit became effective in February 1977.  Most contracts for
project equipment have already been awarded, and machinery installation com-
menced in November 1977. However, it has become apparent that more additional
storage space will be required than envisaged during appraisal and provided
for under the project. The new processing line will occupy almost twice the
anticipated area, the hand-stripping process has had to be transferred to a
storage area, and the temporary sheds will not remain serviceable after 1980,
as was thought as the time of appraisal. Hence, this proposed Project con-
tains provisioni for the construction of additional storage facilities at
Mc,rogoro (para 4.23).
III. THE TOBACCO AUTHORITY OF TANZANIA
A. Organization and Staffing
3.01      The Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (TAT), which would be is the prin-
cipal entity responsible for organizing and managing the Project, was estab-
lished under the Tobacco Industry Act of 1972, to succeed the Tanganyika
Tobacco Board. The responsibilities and duties of TAT have developed over
time, from the relatively limited involvement of the Tanganyika Tobacco
Board, with exports being marketed through foreign agents, to TAT's present
overall responsibilities for input distribution, crop procurement and sale,
and for the organization and development of smallholder tobacco production.
TAr is the sole owner of the Songea fire-cured tobacco processing factory, and
of the Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company (TTPC), which owns and operates the
Morogoro processing factory. Until July 1977, TAT also had responsibility for
operating the Tiumbi Tobacco Research and Training Station in Tabora Region,
but this is now the responsibility of tne Ministry of Agriculture (Kilimo).
3.02      TAT comes under the direction of Kilimo.  It is headed by a Board
of Directors, comprising nineteen Directors who are appointed by the Minister
of Agriculture. The Board includes the Regional Development Directors of the
three principal tobacco producing regions (Tabora, Iringa and Ruvuma Regions),
representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance and Trade, and a
number of tobacco growers, selected by the Minister of Agriculture. The Board
is chaired by an Executive Chairman, but responsibility for the day to day
operations of TAT rests with the full-time General Manager.



- 17 -
3.03      TAT's present organizational structure is shown in Chart C-1.
TAT's headquarters staff at Morogoro is divided into four functional depart-
ments:
(a) Manpc--<r Develop-ment and Administration Department, with four
divisions, covering Manpower Development, Mechanical Engineering, Procurement
and Administration.
(b) Financial Department, which has two divisions, dealing with
Financial Accounts and Management Accounts.
(c) Marketing Department, with three divisions, responsible for Quality
Control, Tobacco Marketing and Tobacco Classification.
(d) Development and Planning Department, which consists of three divi-
sions. The Development Division is organized into three sections, dealing
with Extension Services, Civil Engineering and Farmers' Inputs. The Planning
Division has two sections, responsible for Production Planning and for Devel-
opment Project Planning. The Technical Services division has two sections,
covering Analysis of Research Data and Farm Systems Development.
3.04      Also at TAT headquarters, an Internal Auditor and his staff report
directly to the General Manager. A Management Committee meets once a month
to assist the General Manager in policy formulation, and comprises the heads
of TAT's Master Workers' Council (a body representing the interests of TAT's
workers) and the secretary of the TAT branch of Tanzania's political party,
the CCM.
3.05      Outside of Morogoro, TAT operates through eight Regional Offices,
each headed by a Regional Manager. The Dar-es-Salaam Regional Office is
concerned with the export of tobacco, and has four sections, dealing with
Administration, Finance, Procurement and Shipping. The other seven regional
offices are located in the major tobacco producing regions, Tabora, Urambo,
Iringa, Rukwa and Mbeya for flue-cured tobacco, Ruvuma Region for fire-cured
tobacco, and an Eastern Zone dealing with burley production in Handeni and
the Morogoro/Bagamoyo area. Each of these regional offices is organized
into four sections, responsible for Administration, Finance, Development and
Marketing. Regions are further subdivided into Districts, each headed by a
District Manager, each District Office having four sections corresponding to
those at the Regional Office.
3.06      TAT's extension service, which comprises over 700 field staff, is
responsible to the Development Division in TAT Headquarters. Each District
is subdivided into Tobacco Areas (of which there are about 80 at present),
each under an Area Manager. Each Area contains, on average, about six
tobacco-producing villages. TAT has, at present, one full-time extension
agent in each village, with two agents in some large villages. Although TAT's
extension staff are fully under TAT's control, they cooperate closely with
the planning and extension staff of the Regional and District administrations
(para 1.10), and it has been agreed by Kilimo and TAT that TAT extension staff
also give extension advice on crops other than tobacco which are being grown
in tobacco-producing villages.



- 18 -
3.07      TAT employs some 1,600 permanent staff.  Of these, about 100 are
at Headquarters, 50 at the Shipping Office, 1,350 (of whom 700 are extension
staff) in the Regions and 100 at the Songea Factory. In addition to this,
the Songea factory normally employs about 1,500 seasonal laborers. TTPC
at Morogoro, a subsidiary of TAT, employs about 3,000 staff of whom about
2,400 are seasonal laborers. TAT has experienced serious organizational and
management probLems in the past, but the situation has improved since the
appointment of a new General Manager in 1975, and a major reorganization in
1976. TAT is still hampered, however, by lack of specialist staff, partic-
ularly in the Finance Department. As a result, there have been delays in
the finalization of TAT accounts, and TAT budgetary and financial control
has been weak. TAT has addressed these problems by recruiting expatriate
accountants for Headquarters, and by the employment of consultants to assist
with the finalization of accounts. TAT is also in the process of retaining
consultants to draw up a comprehensive financial and management accounting
system for TAT, and to assist TAT to put such a system into effect. These
consultants are being partially financed out of IDA Credit 658-TA for the
Tobacco Processing Project (para 2.24) and further assistance would be
provided under this Project (para 4.25).
3.08      In general, TAT's organization and management is capable of imple-
menting the proposed Project, but, in some key areas, TAT would be strengthened
under the Project, as detailed in Chapter V of this report.
B. Finances
3.09      As a Crop Authority under Tanzanian law, TAT is not incorporated,
does not have equity capital in a formal sense, and is not liable for payment
of corporation tax. TAT's financial objective is to cover its costs, and
in addition generate funds for investment. However, TAT has little financial
autonomy. Under the Tobacco Industry Act, power to determine the fees, costs
and prices to be charged or paid by TAT is vested in the Minister of Agricul-
ture although TAT is consulted prior to any changes. At the time of its
forrnation, TAT wals in a strong financial position, with substantial reserves
(whi.ch had been accumulated by its predecessor organization), a high ratio of
current assets to current liabilities, and little long-term debt.  In the year
endi'ng February 28th, 1974 (FY74) TAT achieved an operating surplus of Tsh 22
million. In FY75, TAT recorded an operating deficit of about Tsh I million,
which resulted from the offsetting of a net surplus on tobacco trading and
processing of Tsh 41 million by a level of development expenditure which
exceeded Government contributions by Tsh 36 million, and by fertilizer subsidy
to producers of Tsh 6 million. In FY76 and FY77, TAT recorded net cash sur-
pluses on tobaccco trading and processing of Tsh 6 million and Tsh 12 million
respectively, but was required by Government to subsidize fertilizer sales
by Tsh 33 million in FY76 and Tsh 24 million in FY77. In addition, in FY76
development expenditure by TAT was about Tsh 17 million higher than Government
payments, and in FY77 TAT was instructed by Government to provide a subsidy
to maize producers in tobacco villages. As a result, TAT made overall defi-
cits of Tsh. 34 million and Tsh. 23 million in FY76 and FY77 respectively.



- 19 -
Estimates for FY78 show that a surplus of Tsh 17 million on tobacco trading
and processing is offset by a fertilizer subsidy of Tsh 22 million, and
development expenditures Tsh 20 million in excess of Government contributions.
TAT's consequent net cash deficit for FY78 is therefore in excess of Tsh.25
million.
3.10      TAT's summary income accounts and balance sheets for the period
FY74 to FY78 are given in Tables T-2 and T-3 respectively. As will be noted,
the cumulative effect of the heavy deficits during the years FY76 through
FY78 will result in TAT having a bank overdraft of Tsh. 80 million, and
strongly negative net assets, at the end of FY78 (February 28th, 1978).
3.11      Projections of TAT's financial situation for the years FY79 through
FY82 indicate that, for reasons largely beyond the control of TAT's own man-
agement, TAT cannot act financially as would a prudent commercial organiza-
tion, as required by Government policy, and as reiterated recently to the
Association by the Minister of Agriculture. These projections, summarised
in Table T-4, show that, to meet its development commitments, including con-
tributing to the costs of the Tobacco Processing Project, TAT's bank overdraft
would rise to Tsh. 178 million by the end of FY82, when it would amount to
about 40 percent of gross revenues 1/. In order to rectify this situation,
and to ensure that TAT's financial situation does not become even more pre-
carious as a result of TAT's financial responsibilities under the proposed
Project, this subject was discussed with the Government during negotiations,
and agreement was reached on measures to be adopted by Government to improve
TAT's financial position (para 7.17).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      Experience has shown that Tanzania is able to produce tobacco of
good quality. There is, however, a marked deterioration in the quality of
tobacco from the time it leaves the curing barn until it is processed. In
addition to this loss of quality, a substantial quantity of the crop also
becomes unmarketable. It is estimated that perhaps 25 percent of the value
of smallholder production is lost during tobacco handling, from curing barn
to processing factory. The Tobacco Handling Project would, over a four-year
period, aim to reduce these losses, thereby raising smallholder incomes and
increasing Tanzania's foreign exchange earnings. The Project would also
include some ancillary investments in existing TAT facilities and services.
Specifically, the Project would include provision for:
1/   The projections do not include any provision for additional TAT devel-
opment expenditure other than for the Tobacco Processing Project, or
for TAT assistance to producers through seedling production, which is
presently under discussion in Tanzania.



- 20 -
(a)  the supply of 399,000 polythene bulking bags to smallholder
farmers;
(b)  the construction of 80 grading and baling centers, in villages
prodlucing more than 100,000 kg of cured tobacco annually;
(c)  the construction of 40 strategically-located permanent mar-
keting centers;
(d) the supply to TAT of 80 tractors, 160 trailers, 20 ten-ton
trucks and 16 seven-ton trucks for the movement of tobacco
and tobacco inputs between villages, market centers and
processing factories;
(e)  the supply to TAT of 45 four-wheel drive vehicles for use by
TAT Regional Managers, District Managers and tobacco classifiers,
and 100 90cc motor-cycles for use by TAT Area Managers;
(f)  the provision to TAT of expanded transport maintenance facilities;
(g)  the construction of 2,600 m  of storage warehouses, and ancillary
facilities, at each of Makumbako and Itigi, both important road-
rail junctions;
(h)  master-planning of the development of the Songea tobacco pr
cessing factory, and the subsequent construction of 7,900 m
of tobacco and packing material storage warehouses;
2
(i)  the construction of 11,000 m  of storage warehouses at the
Morogoro Processing factory;
(j)  incremental staff and technical assistance for the Tobacco
Authority of Tanzania (TAT).
4.02      Overall responsibility for Project implementation would be assumed
by TAT, in consort with the appropriate Regional authorities. The Tanzania
Rural Development Bank (TRDB) would administer the seasonal and medium-term
credit to be provided to smallholders and villages under (a) and (b) respec-
tively.
B. Detailed Features
Bulking Bags
4.03      Freshly-cured tobacco is dry and brittle, and has to absorb moisture
from the atmosphere before it is sufficiently pliable to be handled without
damage. The lamina (or leaf) becomes hydrated more quickly thian the mid-rib
(or leaf-stem), and there is a consequent danger that the mid-rib will break



- 21 -
during handling, leading to a downgrading of the leaf. To overcome this
problem, tobacco should, after the lamina has become pliable, be pressed or
bulked, so as to allow moisture to penetrate the mid-rib. On commercial
farms, bulking would be carried out in sheds which provide protection from
the weather. Under present Tanzanian smallholder conditions, however, the
tobacco is stored either in the farmer's house, or in makeshift temporary
storage, where the tobacco is often damaged by rain penetrating inadequately
thatched roofs and by moisture rising from earthen floors in wet weather. It
has been estimated that total losses occurring in this way amount to as much
as 200 kg per hectare of production. In addition to these losses, the quality,
and hence the sales value, of the tobacco is lowered, and the salvaging of
undamaged or partly damaged tobacco requires extensive time and effort.
4.04      Experience with smallholders in Malawi and Zambia has shown that the
use of large polythene bags for the bulking of tobacco enables a considerable
reduction of wastage and improvement of tobacco quality. Provision would be
made under the Project for the supply to smallholder tobacco producers of
polythene bags made from 500 gauge polythene, and of approximate size 2 m by
1.67 m. Each bag would permit the storage of about 30 kg of tobacco. These
bags would be procured by TRDB and made available to farmers on seasonal cred-
it, with the cost, plus interest charges, being deducted from the farmers'
sales receipts, in the same way as for other tobacco inputs. The number of
bags needed by each farmer is dependent on several factors, including produc-
tion, frequency of marketing and the date at which tobacco marketing begins
(which, in turn, depends on the standard of road access to each village). On
average, it is anticipated that each flue-cured tobacco producer would use a
total of six bulking bags, and that each fire-cured tobacco producer would
use five bulking bags. The working life of these bags is estimated to be two
years. It is assumed that farmers would spread their initial purchases of
bulking bags over two years. The introduction of such bags in Malawi and
Zambia proved to be extremely popular with producers, and uptake was rapid.
Financial analysis of bulking bags under Tanzania conditions (para 7.08) in-
dicates that their use by Tanzanian farmers would also be profitable. Accord-
ingly, the number of bags to be financed under the Project has been calculated
on the basis of their use by 50 percent of farmers in the first year of the
Project, by 70 percent in the second year, by 85 percent in the third year,
and by 100 percent in the fourth year. Project costs include the total cost
of bags in the first two years of the Project, and annual incremental costs
during succeeding years.
Grading/Baling Centers
4.05      After tobacco has been cured and bulked, it is graded, which in-
volves the sorting of leaves into uniform lots. 1/ At present, Tanzanian
smallholder tobacco farmers grade their crops on-farm, and bring their to-
bacco to a central baling point when sufficient has been accumulated. Baling
1/   See para 2.08 for a brief description of grading.



- 22 -
is largely conducted in the open air, or in small temporary structures
which have been built by villages or TAT for that purpose. Only villages
established under the IDA-supported Flue-cured Tobacco Production Project
(Credit 217-TA) have well constructed, permanent grading/baling centers.
4.06      There are many disadvantages of grading and baling under present
conditions. The condition of the tobacco deteriorates. Without good natural
lighting, consistent grading is difficult to achieve. Effective supervision
of grading by TAT staff is not possible, and a considerable degree of mixed
grading occurs. This results in a loss to the farmer, since badly-mixed
bales are not accepted by TAT, and moderately mixed bales are priced on the
basis of the lowest grade of tobacco contained. In addition, poorly-baled
tobacco is highly subject to both drying out and shattering, and to damage
from taking up excess moisture during shipping and storage.
4.07      The Project would therefore provide for the construction of village
grading and baling centers in all villages achieving annual production in ex-
cess of 100,000 kg of cured tobacco. Each grading/baling center would provide
space for grading, for baling and for storage of baled tobacco prior to its
transportation to TAT marketing centers. Based on a detailed study of village
production data, it is estimated that 80 villages would qualify for provision
of grading/baling centers during the Project period. Of these villages, it
is estimated that 58 would be in flue-cured tobacco producing areas (30 in
Tabora, 20 in lJrambo and 8 in other areas), and 22 in the fire-cured produc-
tiLon area of Ruvuma. These centers would be of four sizes, with the size
of each center related to village production as follows:
Number Required
Village          Maximum           Over Project
Dimensions        Area         Production       Throughput             Period
15i m x 24 m     360 mi2    100-120 m tons      160 m tons               32
l5 m x 30 m     450 mi2    121-150 m tons       200 m tons               24
15i m x 36 m     540 mi2    151-180 m tons      240 m tons               16
15 m x 42 m      630 m2    181-210 m tons       280 m tons                8
It was agreed at negotiations that these criteria for minimum village produc-
tion, and for relating production to center size, would be applied by TAT.
The size of each center would be sufficient to allow for anticipated expansion
of village production over a period of at least four years, and the design of
the centers would allow for easy expansion later, if necessary to accommodate
increased village production. Construction of these centers would be phased
over the Project period, with 13 planned for the first year, 21 for the second
year, 22 for the third, and 24 for the fourth year.
4.08      These centers would be of a simple design, making maximum possible
use of local materials and would have concrete floors, hardwood roof trusses
and aluminum sheet roofing. The walls would be made of sand-cement blocks,



- 23 -
or other locally available suitable materials, such as stabilized murram.
High-level cross-ventilation would be provided to minimize floor-level
draughts and consequent drying of the tobacco laid out for grading. Good
natural lighting would be provided by translucent sheeting covering about
10 percent of the roof area.   The centers would be constructed by local
village craftsmen and village labor.  The materials cost of each ._nter
would range from Tsh 165,000 (US$20,000) to Tsh 250,000 (US$32,000), depending
on size. The centers would be financed by loans made by TRDB to the villages
involved. The loans would cover the cost of materials, the hiring of village
craftsmen for construction, and the purchase of a tobacco press and baling
boxes. In addition, each center would be equipped by TAT with a dial scale.
TAT would employ architectural consultants to draw up detailed designs, would
assist TRDB in procurring the necessary materials, and would supervise con-
struction through its staff of regional building foremen and building super-
visors. It was agreed during negotiations that TAT and TRDB, in conjunction
with the regional authorities and the villages themselves, would draw up
annual construction programs by December 31st of the year prior to construc-
tion, and would provide such construction programs to the Association for
information not later than January 31st of the year of proposed construction.
Marketing Centers
4.09      TAT has only 18 permanent market centers, mainly in the Tabora and
Urambo regions. Much tobacco classification therefore has to take place in
the open air, and there is a shortage of adequate storage space for tobacco
bales, both before and after classification. As a result, some loss of to-
bacco quality ensues, and the marketing process can be disrupted and delayed
by inclement weather. Analysis of production projections indicates that a
further 40 permanent market centers would be required over the Project period
to ensure that all of the tobacco crop would be classified and stored in
satisfactory market facilities. Accordingly, provision is made under the
Project for the construction of 40 new permanent market centers for TAT. Each
of these centers would have an annual throughput of at least 300,000 kg, which
is probably the minimum level for economic operation of these facilities. The
size of each center would be related to expected throughput as follows:
Initial Annual        Maximum Annual      Number
Dimensions         Area           Throughput            Throughput       Required
15 m x 36 m      540 m2        300-400 m tons          600 m tons           24
15 m x 42 m       630 m2       401-500 m tons          750 m tons           12
15 m x 48 m       720 m2       501-600 m tons          900 m tons            4
4.10      These market centers would be of similar design to the grading
and baling centers (para 4.08), and would be easily expandable to meet in-
creased throughput. Each center would contain a sales area for tobacco
classification, a lockable area for the storage of tobacco bales, and office



- 24 -
accommodation for the Center Manager and other TAT staff. Each center would
be furnished, and equipped with a platform scale, with a vehicle inspection
pit to enable routine maintenance of the vehicles attached to the market
center (para 4.14) and with fuel storage facilities.
4.11     The location of market centers would be according to marketing master
plans for each tobacco producing region, drawn up by TAT, and specifying the
locations and capacity of existing centers, and the location and size of pro-
posed centers, together with data on the villages to be served by each center,
throughput estimates for each center, and data on road conditions and the
proposed deployment of vehicles at each center (para 4.14). These marketing
master plans would form the basis of annual construction programs. It was
agreed during negotiations that the master plans would be submitted to the
Association for comment by December 31st 1978, and that each annual construc-
t-Lon program would be provided to the Association for information not later
than January 3:Lst of the calendar year in which construction would take place.
4.12     It is expected that 18 of the new market centers would be located in
Ruvuma Region, and that the remaining 22 would be in the flue-cured tobacco
producing regions. The market centers would be constructed by contractors.
Provision is maLde for construction of 8 centers in the first year of the
Project, 12 in each of the second and third years, and 8 in the fourth year.
Goods Transport
4.13      The Project would provide for improved transport of tobacco from the
villages to market centers, from market centers to the processing factories
and, in the case of the Songea factory, from the factory to the railhead for
the port of Dar-es-Salaam for export. Reduction of delays in tobacco trans-
port would minimize the risk of deterioration of tobacco quality, and would
in addition enable the acceleration of payment to the farmer. The additional
transport facilities would also improve the delivery of tobacco inputs to the
villages.
4.:L4     Tractors.  For relatively short distances (up to 10 kms) over the
poor roads or tracks typical of tobacco producing areas, tractors are the
most practical form of transport. The Project would provide for the purchase
by TAT of 80 45--HP tractors and 160 high-sided, 6 meter, two-wheeled trailers,
to be stationed at new and existing market centers. The number of tractors
rec[uired has been calculated on the basis of one tractor and two trailers for
each 400,000 kg of market center throughput. On this basis, it is estimated
that the movement of tobacco and tobacco inputs between market center and vil-
lages would utilize these tractors for over 200 days per year. It is esti-
mated that 20 tractors (and 40 trailers) would be deployed in Ruvuma Region,
and the remainder in flue-cured production areas. At present, TAT has such
tractors only in the village supported under the flue-cured Tobacco Produc-
tion Project, and the existence of these tractors has been taken into account
in estimating the needs that would be met under this proposed Project.
4.15      Trucks.  For transport of tobacco and inputs over longer distances,
trucks and rail provide the most economic means of transport. At the present
time, there is a considerable shortage of trucking capacity in Tanzania, as a



- 25 -
result of a decline in the volume of private sector activity. This shortage
of capacity is particularly acute during the main agricultural marketing sea-
son, which runs from May to September, and which is also the period of peak
transportation of tobacco. The Project would provide for the purchase of
20 ten-ton and 16 seven-ton trucks to be used for transport of tobacco from
villages to marKet centers (in areas where villages are distant from market
centers), from market centers to railway or processing factory, and from the
Songea factory to Makumbako, the railhead for the port of Dar-es-Salaam. The
fleet would be used in the reverse direction for the supply of inputs. Ten
of the ten-ton trucks, and 4 of the seven-ton trucks, would be for use in
handling the fire-cured crop, with the remainder used in flue-cured produc-
tion areas. Provision of this transport would, in conjunction with TAT's
existing trucks, give TAT a truck fleet which would have the capacity to meet
TAT's year-round base-load requirements, and 20 to 25 percent of TAT's peak
needs. TAT would rely, for the rest of its transport requirements, on the
private sector and, in the Tabora and Ruvuma Regions, on the public sector
trucking companies which are to be established under the IDA-assisted Truck-
ing Industry Rehabilitation and Improvement Project.
4.16      While the tractors and trucks provided under the Project would be
well utilized for the transportation of tobacco and tobacco inputs, TAT would
be in a position to provide vehicle hire services to other users, at slack
periods. This would particularly apply in the case of tractors, where TAT
would provide transport services to farmers for transport of fuel-wood for
tobacco curing, and water for nurseries. It was agreed during negotiations
that, after June 30, 1979, TAT would provide transport hire services on an
unsubsidized basis, and that the charges made for these services would cover
the full cost of vehicle operation, including provision for depreciation. It
was further agreed that TAT would submit a list of charges to IDA for comment
by April 30, 1979, and would submit a revised list periodically thereafter
updating the charges to reflect cost changes. This provision would advance
and extend a covenant under the Tabora Rural Development Project (Credit
703-TA), whereby transport subsidies on fuelwood for tobacco curing would be
phased out by June 30, 1982.
Personnel Transport
4.17      Transport facilities for TAT Regional staff are inadequate, partic-
ularly in the fire-cured tobacco producing areas. This severely limits the
ability of TAT management to exercise effective control and supervision, and
makes it difficult for tobacco classifiers to establish and maintain a regular
marketing schedule. The Project would provide for the purchase of 45 four-
wheel drive vehicles and 100 90cc motor-cycles. Of the four-wheel drive
vehicles, 7 would be for the use of Regional Managers and their staff, 20
for district Managers, 6 for Area Managers in areas where villages are widely
scattered, 10 for tobacco classifiers and one each for the Buildings Engineer
and the Transport Officer to be recruited under the Project (para 4.24).
The motor-cycles would be for the use of the other TAT Area Managers. TAT's
existing small fleet of personnel transport vehicles, taken over from the
Tanganyika Tobacco Board and from Kilimo, is rapidly becoming unserviceable
and is numerically inadequate.



- 26 -
4.18      It was agreed during negotiations that TAT would maintain, operate
and replace vehicles according to appropriate management practices.
Transport Maintenance Facilities
4.19      In order to operate its transport fleet efficiently, TAT needs the
capability to carry out day-to-day servicing, repairs, preventive maintenance
and vehicle overhauls.  Neither existing TAT facilities nor alternative facil-
ities such as private garages are fully adequate to meet these needs.  The
Project would provide for the construction of a new workshop in Songea (which
would replace the existing temporary facility), for the purchase of seven
mobile workshops for the main tobacco regions, and for the improvement of ex-
isting workshops through the purchase of additional machinery and hand-tools.
Improvements to the Songea factory
4.20      To faLcilitate handling of the increasing throughput of tobacco at
the Songea factory, additional storage facilities are required, for both wet-
leaf and processed tobacco. At present, there is storage available for 200
tons of wet-leaf tobacco, and 45 tons of processed leaf. The present daily
processing capacity of the factory is 30 tons, and this capacity is currently
being expanded to 70 tons per day by the installation of a further drying
line. The volume of storage space currently available is grossly inadequate
in relation to the throughput of the factory, given the unreliability of
transport services, even allowing for the transport components of the Project.
4.21      A master plan for the development of the Songea factory was recently
drawn up by consultants retained by TAT. Unfortunately, this plan would not
form a good basis for development under the Project, since it is inaccurate,
and since the factory layout proposed would not be efficient. The Project
wouild therefore provide for the financing of further consultants to carry
oul: an accurate site survey, and on the basis of this survey, to draw up a
det:ailed master--plan for the development of the factory, with the assistance
of an expert in the field of factory planning. It was agreed at negotiations
that the master-plan for the factory development would be submitted to IDA for
review and approval prior to the issuance of tender documents for construction
at the factory. Once an acceptable master-plan has been drawn up, the Project
would p5ovide for the design by consultants and cons ruction by contractors of
3,600 m of additional wet-leaf storage, and 4,300 m of additional dry leaf
storage and storage for packing materials. After the completion of this
proposed construction, the factory would have sufficient storage capacity for
about 1,400 tons of wet-leaf tobacco and the same quantity of processed
tobacco. This would give a total storage capacity for about 35 percent of the
annual crop forecast for 1982, and this, in conjunction with the improvements
in crop transport proposed under the Project, should enable smooth operation
of the factory.
War.ehouses at Itigi and Makumbako
4.22      In addition to improved transport already referred to above, the
Project would facilitate the movement of flue-cured tobacco from the Chunya
area to Morogoro for' processing through the construction of storage ware-
houses at the Itigi railhead; it would also facilitate the transport of



- 27 -
processed fire-cured tobacco from Songea to Dar-es-Salaam for export by pro-
viding for the construction of warehouse at the Makumbako railhead. These
warehouses would also assist the distribution of tobacco inputs. Both Itigi
and Makumbako are important road-rail junctions, on the East African Railways
Corporation (EARC) system and the Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA)
system, respectively. There are no storage facilities at present at either
of these locations, with the result that goods are transported entirely by
road, at higher cost.  The Project would finance the 2design by consultants2
and the construction by contractors of about 2,600 m of storage and 300 m
of office space at each site, together with ancillary facilities, which, in
the case of Itigi, would include a railway siding. However, at Makumbako,
the railway siding would be constructed jointly by the Government and TAZARA
as part of a program for the development of an industrial area adjacent to
the railway line in Makumbako. Assurances were received during negotiations
that construction of this siding would be completed in parallel with the com-
pletion of the warehouse. The Itigi storage facilities would have a storage
capacity of 800 tonnes of wet-leaf tobacco, and those at Makumbako 1,500
tonnes of processed tobacco.
Storage at Morogoro Factory
4.23      Funds were provided under the Tobacco Pro essing Project (Credit
658-TA) for the construction of a total of 10,700 m of tobacco storage at
TTPC's Morogoro flue-cured tobacco procgssing factory. This additional st r-
age together with the existing 16,900 m  of permanent storage, and 7,500 m
of temporary storage was considered, at appraisal, adequate to meet the
projected needs of the factory until the early 1980's. However, since the
appraisal of the Tobacco Processing Project it has become clear 2hat the
space required for the new processing line will be about 2,700 m larger
than estimated and the area requiied for classification will, by the end
of the Project Period, be 6,650 m larger than estimated. Moreover, it now
appears that the temporary storage sheds which were originally planned to
be retained beyond 1980 will, due to deterioration, require to b2 replaced
during the life of the proposed Project. Approximately 16,000 m of addi-
tional storage is therefore needed to rais2 the quantity of2storage at
Morogoro to the required level of 35,000 m . About 5,000 m of this is to
be constructed under the Tobacco Processing Project, since 5onstruction
costs are less than were estimated. The remaining 11,000 m would be con-
structed under this Project.
Staff and Technical Assistance
4.24      In order to strengthen TAT's ability to implement the Project,
funds would be provided for the employment by TAT of the following staff:
(a) a Building Engineer, who would be responsible for administration
of all TAT contacts with civil works consultants and construc-
tion firms, and 8 additional building supervisors;
(b) Transport Officer, who would be well versed in the operation
and maintenance of a transport fleet in a developing country,



- 28 -
and who would be responsible for implementation of the
transport components of the Project, and for supervising
TAT's vehicle maintenance program;
(c)  Financial Systems Development Accountant, who would assist
TAT's Finance Manager in the design and implementation of
financial and management accounting systems for TAT;
(d)  Five Regional Accountants, who would be posted to the major
tobacco producing regions, to take charge of TAT's Regional
Accounts Departments;
(e) a Procurement Officer.
In view of the shortage of suitable staff in Tanzania, provision has been made
:in the cost estimates for the international recruitment of all these staff,
other than the building supervisors and procurement officer, who would be
Locally recruited.  Housing, and, where appropriate, transport (para 4.17),
would also be provided under the Project. Funds would also be provided for
t:he employment: by TAT of Tanzanian deputies for the Building Engineer and the
T'ransport Officer.
4.25      In addition to the use of consultants for the preparation of the
Songea factory master plan (para 4.21), and to draw up designs for the grad-
ing/baling centers (para 4.08), market centers (para 4.10) and storage facil-
ities (paras. 4.21, 4.22, 4.23) to be constructed under the Project, the
Project would provide for the employment by TAT of consultants to design a
full financial and management accounting system for TAT, and to assist TAT
in the implementation of such a system. The first phase of this study is
being financed under the Tobacco Processing Project (Credit 658-TA), and
provision would be made under this Project for the financing of a second
phase, requiring 12 man-months of consultant services. Provision would also
be made under the Project for TAT to employ the services of the Economic
Research Bureau (ERB) of the University of Dar-es-Salaam to assist in the
evaluation of the impact and effects of the Project (para 5.17). It was
agreed during negotiation that terms of reference for, and proposed con-
tracts with, all consultants financed under the Project would be submitted
to IDA for approval.
4.26      An implementation schedule for the Project is contained in Chart C-2.
C. Project Costs
4.27      The total cost of the Project would be Tsh 171.8 million (US$20.7
million), of which US$9.7 million (47 percent) represents the foreign ex-
change costs. The costs include about Tsh 2.0 million (US$0.25 million) of
taxes and duties, comprising sales tax on bulking bags, and import duty on
trucks and motorcycles. The phasing of Project costs is detailed in Table
T-5, and Project costs are summarized below:



- 29 -
Foreign
Exchange
Component                  Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total            %
---   Tsh '000 --------    -------US$ '000--------
Bulking bags               1,780    4,155       5,935      215       501       716       70
Building construction
Grading/baling centers 14,438    3,610    18,048   1,740            434    2,174        20
Market centers           15,136    3,784    18,920   1,824          456    2,230        20
Warehouses
At Songea                7,076    4,718    11,794        853       568    1,421        40
At Makumbako             2,880    1,920       4,800      347       231       578       40
At Itigi                 3,850    2,566       6,416      464       309       773       40
At Morogoro              8,448    5,632    14,080   1,018          678    1,696        40
Other                     2,600    1,200       3,800      313       145       458       32
Subtotal            55,428   23,430    77,858   6,559    2,821    9,380             30
Vehicles
Goods transport           3,144   18,576    21,720        379    2,238    2,617         81
Personnel transport         540    6,210       6,750       65       748       813       92
Mobile workshops              49      931         980        6      112       118       95
Subtotal              3,733   25,717    29,450        450    3,098    3,548         87
Equipment
Grading/baling centers    212    1,103         1,315       26       133       159       84
Market centers               156      844      1,000        18      102       120       88
Vehicle maintenance          80       720        800        10       86        96       90
Subtotal                448    2,667       3,115       54       321       375       86
Staff and consultants
Technical assistance    1,900    5,700         7,600      229       687       916       75
Local staff                 620         -        620       75         -        75        -
Consultant services       1,410       990      2,400      170       119       289       40
Subtotal              3,930    6,690    10,620        474       806    1,280        64
Base cost estimate        64,319   62,659   126,978   7,752    7,547   15,335            50
Contingencies
Physical contingencies  6,814    3,062         9,876      821       369    1,190        31
Price contingencies    20,256   14,669    34,925   2,440    1,767    4,207              42
Total Project Cost        91,389   80,390   171,779  11,013    9,683   20,732            47
Total Project Cost,
net of taxes & duties  89,389   80,390   169,779  10,770    9,683   20,453



- 30 -
Project base costs have been estimated at January 1978 prices. Physical con-
tingencies of 15 percent have been included on warehouses, market centers,
houses and garage, and at 5 percent on grading/baling centers. Price con-
tingencies have been included on bulking bags, vehicles, equipment and staff
and consultant costs at annual rates of 7 percent for 1978, 6.5 percent for
1979 and 6.0 percent for 1980 and succeeding years. For construction, price
contingencies have been included at annual rates of 12 percent in 1978, 11
percent in 1979, 10 percent in 1980, 9 percent in 1981 and 8 percent in 1982.
These rates reilect the effects of institutional problems in the building
sector and pressure on construction industry capacity, problems which are
expected to reduce over time. Price contingencies total 28 percent of Proj-
ec:t base costs.
D.  Financing
4.28       The financing of Project costs net of taxes and duties would be as
follows:
US$ million           %
IDA                                         14.0               68
Government of Tanzania                       6.5               32
20.5              100
The proposed IDA credit of US$14.0 million would be on standard terms to the
Government of Tanzania, and would cover all the foreign exchange costs of the
Project (US$9.7 million) and 40 percent of local costs, or about 68 percent
of total Project costs.  The Government would provide the remaining US$6.5
mi].lion, net of taxes and duties.
4.29       Credit funds and Government contributions for the purchase of bulk-
ing bags (Tsh. 6.6 million, including contingencies), and for the construction
of village grading and baling centers (Tsh. 26.3 million, including contin-
gencies) would be lent by Government to the Tanzania Rural Development Bank
(TRDB) for a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace at an interest
rate of 4 percent. TRDB would onlend the funds for grading/baling centers to
villages at an interest rate of 8-1/2 percent for a period of 8 years (includ-
ing a one-year grace period) in the case of flue-cured tobacco producing
villages, and 12 years (including a one-year grace period) for fire-cured
tobacco producing villages. 1/ This interest rate would be in line with
interest rates being charged to villages for comparable items under other
IDA-financed projects, including the National Maize Project (Credit 606-TA)
1/   The different payment periods reflect the different economics of flue-
cured tobacco and fire-cured tobacco production (para 7.09, 7.10).



- 31 -
and the Fisheries Project (Credit 652-TA). In the case of bulking bags, funds
would be lent to producers at 8-1/2 percent which is TRDB's current interest
rate on seasonal finance. These terms and conditions were agreed at negotia-
tions. Credit funds and Government contributions for goods transport vehicles,
technical assistance and incremental local staff (Tsh. 34.8 millicn including
contingencies) would be lent by the Government to TAT for a period of ten
years, including five years of grace, at an interest rate of 10 percent, which
is the current rate of borrowing by parastatals. These terms and conditions
were agreed during negotiations. The remainder of credit funds and Government
contributions (Tsh. 104.1 million, including contingencies), which would be
used for construction, equipment, personnel transport vehicles and consultant
services, would be channelled by Government to TAT in the form of equity.
Completion of on-lending agreements, in a form satisfactory to the Association,
between the Government and TRDB, and between the Government and TAT would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
4.30      To ensure that the storage facilities at the Songea factory, and
at Itigi and Makumbako, would be completed prior to the start of the 1980/81
marketing season, the Association has urged TAT to enter into contracts, prior
to Board presentation, for the master-planning of the Songea factory, for the
design of the storage facilities at Itigi and Makumbako and for the employ-
ment of a Building Engineer. It is recommended that part of the costs of
those contracts, incurred after February 1, 1978, be financed retroactively
out of the proposed credit. In addition, to permit TAT to proceed rapidly
with the procurement of vehicles and equipment needed early in the Project,
it is recommended that part of the cost of such procurement incurred after
February 1978 be retroactively financed out of the Credit.  The maximum sums
likely to be involved are:
Total       Potential Retro-
Contracts      active Financing
---        -u$-----USs 
(a) Preparation of Songea factory
master-plan                                  61,000            52,000
(b)  Design of Makumbako warehouse                 53,000            32,000
(c)  Design of Itigi warehouse                     71,000            43,000
(d)  Employment of Building Engineer               20,000            16,000
(e)  Procurement of vehicles and equipment         65,000            57,000
270,000           200,000
E. Procurement
4.31      Procurement under the credit would be in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines. Specifically:



- 32 -
(a)  Orders for new vehicles (including mobile workshops) and
associated spare parts (US$3.5 million) 1/ and equipment
(US$0.4 million) would be bulked as far as practicable,
and orders of US$100,000 and above would be procured by
TAT through international competitive bidding (ICB) from
suppliers who maintain (or agree to maintain) in Tanzania
an adequate after sales service and inventory of spare parts;
(b) Orders for bulking bags (US$0.7 million) would be bulked
as far as practicable and orders of US$100,000 or above
would be procured by TRDB through ICB;
(c) Orders for goods and vehicles below US$100,000 would be
procured in accordance with existing procedures which
are satisfactory.
(d)  construction of market centers (US$2.3 million) storage
facilities (US$4.9 million) and housing and workshops
(US$0.5 million) would be too small and scattered to
attract international interest. Procurement would there-
fore be by contracts awarded following locally advertised
bidding, although foreign firms would be entitled to com-
pete;
(e)  materials to be used in the construction of village grading
and baling centers would be procured by TAT on the basis
of local competitive bidding.
Draft tender documents for all contracts expected to cost in excess of
US$100,000 would be submitted to the Bank for approval before invitations
are issued, and bid analysis and recommendation for award would be submitted
to the Bank for comment before contracts would be awarded. In the evaluation
of bids for (a) and (b) above, bonafide domestic manufacturers would be
accorded a reference of 15 percent or the existing rate of duty, whichever
is lower. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the procurement
procedures outlined above would be followed.
F. Disbursements
4.32      Disbursements of funds from the credit would be on the following
basis:
(a) 100 percent of the incremental cost of purchases of
bulking bags (US$0.3 million);
1/   All figures quoted in this paragraph exclude contingencies.



- 33 -
(b) 60 percent of TRDB loans to villages for the construction
of village grading/baling centers (US$1.3 million);
(c) 57 percent of the total cost of all other buildings, in-
cluding houses and workshops (including design and con-
struction supervision costs) (US$4.1 million);
(d) 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of vehicles and
equipment (including mobile workshops) and 85 percent of
local costs when purchased locally (US$3.5 million);
(e) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost and 80 percent
of the local cost of technical assistance and consultants
(US$0.8 million);
(f) an unallocated amount of US$4.0 million, representing con-
tingencies on the above categories, and transferable to
them as required.
4.33      All disbursements except those under (b) would be fully documented.
Disbursements under (b) would be against certificates of expenditure signed
by the General Manager of TRDB, with supporting documents being retained for
inspection by supervision missions. The Borrower would make arrangements
satisfactory to IDA for the audit of expenditures involving disbursement
under (b). Any funds remaining in the Credit at Project completion would be
available for reallocation to Project-related expenditure at the discretion
of the Association. Project related expenditures for planning and design
work at Songea, Itigi and Makumbako, and for purchase of vehicles and equipment,
incurred after February 1, 1978, would be eligible for retroactive financing
up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000. A schedule showing the estimated
patterns of disbursement of credit funds is contained in Table T-6.
G. Accounts and Audits
4.34      Separate accounts relating to the income and expenditure of the
Project would be kept by TAT and by TRDB.   Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that accounts maintained by TAT and TRDB would be audited by
the Tanzania Audit Corporation, who are independent auditors acceptable to
the Association, within six months of the end of each financial year. At
present, TRDB accounts are up-to-date. However, TAT accounts are in arrears,
although the situation is expected to improve as a result of the employment
by TAT of consultants to design and implement improved financial systems.
During negotiations, assurances were received that the post of TAT Financial
Manager would continue to be filled, during the period of Credit disbursement,
by a suitably qualified person.



- 34 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Management and Staffing
5.01      The Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (TAT), would have overall respon-
sibility for the implementation of the Project. The Tanzania Rural Develop-
ment Bank (TRDB) (para 1.20) would have specific responsibility under the
Project for the administration of seasonal input credit for bulking bags
and of long-term credit for the construction of grading and baling centers.
TRD]3 is a well-established and experienced organization which is well-known
to the Association through its involvement in previous IDA-financed agricul-
tural projects. It would be able to handle its responsibilities under the
Project without further strengthening.
5.02      Day-to--day responsibility for the Project would rest with the
Head of TAT's Development and Planning Department, who reports directly to
the General Manager of TAT. The capacity of TAT to manage the Project would
be strengthened by the appointment of a Building Engineer (who would be
assigned to the Civil Works section of the Development Division of TAT's,
Planning and Development Department), and a Transport Officer (who would be
assigned to the T'ransportation section of the Mechanical Engineering Division
of TAT's Manpower Development and Administration Department). Provision would
also be made for the employment by TAT of qualified Tanzanian deputies for
these posts. It was agreed during negotiations that appointment of a Building
Engineer, after prior consultation with IDA on qualifications and experience,
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit. The ability
of TAT to carry out the proposed program of grading/baling and market center
construction would be further strengthened by the employment of eight addi-
tional Building Supervisors, who would work under the direction of TAT's
existing staff of Regional Building Foremen.
5.03      It was agreed at negotiations that IDA would be consulted, prior
to appointment, about the suitability of the Transport Officer, in terms of
qualifications and experience, and that the appointment of this Transport
Officer would be a condition of disbursement of funds from the Credit for the
transport component of the Project.
5.04      It is envisaged that the Financial Systems Development Accountant
and five Regional Accountants financed under the Project to strengthen TAT's
accounting and financial control capability, would need to be internationally
recruited, taking into account the shortage of suitable local candidates.
During negotiations, it was agreed that these staff would be recruited by
April 1, 1979, and that IDA would be consulted, prior to appointment, about
the suitability of the qualifications and experience of candidates for these
posts.
5.05      It was further agreed at negotiations that, during the period of
disbursements of the proposed Credit, IDA would be consulted prior to the
appo:intment of successor staff to the posts of Building Engineer, Transport



- 35 -
Officer, Financial Systems Development Accountant and Regional Accountants.
In the case of internationally recruited staff, during negotiations it was
agreed that such staff be employed under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
B. Reporting
5.06      Detailed quarterly progress reports of physical progress and the use
of funds under the Project would be prepared by the Development and Planning
Department Head (with some input from TRDB) for the General Manager and Board
of TAT, and for the Association. Particular attention would be paid in the
reports to:
(a) the progress of the Project's program for construction of
grading/baling centers, market centers, storage warehouses,
maintenance facilities and staffing housing; progress in
the procurement of Project-financed vehicles and equipment;
and the uptake of bulking bags by smallholder producers;
(b) the use and repayment of credit, and TRDB progress in
assessing the credit-worthiness of villages for long-
term credit for grading/baling centers;
(c) progress in the recruitment of Project-financed staff, both
locally and internationally recruited;
(d) the throughput of Project-financed grading/baling centers,
market centers and storage godowns;
(e) the utilization of the vehicles financed under the Project
in terms of operating hours for the tractors, and kilometers
travelled for the trucks and other vehicles; and
(f) to be put the above into context, information on plantings,
TAT purchases and sales and input use.
Agreement on detailed progress reporting requirements was reached with TAT and
TRDB during negotiations, in such a way as to avoid unnecessary duplication
of reporting requirements under the ongoing Tobacco Processing Project.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.07      During the course of the Project, TAT would engage the services
of the Economic Research Bureau (ERB) of the University of Dar-es-Salaam
to assist in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project. The staffing of
the ERB is adequate to enable this task to be undertaken without additional



- 36 -
strengthening. The ERB would carry out statistical analysis on village pro-
duction data (tobacco area cultivated, marketed production, average producer
price) and the incidence of Project investments, to attempt to assess the
impact of the various Project components on marketed production, based on
the detailed records of village production which TAT maintains, and has
maintained, since the 1975/76 production season. This statistical analysis
of production data would, if necessary, be supplemented, towards the end of
the Project period, by case studies carried out in a number of villages, to
investigate in more depth the effects of the Project. At the end of each
crop year, ERB would provide TAT and the Association with a summary report
of its findings and, at the end of the disbursement period, ERB would pre-
pare a detailed final report. In accordance with the provisions of para.
4.25, terms of reference for the study, agreed by TAT and ERB, would be sub-
mitted to IDA Eor approval, together with a proposed contract.
5.08      After completion of disbursements, TAT would prepare using the
findings of the ERB evaluation study, a Project completion report, analyzing
the implementation of the Project, and its impact in relation to its objec-
t:ives. At negotiations, assurances were received that TAT would prepare such
a report, in consultation with the Association, and would submit it to the
Association within three months of the completion of disbursements.
VI. TOBACCO MARKETS AND PRICES PROSPECTS
A. The World Market
6.01      Processed tobacco leaf is an extremely heterogeneous commodity.
Differing environments make for varied types of tobacco leaf which, when
combined with different methods of harvesting, curing and processing, result
in a vast range of marketed leaf types. Customarily, the processed tobacco
le!af is classified according to the method of curing or by end-use. The
major categories are:
Tobacco Category                  Share of World Production
(Percent)
Flue-cured                                   43
Burley (light air-cured)                      10
Other light air cured                          7
Oriental                                      16
Sun-cured                                      1
Dark air-cured                               22
Fire-cured                                     1
Cigar wrapper and binder leaf                  1
Tobacco sheet or homogenized leaf              1



- 37 -
6.02      Flue cured tobacco has in recent years enlarged its share of total
tobacco production, mostly at the expense of the darker tobaccos. Thus, while
between 1960 and 1974, production and consumption of all tobaccos grew at an
annual rate of 1.8 percent, flue cured leaf sales grew at 2.4 percent, the
fastest of any tobacco type. In the case of fire-cured tobacco, the annual
growth rate of production over the period 1966-74 averaged 0.5 percent.
6.03      Production of tobacco leaf is projected to grow at an average annual
rate of 2.3 percent between 1972-74 and 1985. Production is expected to reach
6.6 million tons in 1985, and to remain more or less in balance with demand.
The greater part of the increase in production is expected to occur in the
developing countries, largely but not entirely to meet growing domestic de-
mands. The centrally planned economies are expected to retain their share
in world output, while the share of developed countries will continue to de-
cline. The shift from dark to light tobaccos has been one of the most sig-
nificant developments in tobacco production in recent years. This trend is
expected to continue, with future production increases primarily coming in
flue cured tobacco and burley leaf. The market share of oriental tobacco
will remain unchanged, while that of dark tobacco (including fire-cured leaf)
is expected to continue to decline.
6.04      Prices for all tobacco types are expected to remain firm.  The
close balance between projected supply and demand is expected to result in
real prices rising slightly, with some narrowing of regional differentials
as developing country producers succeed in producing tobacco of the requi-
site quality. Details of past prices and price forecasts for a represen-
tative tobacco (Indian flue-cured leaf) are given below:
Projected Export Unit Value of Flue Cured Tobacco
(US$ per Metric Ton)
Calendar Year
A.   Actual                      Current Prices           Constant 1977 Prices 2/
1973                              992                       1,499
1974                            1,280                       1,578
1975                            1,517                       1,656
1976 1/                         1,304                       1,402
B.   Forecast
1977                            1,500                       1,500
1978                            1,655                       1,532
1979                            1,837                       1,582
1980                            1,980                       1,593
1985                            3,062                       1,757
1/   Partly estimated.
2/   Deflated by the World Bank Economic Analysis and Projections Department
Index of International Inflation (1977=100).



- 38 -
B. The Market for Tanzanian Tobacco
6.05      The domestic Tanzanian market currently takes about 3.5 million kg
annually of locally produced tobacco. It is anticipated that the growth of
local consumption will be constrained by increases in excise duty, so that
local demand will remain broadly constant over the Project period, and that
increased production would therefore be exported. Below are tabulated the
levels of tobacco production, local consumption and export in recent years,
ancl their projected levels in the future:
TanzaniaLn Tobacco Production, Local Consumption and Export I/
(million kg., processed tobacco)
1974/75 2/ 1975/76 2/ 1976/77 3/ 1977/78 4/ 1980/81 4/ 1985/86 4/
Production 5/  13.7        12.2        16.7       15.6        20.2        28.1
Local
consumption    2.3         3.7         3.4        3.4         3.4         3.4
Exports         11.4        8.5        13.3       12.2        16.8        24.7
1/   All types of tobacco.  Production figures are from para. 2.19, after
allowing for processing losses.
2/   Actual.
3/   Partly estiimated.
4/   Projected.
5/   The tobacco is grown in the previous year.
6.06      Tanzanian tobacco is already well established in the United Kingdom
(which takes over 35 percent of Tanzania's exports), and receives duty prefer-
ences there. Tanzania also has expanding markets in the EEC, where it has
associate status, giving duty-free access to the EEC market, resulting in
a price advantage of about 15 percent over tobacco from non-associates.
Tanzania's major markets in the EEC are the Netherlands, Belgium and Ireland,
which together take about 60 percent of total Tanzanian tobacco exports.
For neither flue-cured nor fire-cured tobacco does it appear that the recent
closing of the Kenyan border, even if permanent, will appreciably affect
Tanzania's market; prospects.
6.07      Total l'anzanian production of flue-cured tobacco is at present
less than one percent of total world production, and Tanzanian exports are
less than one percent of total world exports.  Increased Tanzanian produc-
tion of flue-cured tobacco on the scale expected is therefore unlikely to
have an appreciable effect on world market prices, and the market outlook
for increased Tanzanian exports of flue cured is good. Even if sanctions
on Rhodesian exports are lifted, and notwithstanding the recent streamlining
of Rhodesia's tobacco industry, the outlook for increased Tanzanian exports
remains encouraging because manufacturers are unlikely to return to their
former reliance on a single supplier, and because Rhodesia will no longer
enjoy a clear cost advantage.



- 39 -
6.08      The position in regard to fire-cured tobacco is somewhat different.
Present Tanzanian production is around 7 percent of world production, and pres-
ent production projections for Tanzania imply that Tanzania's share of world
production will grow over the next decade, to about 13 percent. In recent
years, the production of fire-cured tobacco in developed countries has been
declining, by 0.8 percent per year in develped countries taken as a whole, and
by 2.7 percent in the United States, the single largest producer. This trend
is expected to continue thus, although future demand for fire-cured will not
be as buoyant as for flue-cured, in view of low Tanzanian labor costs and the
declining competitiveness of developed country producers, Tanzania should not
encounter market constraints to increased fire-cured production.
Tobacco Sales Prices
6.09      TAT's sales prices for both flue-cured and fire-cured tobacco have
risen over the past few years (para 2.18). On the reasonable assumption that
Tanzanian flue-cured tobacco retains its present price relationship with the
Indian flue-cured tobacco used as the basis for the projections of world ex-
port prices (para 6.07), it can be expected that the average TAT selling price
for flue-cured tobacco would increase by 2 percent per annum, in constant
prices, over the period from 1978 to 1985. Thereafter, a constant real price
is assumed. For fire-cured tobacco, given the less favorable market situation,
the export price is expected to remain constant in real terms. On this basis,
TAT export sales prices for tobacco would be:
Projected TAT Export Sales Prices 1/
(Tsh per kilogram)
1984/85
Year: 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81 1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 Onwards
Flue-cured tobacco
Processed tobacco         19.58   19.97   20.37   20.78   21.20   21.62   22.05
Wet-leaf basis 2/          17.03   17.37   17.72   18.07   18.43   18.80   19.17
Fire-cured tobacco
Processed tobacco         13.80   13.80   13.80   13.80   13.80   13.80   13.80
Wet-leaf basis 2/          12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00
1/   In constant 1978 prices, f.o.b. Dar-es-Salaam.
2/   On the basis of a 15% weight loss during processing.
Tobacco Producer Prices
6.10      In view of the anticipated rising real price of flue-cured tobacco,
it is expected that producer prices for flue-cured tobacco would also rise, in
real terms, over the period until 1984/85, and that fire-cured tobacco producer
prices would remain constant in real terms. Details are given below of pro-
jected farm-gate producer prices, and of the relationship between these prices,
marketing costs and projected TAT sales prices for tobacco.



- 40 -
Projected Tobacco Producer Prices 1/
(Tsh per kilogram, wet leaf basis)
Flue-cured Tobacco                       Fire-cured
1978/79 1979/80 1980/81 1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 All Years
TAT sales price      17.03  .17.37   17.72   18.07   18.43   18.80   19.17    12.00
less-sales tax 2/   2.13    2.17    2.22    2.26    2.30    2.35    2.40           1.50
- processed
tobacco costs 3/ 2.17    2.17    2.17    2.17    2.17    2.17    2.17           0.93
- wet-leaf mar-
keting costs 4/  1.40    1.40    1.40    1.40    1.40    1.40    1.40           1.47
- contribution to
TAT overheads    3.24    3.38    3.51    3.65    3.80    3.94    4.08           2.90
Producer Price        8.09    8.25    8.42    8.59    8.76    8.94    9.12          5.20
1/   In constant 1978 prices.
2/   At a rate of 12.5 percent ad valorem on TAT sales.
3/ Processing costs and packing, storage and transport costs for processed tobacco.
4/   Costs of purchase, storage, handling and transport of wet-leaf tobacco.
These producer prices imply net returns to labor of about Tsh. 5 per manday,
which is roughly iin line with returns to other cash crops (cotton gives Tsh.
4.3 per manday) and maize (Tsh. 5.3 per manday).
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Project Benefits
Nature of Benefits
7.01      The following benefits would be realized as a result of the Project:
(a)  there would be an increase in the volume of marketed tobacco
production, as a result of a reduction in the level of physical
losses now incurred during handling and storage;
(b)  there woiuld be an increase in the quality (and hence in the
average sales value) of the marketed tobacco crop, as a result
of a reduction in the degree of deterioration of tobacco during
handling, marketing and storage;
(c)  there would be a reduction in the cost of transporting tobacco,
as a result of the greater use of rail transport that would be
made possible by the construction of storage warehouses at
Itigi and Makumbako;



- 41 -
(d) the provision of incremental transport and storage facilities
would enable a more even flow of tobacco through the marketing
system (which should reduce costs) and improved delivery of
tobacco inputs (which should result in more timely planting
of tob9cco); and
(e) there would be an improvement in the quality of marketing and
extension services provided by TAT, as a result of improved
transport facilities for TAT field staff, and this should be
effected in improved output quantity and quality.
Magnitude of Benefits
7.02      Only the first three of these benefits are quantifiable.  There are
no "hard" data available on the incidence of losses in quantity or of quality
of leaf under present storage conditions. In evaluating the benefits of the
Project, the following conservative assumptions have been made, based on
estimates of benefits made by experienced tobacco production and marketing
specialists, following a review of the Tanzanian situation:
(a)  the use by smallholders of bulking bags would result in an in-
crease of 5 percent in the volume of tobacco marketed, and an
increase of 2 percent in the average value of marketed production;
(b) the use by a village of a grading/baling centre would raise by 3
percent the volume of marketed production from that village, and
would raise the average value of marketed production by 2 percent;
(c) improvement of the marketing system by the construction of addi-
tional permanent marketing centers, and the improvement of trans-
port facilities, would result in savings equal to 4 percent of
marketed production, and an increase in crop value of 2 percent;
(d) the construction of storage warehouses would result in quantitative
savings equal to 4 percent of marketed production. These savings
have only been assumed for that proportion of the crop which,
without the Project, would not have been placed in good storage.
(e) the construction of storage warehouses at Itigi and Makumbako would
result in cost savings as a result of the substitution of rail trans-
port for more costly road transport of tobacco and tobacco inputs.
Based on reasonable assumptions about truck and rail costs, and back-
loads, these transport cost savings are estimated at about Tsh. 300
on each ton of tobacco and tobacco inputs routed through these ware-
houses. Details of these cost savings are given in Table T-7.
7.03      The estimates of the benefits of grading/baling centers (para 7.02
(b)) and improvements in the marketing system (para 7.02(c)) are supported
by the experience of the Flue-cured Tobacco Production Project, under which
some of the Project complexes now have village grading/baling centers, and



- 42 -
improved marketing facilities.  In 1976/77, marketed yields from Project
complexes were about 30 percent higher than average smallholder yields, and
average producer prices were about 11 percent higher than the national small-
holder average. While it cannot be claimed that all of these benefits result
from grading/baLling centers and market system improvements (since other
factors, such aLs a more intensive than average extension service, are also at
wcrk), these figures are an indication that the levels of benefits stated in
para 7.02 are reasonable.
7.04      The overall impact of the Project in terms of incremental marketed
production and increased sales value is detailed in Table T-8, and summarized
below:
Flue-cured tobacco                  Fire-cured tobacco
Incremental  Increased   Gross           Incremental  Increased    Gross
Marketed      Crop         Value of      Marketed      Crop           Value of
Crop             Production   Value         both          Production   Value           both
Season                                      Increases                                  Increases
(m tons)      (%) 1/      (Tsh '000) 2/  (m tons)    (%) 1/         (Tsh'000) 2/
1978/79             193         0.46          4,603            50         0.46             915
1979/80             5910        1.46         14,813           199         1.64           3,588
1980/81           1,07:3        2.44         27,358           588         3.10           9,516
1981/82           1,81(         3.47         44,536           771         4.20          12,780
1982/83           2,305         3.92         56,059           900         4.82          15,138
1983/84           2,535         3.96         62,657           965         4.84          16,243
1984/85           2,733         3.98         68,934        1,030          4.84          17,350
1985/86           2,920         3.98         73,701        1,109          4.86          18,667
1986/87           3,098         3.92         77,929         1,185         4.80          19,805
1987/88           3,27-3        3.84         80,654        1,251          4.78          20,656
1/   As percentage of national crop value.
2/   Valu,ed at TAT sales price.
7.05      Incremental marketed production of flue-cured tobacco would amount
to about 10 percent of the marketed crop by the fifth year of the Project
(1982/83). Incremental marketed production of fire-cured tobacco would
reach 13 percent of the marketed crop by 1982/83.
Beneficiaries
7.06      The benefits of the Project would accrue to the tobacco growers, in
the form of higher levels of marketed production and crop value, and to TAT
through lower costs as a result of reduced qualitative and quantitative losses
of tobacco after purchase by TAT, and reduced transport costs. Ultimately,
TAT's increased profits could be appropriated by Government for investment
elsewhere, or could be returned to tobacco growers, either through a higher
level of producer prices, or by further investments in the provision of ser-
vices to tobacco growers.



- 43 -
7.07      Under the Project, all tobacco growers would benefit from the in-
troduction of bulking bags. This component of the Project would, therefore,
benefit about 70,000 families comprising about 350,000 members. In addition,
the grading/baling centres to be constructed under the Project would benefit
about 48,000 families, and improvements in the market system would affect,
by the tenth year of the Project, about 40,000 fire-cured tobacco producers,
and a similar number of flue-cured producers. Average net cash returns from
tobacco (representing returns to land and family labor) amount to about Tsh.
1400 (US$170) per family for flue-cured tobacco families, and Tsh. 813 (US$98)
for fire-cured tobacco producers (Table T-9). In addition to the production
of tobacco, families also produce maize for home consumption and for market,
and other crops (cassava, beans, etc) for subsistence. Typically, a tobacco-
producing family might grow two hectares of maize and other crops, achieving
net returns of about Tsh. 600 per hectare. Thus, total farm returns, from
tobacco and other crops are, on average, about Tsh. 2,600 (US$313) for flue-
cured tobacco growers, and Tsh. 2,030 (US$245) for fire-cured tobacco growers.
These figures imply per capita incomes of US$60 and US$46 respectively. The
absolute poverty level for rural Tanzania is put at US$73, so that the bulk
of tobacco growers are below this level.
B. Effects on Farmer Returns
Bulking bags
7.08      An analysis of crop budget data for the average flue-cured and
fired-cured smallholder tobacco producer is presented in Table T-9. Adoption
of the use of bulking bags would result in an increase in annual net returns
of about T.Sh. 121 for flue-cured tobacco growers, and T.Sh. 51 for fire-cured
producers. These incremental net returns would be equivalent to increases in
current net income from tobacco production of 9 percent and 8 percent, for
average flue-cured and fire-cured tobacco producers, respectively. The bene-
fit/cost ratio for the adoption of bulking bags would be 3.6:1 for flue-cured
and 2.3:1 for fire-cured. These anticipated incremental net returns are high
enough to justify the expectation of widespread adoption by farmers of the
use of bulking bags.
Village grading/baling centres
7.09      Financial analysis (in current price terms) of a typical village
grading/baling centre for flue-cured tobacco is presented in Table T-l0. The
financial rate of return on such a centre would be 48 percent. In order to
pay the interest and principal on the loan from TRDB, and to maintain the
centre, the village would appropriate some of the incremental income of
tobacco producers benefitting from the grading/baling centre, by means of a
cess levied on the proceeds of tobacco sale. For illustrative purposes, it
is assumed in Table T-10 that the village would levy a flat-rate cess of Tsh.
0.60 per kilogram of tobacco sold by village producers. (Such an approach is
presently in effect in some tobacco villages, which levy a cess on producers
to finance capital investments. A similar approach has been adopted in the



- 44 -
Kigoma Rural Development Project.) In the first year this cess is payable, it
would amount to about 5 percent of the producer price. A cess at this level
would allow the village to maintain the centre, to pay interest on the TRDB
loan, to repay the loan over an eight-year period and to accumulate Tsh.
740,900 1/ by the end of the fifteenth year of operation of the centre. After
paying this level of cess, increased income per farmer would rise from Tsh. 67
in the second year of operation, to Tsh. 132 in the fifth year and to Tsh. 280
in the tenth year, all in current price terms. In constant 1978 prices, these
figures would be Tsh. 48, Tsh. 77 and Tsh. 116 respectively.
7.10      For a typical fire-cured tobacco village grading/baling centre,
financial analysis is given in Table T-ll. The financial rate of return on
such a centre would be 32 percent. In order to maintain the centre, service
and repay the TRDB loan, it is assumed that the village would levy a flat-
rate cess of Tsh. 0.50 per kilogram of tobacco sold by village producers.
In the first year that this cess is payable, it would amount to about 7 per-
cent of the producer price.  A cess at this level would allow the village,
after paying for maintenance of the centre, servicing and repaying the TRDB
loan, to accumulate Tsh. 478,000 1/ by the end of the fifteenth year of oper-
ation of the grading/baling centre. For producers, after payment of the
cess, incremental income per producer would amount to Tsh. 44 in the fifth
year of centre operation, and Tsh. 121 in the tenth year, in current prices.
In constant 1978 prices incremental income per producer would be Tsh. 25 in
the fifth year, and Tsh. 50 in the tenth year.
7.11      It is clear that the benefits of grading/baling centres are higher
foIr flue-cured producing villages than for fire-cured producing, and thus
thet construction of grading/baling centres would be more attractive to flue-
cured producing villages. However, even in the case of fire-cured tobacco
villages, the benefits are sufficient to make such an investment attractive.
Market system improvements
7.12      The impact of benefits from Project-financed improvements in the
flue-cured tobacco marketing system would vary widely from village to village,
since some villages are already well served (and hence would receive no in-
cremental benefits under the Project) while others at present receive poor
marketing services, which would be considerably improved under the Project.
It is estimated that about 40,000 flue-cured tobacco producing families would
benefit from improved marketing services by the end of the Project period and
that, for these families, the average benefit would be Tsh. 172 annually.
In the case of fire-cured tobacco, all producers would benefit to some degree,
since no permanent market centres at present exist for fire-cured tobacco.
By the fifth year of the Project, about 28,500 fire-cured farmers would be
benefitting from Project-financed improvements in the tobacco marketing sys-
tem, receiving an estimated annual increase in returns from tobacco of the
order of Tsh. 60 per family.
1/   Such accumulations would not arise if the loans were serviced by cesses
which reduced over time.



- 45 -
C. Financial Effects on TRDB
7.14      Table T-12 shows the effects of the Project on TRDB's cash flow.
With the proposed financing terms for the Project (para. 4.30), the Project
would have a positive effect on TRDB's finances for the first eleven years of
the Project, with a cumulative positive cash flow over those eleven years of
Tsh. 16.2 million. Thereafter, the effects of the Project on TRDB's cash flow
would be increasingly negative, but at the end of year 16 (by which time all
long-term loans would be repaid to TRDB) the Project would still show a cumu-
lative positive cash flow for TRDB of Tsh. 12.6 million. After 20 years, by
which time TRDB would have repaid its loan to Government, the Project would
show a cumulative positive cash flow for TRDB of Tsh 5.2 million. This cash-
flow is positive because TRDB's incremental administrative costs would be
negligible. The surplus would provide ample allowance for delays in loan
repayment or bad debts.
D. Financial Effects on TAT
7.15      In addition to the Project's capital costs (para. 4.27), Project
im plementation would also give rise to incremental recurrent expenditures
which would be incurred by TAT during and after the four-year disbursement
period for the proposed IDA credit. These recurrent costs, which are de-
tailed in Table T-13, would reach Tsh. 9.8 million (in constant 1978 prices)
in the fifth year of the Project, 1983/84. These recurrent costs would be
met by TAT out of its trading margin on tobacco, in the same way as other
TAT recurrent costs.
7.16      The overall incremental effects of the Project on TAT's cash flow
are shown in Table T-14. The Project would have a positive effect on TAT's
cash flow over the period 1979/80 - 1982/83, with a cumulative positive
cash-flow, at the end of 1982/83, of Tsh. 15 million, in current prices. The
incremental outflow is negative during the period 1983/84 - 1988/89, when TAT
is repaying the Government loan, but becomes increasingly positive in succeed-
ing years.
7.17      Analysis of TAT's financial position indicates that, in the 'without-
Project' situation, TAT's year end bank overdraft would rise from its present
level of Tsh. 80 million, to Tsh. 178 million by the end of 1981/82 (para.
3.11), as a result of TAT's commitment to raise about Tsh 50 million towards
the local costs of the Tobacco Processing Project (supported by Cr. 658-TA)
and because TAT is expected to finance a program of capital expenditure for
itself and TTPC. The projected levels of overdraft for TAT would, if realized,
represent an unsound method of financing TAT operations. It was therefore
agreed during negotiations that the Government would reimburse TAT annually,
through the Government recurrent budget, for the costs of operation of TAT's
extension services. This would put TAT in the same situation as other crop
authorities which provide smallholder extension services. In addition, Gov-
ernment is taking steps to reimburse TAT for payments made by TAT on behalf
of Government for the local contribution to the Flue-cured Tobacco Production
Project, supported by IDA Credit 217-TA. TAT estimates such expenditures at
Tsh. 42 million.



- 46 -
7.18      Projections of TAT's operating accounts, cash flow, and balance
sheet are given in Tables T-15 to T-17 respectively. These projections
are in current price terms, and indicate that on the basis of the proposed
financing arrangements (para. 4.29) and taking account of the measures outlined
in para. 7.17, TAT, year-end overdraft would be eliminated by the end of
1982/83. On these assumptions, TAT would make operating losses during the
years 1978/79 to 1980/81, but would thereafter show large and growing operating
profits, which would reach Tsh. 179 million in current terms (Tsh. 91 million
in constant 1978 terms) in 1988/89. In 1983/84 and succeeding years, TAT would
be able to repay Government loan contracted for this Project, and would also
accumulate a high level of net current assets, which would total Tsh. 980
million (in current prices) by the end of 1988/89.
E. Government Cash-Flow Implications
7.19      The effects of the Project on Government's cash flow in current
prices, are given in Table T-18. With the proposed financing arrangements
(para. 4.29), and the generation of revenues through the operation of the
sales tax on incremental production, the Project would have a negative effect
on the Government cash flow over the period 1978/79 to 1981/82, when the
cumulative negative cash flow would reach Tsh. 35.9 million. Thereafter,
the effects of the Project would be positive, making a net contribution to
Government revenue of Tsh. 27.5 million in 1984/85 rising to Tsh. 33.4 million
in 1988/89. Over the period 1978/79 to 1988/89, the Project would have a
cumulative positive cash flow of Tsh. 143 million.
F. Foreign Exchange Implications
7.20      The foreign exchange impact of the Project would be favorable
(Table T-19). Over the period 1978/79 - 1982/83, the Project would give
net foreign exchange earnings of Tsh. 125.9 million (US$15.2 million) over the
five-year period. There would be a net foreign exchange outflow of Tsh. 27
million (US$3.3 million) in 1978/79, as a result of disbursements from the IDA
credit lagging behind Project expenditures. Over the period 1978/79 to
1988/89, the Project would have cumulative net foreign earnings of Tsh. 890.7
million (US$107.3 million).
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Economic Costs and Benefits
8.01      Project incremental economic costs and benefits are summarized in
Table T-20. These costs and benefits are expressed in constant price terms,
with January 1978 prices as base, and are based on Project benefits (improved



- 47 -
tobacco quantity and quality, and transport cost savings) (para 7.04), Proj-
ect capital costs (including physical contingencies) (para 4.27) and incre-
mental TAT recurrent costs (net of identifiable taxes) (para 7.15). Since
Project investments would be fully utilized by year 10 of the Project, bene-
fits from year 11 onwards are projected to be at the same levels as for year
10. In the case of bulking bags, costs and benefits have been included only
for the incremental bags included in Project costs and no account has been
taken of the fact that these bags would be replaced. In the calculation of
all economic Project costs and benefits, foreign exchange has been shadow-
priced at a rate of US$1 - Tsh. 12, to reflect the economic value of foreign
exchange in the Tanzanian economy, which diverges from the financial exchange
rate primarily because of quantitative import restrictions. Incremental
costs include only a negligible quantity of unskilled labor (in the con-
struction program) and so no shadow-pricing adjustment has been made. The
productive life of the fixed assets (grading/baling sheds, market centers,
storage warehouses) is taken to be 20 years, and provision is included for
the maintenance of these structures. Since incremental production would be
exported, incremental marketed production resulting from the Project is valued
at projected wet-leaf tobacco export prices, FOB Dar-es-Salaam (para 6.13),
adjusted for costs incurred during wet leaf handling and marketing, tobacco
processing and the handling and transport of processed tobacco. The increased
quantity of the tobacco crop is valued at projected wet leaf export prices.
Economic Rate of Return
8.02      Analysis of the data in Table T-20 indicates that, over a 20 year
period, the Project would have an internal economic rate of return (IERR) of
about 24 percent. All Project costs, including technical assistance, are
included in this analysis. The IERR of the major Project components would
be:



- 48 -
Percentage of
Component                                            IERR   Project Capital Costs
Flue-cured Tobacco Investments
Bulking bags                                         320%               3%
Grading/baling centers                                68%              11%
Marketing System Improvements                          22%             19%
Itigi Warehouse                                       13%               6%
Morogoro Factory Warehouses                           30%              13%
Overall flue-cured tobacco investments 1/             26%             56%
Fire-cured Tobacco Investments
Bulking bags                                         200%               2%
Grading/baling centers                                46%               4%
Marketing system improvements                         13%              17%
Makumbako warehouse                                    29%              4%
Sonigea factory warehouses                            20%               9%
Overall fire-cured tobacco investments 1/             22%              36%
Tot:al Project investments 2/                         24%            100%
1/   Including capital and recurrent costs of personnel transport.
2/   Including technical assistance costs (8 percent of Project capital costs).
8.03      Since the costs and benefits from the bulking bags accrue in the
same Project year, the rates of return on bulking bags shown above (para 8.02)
are calculated by examining the incidence of costs and benefits on a quarterly
basis. In calculating the overall rates of return for flue-cured and fire-
cured investments, and for the Project as a whole, the benefits from bulking
bags have been lagged one year behind the costs.
Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
8.04      Sensitivity analysis has been undertaken to examine the effect of
changes in the cost and benefit assumptions on the IERR of the Project. This
gave the following results:
Changes in Assumption                                       IERR
Benefits reduced by 10%                                     20%
Capital costs increased by 10%                              21%
Recurrent costs increased by 10%                            23%
Total costs increased by 10%                                20%
Costs increased by 10% and benefits reduced by 10%          15%



- 49 -
8.05      A major risk of the Project is that implementation would proceed at
a slower rate than-anticipated, as a result of institutional deficiencies with
TAT or within the villages that would be expected to construct grading/baling
centers. This risk has been minimized by the inclusion in the Project of
technical assistance to strengthen TAT, and by provision for TAT to assist the
villages in the procurement of construction materials, and during construction.
In view of the fact that tobacco production is already well established in the
areas in which investment would take place, and since investment is related to
actual production, there is relatively little risk that once Project invest-
ments are made, they would be underutilized unless tobacco prices were to
collapse. Indeed, the projected future level of 'without-Project' production
on which the analysis of the Project is based (para 2.19) is considered within
Tanzania to be very conservative, and is based on a slower rate of expansion
that has been experienced over the last decade.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01      During negotiations, it was agreed that:
(a) TAT would mount a campaign to ensure that crop residues
are destroyed by farmers, would establish adequate standards
for crop hygiene and would consult with IDA on the methods
and steps to be taken to reach such standards; and that,
after July 31, 1980, no seasonal or medium-term finance
would be extended to tobacco-producing villages failing to
meet these standards (para 2.07);
(b) the criteria for selection of villages eligible for grading/
baling centers would be followed (para 4.07), and that annual
grading/baling center construction programs would be drawn up
by TAT no later than December 31st of the year prior to con-
struction, and submitted to IDA for information not later than
January 31st of the following year (para 4.08);
(c) marketing master plans for each tobacco-producing region would
be submitted to IDA for comment by December 31st, 1978, and
that each annual market center construction program would be
provided to IDA for information not later than January 31st of
the calendar year of construction (para 4.11);
(d) after June 30th, 1979, TAT would provide transport hire services
on an unsubsidized basis, that TAT would submit a list of hire
charges to IDA by April 30, 1979, and would submit periodically
thereafter revised charges (para 4.16); and that TAT would
operate, maintain and replace vehicles in accordance with
appropriate management practices (para 4.18);
(e) the master plan for the development of the Songea factory would
be submitted to IDA for review and approval prior to the issuance
of tender documents for construction at the factory (para 4.21);



- 50 -
(f) the raLilway siding at Makumbako would be completed in parallel
with completion of the warehouse (para 4.22);
(g) the post of TAT Financial Manager would continue to be filled
during the period of credit disbursement by a suitably qual-
ified person (para 4.34);
(h) the Financial Systems Development Accountant and Regional
Accountants would be appointed by April 1, 1979 (para 5.04);
that, for all posts financed under the Project (except Build-
ing Supervisors), IDA would be consulted, prior to appointment,
on the qualifications and experience of candidates (paras 5.02-
5.04), that IDA be consulted prior to the appointment of suc-
cessor staff to any of these posts (para 5.05) and that inter-
nationally-recruited staff would be employed under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 5.05);
(i)  Government would reimburse TAT annually for the cost of operation
of TAT's extension serivce (para 7.17).
9.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a)  the completion of subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to IDA
betweerL the Government and TRDB, and between the Government and
TAT (para. 4.29);
(b) the appointment of a Building Engineer, after prior consultation
with IDA on qualifications and experience (para. 5.02).
9.03      It would be a condition of disbursement against the transport com-
ponent of the Project, that TAT had appointed a Transport Officer after prior
consultation with IDA on qualifications and experience (para. 5.03).
9.04      The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$14 million on standard terms to the Government of Tanzania.



ANNEX 1
-51-
TANZANIA
Tobacco Handling Project
Supporting Charts and Tables






CHART C-1
TANZANIA
TOBACCO HANDLING PROJECT
TOBACCO AUTHORITY OF TANZANIA
ORGANIZATION CHART
8OARD OF
DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE
CHAIRMAN
I
GENERAL MANAGER
SUBSIDIARY                                                      MANAGEMENT
COMPANIES                                                        COMMITTEE
MASTERITENL  UI
WORKERS COUNCIL
MANPOWER                              I                                                                      I                           DEVELOPMENT
EVELOPMENT                          FINANCGE                                                         MARKETING                              AND
AND ADMINISTRATIO N                    DEPARTMENT                                                       DEPARTMENT                        PLANNING DEPART
DEPARTSMENT                                                                                                                                  MENT
DENGNPEERNI                     FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS                                                    OP ERATIONS                          PLANNINGS
MECHANICAL                        MANAGEMENT                                                         MARKETING                       TOBACCO TECHNICAL
ENGINEE RI NG    II                    ACCO UNTS     I                                                  OPERATIONS    I                     OPERATIONS     I
I MECHANICAL I    I                                               I  EXPORT  I                        I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FANALYSISOF REI
SERVICES                       BUDGET ACCOUNTSE                                                      OERATIONS                       SEARCH FINDI GSN
JAND. INFORMA TIO)N]
TANSOTTOFIEL
-|    SERVICES    I      H   ~~LEAF ACCOUNTS |                                                    PRTOS IjFARMING SYSTEMS|
SERIE                                                                                               OPRTIN
DEVELOPMENTI
PROCUREMENT                                                                                         CLASSIFCATION
SER VICES                                                                                           OPERATIONS                         DEVELOPMENT
FACTORY
DOCUMENTATION |                                                                                                                                 NCLASSIFCATION  ETNSIN
I   AND BLENDING                           SERVICES
O FFICE SUPPLY                                                                                             FIELD                        CIVI     WRK
I~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                 LA SS IF CATID N|11CVLOKI
A.O ADMINISTRATION                                                                                                                      L    FARMER INPUTS
h  PERSONNEL I
11 WELFARE      I
I                   
HPUBLIC RELATIONS|                                      
I I   I  I   REGIONAL MANAGERS   I                            I   REGIONAL MANAGER
LICROP PRODUCTION                                                 DAR -ES-SALAAM
PROCUREMENT SERVICES
| ADMINISTRATION | | FINANCE     DEVELOPMENT    MARKETING         ADMINISTRATION      FINANCE      PROCUREMENTS       SHIFPING
WorkI B..k - 18E86






TANZANIA
TOBACCO HANDLING PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1978                      1979                      1980                      1981                       1982
J_F_M_A_M_J |S JJ|A|ON  J |F|M|A|M|J |JA I D              AA]JE O SEE 3    INID     S AMJ O                      ] N  JI   I   3
Construction
Grading/baling centres - year 1                           WA   1        W_ _ r t r 
- year 2 
- year 3                                                                       F                    or" VIr  
- year 4                                                                                                           W A                Ad _r    5111
Market centers      -- year 1                   t       _ _           V      TWr_
-year 2                                                                             1IW    AAN
- year 3          -                                                                                nA _. PrAAEr
- year 4                                                                                                   __  _r  
Itigi godown                         __         _ 
Makumbako godown                             W_ .A VA   A 
Morogoro godowns -  Phase I                                                                                     i      |  'A
-Phase II                                                     1    1                 PAVI  A'  A                                        A'
Songea Factory -  Master Plan
- Wareliouses               _r_                                                  -   -
Staff Housing                             |
Vehicles and Equipment                                              I
Year 2                                                                             A l       |   _llllll
Year 3                                                                                                              A         'A
Year 4                                                                                                       7             7                          A |
Project Evaluation                                                                                                                                           r _I=
___W  Design and preparation of documents, planning.
Tendering and review of bids, preparation for implementation.
eAV- V        Construction or shipping period, implementation                                                                  WorldBank - 18419



Pattern of Smallholder Flue-Cured Tobacco Production 1976/77
Tobacco Region   No. of Villages   No. of Families   No. of Families  Tobacco  Area per            Marketed    Production/ha
Growing Tobacco   in Tobacco Grow-  Growing Tobacco   Area   Family (ha)   Production              (kg)
ing Villages                          (ha)                     (tons)
Tabora 1/               79               30,000               13,900        9,000       0.65        4,720            520
Urambo 1/               70               27,700               10,400        5,800       0.56         3,960           680
Mbeya                    9                 4,000               3,000        1,730       0.58           840           480
Iringa                  88               36,000                4,000          860      0.22           460            540
Rukwa                   17                5,100                1,500          500       0.33           320           640
Singida                  5                1,000                  500          320      0.64            290           900
Shinyanga                7                1,500                  750          320      0.43            230           700
Kigoma                  13                4,800                  850          190       0.22            55           290
Total                  288              110,100               34,900       18,720       0.54        10,875           580
1/ Tabora and Urambo Tobacco Regions together comprise Tabora Administrative Region.
Source: Tobacco Authority of Tanzania
January 18, 1978



-55-                                  TABLE  T-2
Tobacco Authority of Tanzania
Summary Income Accounts, 1974-1978 1/
1974      1975       1976       1977       1978
-----------All figures in Tsh '000----------
Trading Income:
Sales                                 122,371   210,411   181,097   311,741   278,053
Less Sales Tax 2/                       8,927    20,553    21,683    38,968    34,756
113,444   189,859   159,414   272,773   243,297
Cost of Sales:
Cost of leaf                           69,584   105,999   105,972   143,840   140,550
Wet leaf costs 3/                       4,393    10,682    14,336    28,193    27,688
Processed tobacco costs 4/             18,246    36,156    35,075    44,562    36,125
Stock changes                         (11,750)  (11,446)   12,669    26,859           ---
80,473   141,391   141,814   243,344   204,363
Trading surplus/(deficit)                 32,971    48,467    17,600    29,429    38,934
Sundry revenue/(expenditure)                  668       364        715    (1,361)        ---
33,639    48,831    18,315    30,790    38,934
Deduct: Administration 5/                   5,538    10,879    15,842    21,955    21,948
Net surplus from tobacco trading           28,101    37,952      2,473      8,835    16,986
Surplus from subsidiary                      (650)    3,278      3,151      3,586        ---
Net surplus from tobacco trading &
processing                             27,451    41,230       5,624    12,421    16,986
Deduct: Development expenditure 6/            359    36,510    16,777         591    19,924
Fertilizer subsidy 7/              5,000      5,906    23,000    24,479    22,475
Maize subsidy 7/                     ---        ---        ---    10,084        ---
Operating surplus/(deficit)                22,092    (1,186)  (34,153)  (22,733)  (25,413)
1/ For financial years ending February 28th of each year.  Accounts for 1974 and
1975 are audited. Accounts for 1976 and 1977 are unaudited and provisional,
and accounts for 1978 are estimated.
2/ Chared on the value of local and export sales, at a rate of 7.5% in 1974, 10%
in 1975 and 12.5% in 1976 and succeeding years.
3/ Variable costs of wet-leaf tobacco marketing (classifying, transport, storage) and
the costs of operating TAT's extension service.
4/ Costs of processing, transport and storage.
5/ Includes depreciation, and costs of TAT Headquarters and regional staff, (excluding
extension service).
6/ Excess of development expenditure over government contribution.
7/ Paid by TAT at Government request.
April 19, 1978



-56-
TABLE T-3
Tobacco Authority of Tanzania
Summary Balance Sheets, 1974-19781/
1974      1975       1976       1977       1978
-----------All figures in Tsh '000----------
Fixed Assets                      5,346     8,795    11,511    20,984    28,584
Development expenditure_2/        6,421    32,972    60,414    73,580   112,004
Investment in subsidiary         16,367    13,777    17,057    15,783    21,955
Long-term assets           28,134    55,544    88,982   110,347   162,543
Current Assets:
Stocks                       24,355    41,582    50,738    25,006    25,006
Debtors                       14,095    15,499    15,738    78,732    75,461
Bank balances and cash        18,000    12,614        580        540        ---
56,450    69,695    66,707   104,278   100,467
Current Liabilities:
Creditors                      7,074    24,872    25,564    61,889    64,689
Bank overdraft                   ---       ---    36,870    69,447    80,000
7,074    24,872    62,434   131,336   144,689
Net current assets               49,376    44,823      4,273   (27,058)  (44,222)
Net Total Assets                 77,510   100,367    93,255    83,289   118,321
=======    -------   -------    =======    =======
General Fund'/                   64,981    63,795    29,642       6,909   (16,783)
Tobacco Development Fund4/        6,421    32,972    60,414    73,580   112,004
Total "Equity'                   71,402    96,767    90,056    80,489    95,221
Loans (Medium and Long-term)    6,108        3,600     3,199      2,800    23,100.5/
77_51Q   100s367    93_25S    832289   118,321
1/  For financial years ending February 28th of each year.  Accounts for 1974
and 1975 are audited, accounts for 1976 and 1977 are provisional, and
accounts for 1978 are estimated.
2/  Expenditure on development of smallholder tobacco production and tobacco
processing.
3/  Accumulated profits less accumulated TAT contributions to development expenditure.
4/  Expenditures on tobacco development under the Flue-cured Tobacco Production
Project and the Tobacco Processing Project.
5/  For Tobacco Processing Project (supported by IDA Credit 658-TA).
April 13, 1978



-57-
TABLE T-4
TANZANIA
Tobacco Handling Project
Projected TAT Cash-Flow, FY79-FY82 V
(Tsh'000)
FY 79      FY 80       FY 81       FY 82
1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82
CASH INFLOW
Trading profit - TAT 2/                          17,948      21,470      25,197      28,260
- TTPC                            1,964       2,279       2,622       2,991
Depreciation   - TAT                               2,700      2,900       3,100       3,300
- TTPC                            1,400       3,000       5,400       5,400
Government loan - Tobacco                        31,447       7,568       1,843         445
Processing Project
TOTAL CASH INFLOW                          55,459      37,217      38,162      40,396
CASH OUTFLOW
Capital expenditure  - TAT                       12,000      13,000      14,000      15,000
- TTPC                      3,200       3,000       1,500       1,500
Development expenditure
- extension services                 18,685     18,872      19,060      19,250
- Tobacco Processing Project         47,032     10,493       2,782         595
Interest on Government loan                        2,310      5,455       6,210       6,000
Loan repayment                                       -           -        5,558       7,028
Interest on overdraft 3/                           6,000      8,555      10,237      11,826
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW                         89,527      59,645      59,347      61,199
Net cash inflow (outflow)                 (34,068)   (22,428)   (21,185)   (20,803)
TAT year-end overdraft                    114,068    136,496    157,681    178,484
1/ In constant 1978 prices.
2/ Prior to deduction of costs of extension service.
3/ At annual interest rate of 7.5 percent.
April 13, 1978



-58-
TANZANIA                                                                      TABLE T-5
Tobacco Handling ProJect
Annual Project Capital Costs
(Tsb '000)
Unit Cost         1978/79             1979/80             1980/81             1981/82                Total         Foreign Exchange
(Tsh)      Number    COSt      Number    Cost      Number    Cost       Number    CoSt      oumber    cost         %      Amount
Bolking Bag.                                 15    92,700   1,390    128,000   1,920        77,000   1,155      98,000   1,470    398,700   5,935          70      4,155
Building Construction
Grading/baling Centers
360 in                            180,000        5        900         9     1,620         9     1,620         9      1,620       32      5,760       20       1,152
450 m2                            226,000        4        904         6     1,356         7     1,582         7      1,582       24      5,424        20      1,085
540  2                            271,000        3        813        4      1,084         4     1,084         5      1,355       16      4,336        20        867
630 mn2                           316,000        1        316         2       632         2       632         3        948         8     2,528        20        506
Sub-total                                          2,933                4,692               4,918               5,505               18,048                3170
Market Centers
540 m2                            441,000        5      2,205         7     3,087         7     3,087         5      2,205       24    10,584         20      2,117
630 m2                             505,000       2      1,010        4      2,020         4     2,020         2      1,010        12     6,060        20      1,212
720 m 2                            569,000       1        569         1       569         1       569         1        569        4      2,276        20        455
Sub-total                                           3,784               5,676               5,676               3,784               18,920                3,784
Godowns
Songea Factory (7,900 m2)                               5,897               5,897                  --                  _---             11,794       40       4,718
Makunbako (2,600 m2)                                    2,400               2,400                  ---                  __               4,800        40      1,920
Itigi (2,600 m3                                         3,208               3,208                 ---                  ---               6,416       40       2,566
Morogoro Fsutory (11,000 m                                ---               3 520               7,040                3,520              14 080        40      5,632
Sub-total                                          11,505              1                    7,040               3,520               3709                 14,836
Housing-Grade A Houses                400,000       6      2,400         2       800                  ---                 ---               3,200        30         960
Songea Garage                                                300                 300                 ----                                     600        40         240
Total Building Costs                              20,922               26,493              17,634              12,809               77,858       30      23,430
Vehicles
G.oods Trasport
45 HP Tractors                     100,000 1/   38      3,800        12     1,200        15     1,500        15      1,500       80      8,000        95      7,600
High Side Trailers                  25,000      76      1,900       24        600        30       750        30        750      160      4,000        80      3,200
10-too Trocks                     330,000 1/   20       6,600                 ---                 ---                  ---       20      6,600        80      5,280
7-ton Trucks                       195,000 1/   11      2,145         2       390         1       195         2        390       16      3,120        80      2,496
Personnel Transport
4-Wheel Drive                      120,000 l/   45      5,400                 ---                  ---                 ---       45      5,400        95      5,130
Motorcycles                         13,500 1/   85      1,148         5        67         5        68         5         67      100      1,350        80      1,080
Mobile Workshops                      140,000 2/    7        980                 ---                  ---                 ---         7       980        95         931
Total Vehicles                                    21,973                2,257               2,513               2,707              29,450        87      25,717
Equip-ent
Grading/Balieg Centers
Block Making Machines               16,000       7        112         3        48         1        16         1         16       12        192        90        173
Platform Scales                     10,000      13        130       21        210        22       220        24        240       80        800        90        720
Tobacco Presses                     2,000       17         34       27         54        28        56        32         64      104        208        90        187
Baling Boses                           600      31         19       50         30        52        31        59         35      192        115        20          23
Dub-total                                             295                 342                 323                 355                1,315                1,103
Macrkt Centers
Dial Scales                         20,000       8        160        12       240        12       240         8        160       40        800        90        720
Hand Calculators                     1,000       8          8        12        12        12         12        8          8       40         40        90          36
Typewriters                          2,000       8         16       12         24        12        24         8         16       40         80        90          72
Furniture                            2,000       8         16       12         24        12        24         8         16       40         80        20          16
Sub-total                                            200                  300                 300                 200               1,000                   844
Vehicle Maistenance Equipment                                400                 400                  ---                   -                 800        90         720
Total Equipmest                                       895               1,042                 623                 555                3,115       86       2,667
Staff and Consultants
T-chnical Assistance
Building Engineer                 350,000 3/    1         350         1       350         1       350         1        350               1,400        75      1,050
Transport Officer                  350,000 3/    1        350         1       350         1       350         1        350               1,400        75      1,050
Financial Systems
Development Accountant            350,000 3/    1         350         1       350         1       350         1       350                1,400        75      1,050
Regional Accoontants              200,000 3/    2         400        5      1,000         5     j000          5     1,000                3,400        75      2,550
Sub-total                                           1,450               2,050               2,050               2,050                7,600       75       5,700
Incremental Local Staff
Deputy Transport Engioner           30,000       1         30         1       130        11        30         1         30                 120                  ---
Deputy Transport Officer            25,000       1         25         1        25         1        25         1         25                 100                   ---
Buildings Supervisors               12,000       3         36         7        84         7         84        8         96                 300
Procurement Officer                25,000        1         25         1        25         1        25         1         25                 100
Sub-total                                             116                 164                 164                 176                 620                   ---
Consultants Secvmes
Songea Masote  Plan                                       500                 ---                 ---                  ---                 500       50         250
Dssign of Grading/Baling &
Marker Centers                                         500                                     ---                  ---                 50D       50         250
Finance Systems Study                                     700                 ---                 ---                  ---                 700       50         350
Evaluation by E.R.B.                                      ---                 100                 100                 500                  700       20         140
Sub-total                                           1,700                 100                 100                 500               2,400                   990
Total Staff and Consultants                         3,266               2,314               2,314               2,726              10,620        64       6,690
Base Cost Estimate 4/                                       48,446              34,026               24,239              20,267             126,978               62,659
Contingenciee
Physical 5/                                             2,846               3,506               2,153               1,371               9,876        31       3,062
Price 6/                                                6,498               9.549               9,394               9,484              34,925        42      14,669
Total Contingencies                                 9,344              13,055              11,547              10,855              44,801        41      17,731
Total Project Cost                                57,790               47,081              35,786              31,122             171,779        47     80,390
1/ Includes provision for purchase of spare parts valued at 10% of vehicle price.
2/ Includes maintenance equipment.
3! Includes provisios for le-ve and travel benefits.,
4/ Base coats estimated at January 1978 prices.
5/ Physical contingencies of 15% on market centers, godowns, houses and garage, and 5% on grading/baling centers.
6/ Price contingencies on vehicles, equipment and staff costs at 77r is 1978, 6.5% in 1979 and 6'b thereafter. For buildings, price contingenciesa at the
following annual rates: 1978, 12%; 1979, 11%; 1980, 10%; 1981, 9%; 1982, 8%.
April 17, 1978



-59-
TABLE T-6
TANZANIA
Tobacco Handling Project
Estimated Disbursement Schedule!'
(US$'000)
Bank Group Financial                      Quarterly           Cumulative
Year and Quarter                       Disbursement         Disbursement
FY79    Ql
Q2
Q3                                   100                   100
Q4                                   200                   200
FY80    Ql                                    500                  800
Q2                                 1,000                 1,800
Q3                                 1,300                 3,100
Q4                                 1,700                 4,800
FY81    Qi                                  1,100                5,900
-Q2                                 1,100                 7,000
Q3                                 1,000                 8,000
Q4                                   800                 8,800
FY82    Ql                                    700                9,500
Q2                                   800                10,300
Q3                                 1,000                11,300
Q4                                   900                12,200
FY83    Ql                                    600               12,800
Q2                                   600                13,400
Q3                                   400                13,800
Q4                                   200               14,000
1/ This schedule assumes that the credit would become effective in
August 1978, and would close at the end of April 1983.
April 13, 1978



-60-
TABLE T-7
TANZANIA
Tobacco Handling Project
Transport Cost Savings
Makumbako Warehouses
Distance, Makumbako - Dar-es-Salaam                            625 km
Cost of road transport, per ton of tobacco 1/,2/               Tsh 407
Cost of rail transport, per ton of tobacco 3/                  Tsh 106
Transport cost savings, per ton of tobacco                     Tsh 301
Itigi Wa_houses
Distance, Itigi - Morogoro                                     500 km
Cost of road transport per ton of tobacco.-  4/                Tsh 385
Cost of rail transport5l                                       Tsh  90
Transport cost savings, per ton of tobacco                     Tsh 295
1/  Based on operating costs of 12 ton-truck, as follows:
Tsh/running kilometer
Capital costs, overheads and insurance                     1.72
Labor costs                                                0.34
Fuel and oil                                               0.64
T.lres and tubes                                           0.52
Maintenance                                                0.39
Total cost                                      3.62
2/  Based on load of 10 tons net weight of processed tobacco, with
backload of 20 percent.
3/  Based on Tanzania-Zambia Railways tariff.
4/  Based on load of 8 tons net weight of wet leaf tobacco, with
backload of 20 percent
5/  Based on East African Railways tariff.
January 18, 1978



TANZANIA
Tobaeco Handling Project
Benefits of Project Components
1978/79     1979/80      1980/81     1981/82      1982/83     1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      1986/87     1987/88
Flue-cured tobacco
Incremental marketd production (m.ton)
Bulking bagsY                                193         423          676          968       1,072        1,147        1,227       1,310        1,402        1,504
Grading/baling centres                         -          59           89          204         278          304          326         343          354          359
Market system improvements                     -         108          228          360         452          546          598         646          678          700
Itigi warehouse                                -           -           80          88           96          104         116          124          132          140
Morogoro warehouses                            -           -            -          131         280          298          320          342         366          392
Total incremental production             193         59Q        1,073       1,751        2,178        2,399       2,587        2,765        2,932        3,095
(Percentage of marketed crop)            (1)         (3)          (6)         (9)         (10)         (10)        (10)         (10)         (10)         (10)
Increased crop value (% of value)  /
Bulking bags                               o.46        0.94         1.40         1.88        1.94         1.94         1.94         1.94       1.94          1.94
Grading/baling centres 3/                     -        0.22         o.44         o.66        o.84         o.86         o.86        o.84         0.82         0.78
Market system improvements /                  -        0.30         0.30         o.60        o.88         1.12         1.18        1.20         1.16         1.12
Total increase in value 3/             o.46         1.46         2.44         3.47        3.92         3.96         3.98        3.98         3.92         3.84
Fire-cured tobacco
Incremental marketed production (m.ton)
Bulking bags  /                              50         107          171          248         272          291          310          334         357          380
Grading/baling centres                        -          20           43           67          93          101          log          118         120          122
Market system improvements                    -          72          152          216         280          300          320          344         368          396
Songea warehouses                             -           -          222          240         255          273          291         313          335          357
Total incremental production              50         199          588          771         900          965        1,030       1,109        1,180        1,251
(Percentage of marketed crop)           (1)          (3)         (10)        (12)         (13)         (13)        (13)         (13)         (13)         (13)
Increased crop value (% of value)iY
Bulking bags                               o.46        0.94         1.40         1.88        1.94         1.94         1.94         1.94        1.94        1.94
Grading/baling centres-3/                              0.26         o.46         o.68        o.88         0.90         0.90         0.92        o.86         o.84
Market system improvements                             o -  o.44    1.24         1.64        2.00         2.00         2.00         2.00        2.00         2.00
Total increase in value3/               o.46        1.64         3.10         4.20        4.82         4.84         4.84         4.86        4.80         4.78
It is assumed that, after 1981/82, all new tobacco growers would adopt the use of bulking bags.
/  Increased crop value expressed as a percentage of total national crop value.
3   The percentage increase in value from these investments declines towards the end of the period since the facilities would
reach full capacity, while the marketed crop would continue to increase.
February 14, 1978



-62-                                   TABLE 1-9
TANZANIA
Tobacco Handling Project
Tobacco Crop Budgets
(Tsh)
Flue-cured Tobacco               Fire-cured Tobacco
Input                      (Cost per 0.54 ha 1/)            (Cost per 0.5 ha 1/)
Fertilizer 2/                                454                             125
Seedbed pack                                 108                             100
Watering can 3/                               20                              20
Soil injector gun 4/                          50                              50
Barn flues  3/                               160                              -
Empty drum 37                                 23
Barn thermometer                              40                              -
Fertilizer cups                                5                               5
Hessian cloth                                116                             100
Tar-linied paper                              53                              -
Jute twine                                    20                              18
Thiodan dust                                  25                              25
Interest: on seasonal credit                  64                              32
Total cost                          1,138                             565
Production (kg)                       313                             265
Gr-oss return 5/                    2,534                           1,378
Neht return                         1,396                             813
Returns from Bulking bags
Incremental costs                      47                               39 7
Incremental benefits./               168                              90
Net benefits                          121                               51
1/  Average size of family farm.
2/  At rates of 15 bags of NPK per hectare for flue-cured, and 5 bags of ammonium
sulphate per hectare of fire-cured tobacco.
3/  3-year life.
4/ Shared among 10 farmers.
5/ At T.Sh. 8.10 for flue-cured and T.Sh. 5.20 for fire-cured.
6/  3 bags in each year at Tsh 15.00 each, plus Tsh 2 for interest payments on
seasonal credit.
7/  3 bags in one year, 2 bags in the next.  On average, 2.5 bags per year at
Tsh 15.00 each, plus Tsh 1.50 for interest payments on seasonal credit.
8/  Net of incremental costs of packing materials (hessian cloth, tar-lined paper,
jute twine).
April 13, 1978



TANZANIA
Tobacco Handling Project
Financial Analysis of Typical .F1886yured Grading/Baling Center-
YEAR 1    YEAR 2    YEAR 3    YEAR 4    YEAR 5    YEAR 6    YEAR 7    yEAR 8    YEAR 9    YEAR 10    YEAR 11    YEAR 12                         YEAR 13    YEAR 14    YEAR 15
I.    FINANCIAL BATE OF RETUN
Cos-ts
Construction and equipment                      287           -          -           -           -           -          -           -           -           -            -            -            -            -            -
Maintenance                                                   5.7        6.1         6.6         7.0         7.5        8.1         8.6         9.2        9.9         10.5         11.3         12.1         12.9         13.8
Total Costs                                        287          5.7        6.1         6.6         7.0         7.5        8.1         8.6         9.2        9.9         10.5         11.3         12.1         12.9        -13.8
Benefits 2-                                         -          90.3      107.8       127.8       147.8      171.7       190.6       204.6      217.6       233.4        249.3        266.8        285.5        306.0        327.3
Net benefits (costs)                              (287)        84.6      101.7       121.2       140.8      164.4       182.5       196.0      208.4       223.5        238.8        255.5        273.4        293.!        313.5
Financial rate of return          447.
TI.   VILLAGE CASH FLWW
Cash inflow
TEDB loan-                                      287           -          -           -           -          -           -           -           -           -            -             -            -           -             -
Village ness                                      -          67.2       73.0        79.3        86.1       93.0        96.0        96.0        96.0       96.0         96.0         96.0         96.0         96.0         96.0
Total cash inflow                                  287         67.2       73.0        79.3        86.1       93.0        96.0       -96.0        96.0       96.0         96.0         96.0         96.0          96.0         96.0
Cash outflow
Construction of centre                           287          -           -          -           -           -           -          -           -            -            -            -            -            -            -          a
Maintenance of centre                             -           5.7        6.1         6.6         7.0         7.5        8.1         8.6         9.2         9.9         10.5         11.3         12.1         12.9         13.8
Interest on loan                                  -         24.4        21.3        18.2        15.1       11.9         8.7         5.5         2.3          -            -            -            -            -            -
Repayment of loan                                 -          35.9       35.9        35.9        35.9       35.9        35.9        35.9        35.9          -            -            -            -            -            -
Total cash outflow                                 287         64.0       63.3        60.7        58.0        55.3       52.7        50.0        47.2         9.9         10.5         21.3         12.1         32.9         13.8
Net cash inflow                                     -           3.2         9.7       18.6        28.1        37.7       43.3        46.0        48.8        86.1         85.5         84.7         83.9         83.1         82.2
Cumulative cash inflow                                          3.         12.        31.5        59.6        9.3       14.         18.          35.4       32.           0.           91.7        5.6          658.7        74.
111. PRODUCERS INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW
Incremental cash inflow                             -          90.3      107.8       127.8       147.8       171.9      190.6       204.6       217.6       233.4        249.3        266.8        285.5        306.0        327.3
Incremental cash outflow 7                                     67.2      73.0         79.3        86.1        93.0        96.0       96.0        96.0        96.0         96.0         96.0         96.0         96.0         96.0
Net incremental cash inflowm                                   23.1        34.8       48.5        61.7        78.9        94.6      108.6       121.6       137.4        153.3        170.8        189.5        210.0        231.3
Net incremental cash inflow per farmer (Tsh)               -          67.0       94.3       110.7       132.1       165.8       193        221.1       247.7       279.8        312.2        347.9        386.0        427.7        471.1
I/    Analysis of 360m2 center, constructed in fourth year of Project (1981/82).  Analysis in current prices, with annual inflation assumed to be 7 percent.
2/    At 2 percent of construction coat aidjusted for inflation.H
3/     3 percent increase in volume of marketed production, 2 percent increase in average price, valued at producer prices.
4/    Loan cowering 100 percent of construction and equipment costs, for eight years.  at interest rate of 8.5 percent.
5/     Tab 0.60 on each kilogram  of tobacco sold by village.
6/     Increased producer incomes.
7/    Village tobacco cons.
January 18, 1978



TANZANIA
Tobacco Handling Prolect
Financial Analvsis of Typical Fire-cured Grading/Balinjg Center 1
(Tsh 000)
YEAR 1   YEAR 2    YEAR 3    YEARi 4        YEAR 5   YEAR 6    YEAR 7    YEAR 8    YEAR 9            YEARi 10    YEAR 11    YEAR 12    YEARL 13    yEAR 14    YEAR 15
I.    FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
Costs
Construction and equipment                     287         -          -           -          -          -          -           -          -                  -                       -                  -            -
Maintenance                                     -          5.7        6.1         6.6        7.0        7.5        8.1         8.6        9.2        9.9        10.51        11.3        12.1         12.9        13.8
Total  .. L.                         ~~~~~~87    5.7        6.1         6.6        7.0        7.5        8.1        8.6         9.2        9.9        105          11.3        12.1         12913.8
Benefits  -'-                                               63,7        74.5       87.0      100,6      158.0       132.0      1.3        152.1      162.9        176.0       188.9        202.9       217.9        234.1
Net benefits (costs)                            (287)       58.0        68.4       80.4       93.6      110.5       123.9      132.7      142..9     153.0        165.5       177.6        190.8       205.0        220.3
Financial rate of return   32%
II.   VILLAGE CASH 97.0W
cash inflow
TRD3B loan                                     287         -          -           -          -          -          -           -          -           -            -           -            -           -            -
Village cess                                    -         56.1       60.9        66.1       71.8       77.5        80.0       80.0       80.0       80.0         80.0        80.0         80.0        80.0         80.0
Total cash inflow                                287        56.1        60.9       66.1       71.8       77.5        80.0       80.0       80.0       80.0         80.0        80.0         80.0        80.0         80.0
Cash outflov
Construction of centre                         287         -           -          -          -          -           -          -          -            -           -           -            -            -           -
Maintenance of centre                           -          5.7         6.1        6.6        7.0         7.5        8.1        8.6        9.2         9.9        10.5        11.3         12.1        12.9         13.8
Interest on loan-                                         24.4       22.4        20.3       18.3       16.3       14.2        12.2       10.2        8.1          6.1         4.1          2.0           -           -
Repayment of loan-                                        23.9       23.9        23.9       23.9       23.9       23.9        23.9       23.9       23.9         23.9        23.9         24.1           -           -
Total cash outflow                               287        54.0        52.4       50.8       49.2       47.7        46.2       44.5       43.3       41.9         40.5        39.3         38.2        12.9         13.8
Net cash inflow-                                             2.1         8.5       15.3       22.6       29.8        33.8       35.5       36.7       38.1         39.5        40.7         41.8        67.1         66.2
Cisnulative cash inflow            -         ~~~~      ~~~2.1  106 2.           85        78.3      112.1      147.6       184.3      222.4       261.9        302. 6      344.4        41.           77.
Ill.  PRODUCERS' INCRZE9NTAL. CASH FLOW
Incremental cash inflow-                                    58.0        68.4       80.4       93.6       110.5      123.9      132.7      142.9       -.3.0       165.5       177.6        190.8       205.0        220.3
Incremental cash outflow  --                                56.1        60.9       66,1      .71.8       77.5        80.0       80.0       80.0        80.0        80,0        80.0         80.1        80.0         80.0
Net incremental cash 1nflow (outflow)                         i .9       7.5       14.3       21.8        33.0       43.9       52.7        62.9       73.0        85.5         97.6       110.8        145.0       140.3
Net incremental inflow (outflow)
per farmer (Tsh)-                                          4.6        17.3       30.7       43.8       61.8        72.7       87.2      104.1       120.9       141.6       161.6        183.4        240.1       232.3
1/    Analysis of 36Om2 center, constructed in fourth year of Project (1981/82).  Analysis in current prices, with annual inflation assumed to be 7 percent.
21 At 2 percent of construction cost adjusted for inflation.
3/ 3 percent increase in volume of marketed production, 2 percent increase in average price, valued at producer prices.
4/    Loan covering 100 percent of construction and equipment costs, for twelve years, on an annual interest rate of 8.5 percent.                                                                                                    n
5/ Tab 0.50 on each kilogram of tobacco sold by village.-
6/ Increased producer incomes.
7/ Village tobacco cess.
April 17, 1978



TANZANTA
Tobacco Handling Project
Incremental TRDB Cash Flow -/
(Tsh' 000)
1978/79  1979/80   1988/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89    1989/90    1990/91    1991/92    1992/93   1993/94
Cash Inflow
project funds - bulking bags                         1,446       593        845       699         -          -         -          -          -         -          -           -           -           -          -          -
- grading/baling centre
construction                         3,466    6,125      7,028      8,534         -         -          -         -          -                    -           _           -           _           _         _
- grading/baling centre
equipment                              328      415        413        486
Interest on seasonal finance for bulking bags -          61       91        134        160       183        210       240        275        315       360        385         412         441         472        505        540
Repayment of seasonal loans                           1,466    2,148      3,143      3,762     4,307      4,931     5,646      6,464      7,400     8,473      9,066       9,700      10,379     11,106      11,883    12,715
Interest on long-term loans 3/                           -       322        841     1,373      1,967      1,706     1,445      1,184        923       662        431         252         133          85         41         16
Repayment of long-term loans 4/                          -       435      1,184     2,037      3,071      3,071     3,071      3,071      3,071     2,716      2,102       1,404         558         479        342        187
Total cash inflow                                     6,767   10,129    13X588    17,051       9,528               10,402    10,994    11,709    12,211    1              11,768      11,511     12.142      12,771    13,458
Cash Outflow
Seasonal loans for bulking bags                       1,466    2,148      3,143     3,762      4,307      4,931     5,646      6,464      7,400     8,473      9,066       9,700     10,379      11,106      11,883    12,715
Long-term loans                                       3,794    6,540      7,441      9,020        -          -          -         -          -          -         -           -           -           -           -         -
Interest on loan from Government 5/                      -       210        495        826     1,215      1,215      1,134     1,053        972        891       810         729         648         567         486       405
Repayment of Government loan                             -         -         -          -          -      2,025      2,025     2,025      2,025      2,025      2,025      2,025       2,025       2,025       2,025      2,025
Total cash outflow                                    5,260    8,898    11,079    13,608       5,522      8,171      8,805     9,542    10,397    11,389    11,901        12,459      13,052      13,698      14,394    15,145
Net cash inflow (outflow)                             1,507    1,231      2,509      3,443     4,006      1,747      1,397      1,452     1,312        882         83       (686)    (1,541)    (1,556)    (1,623)   (1,687)
Cumulative cash inflow                                1,507    2,738      5,247      8,690    12,696     14,443    16,040    17,492    18,804    19,626    19,709         19,023      17,482      15,926      14,303    12,616
I/   In current prices, assuming an annual rate of inflation of 7 percent.
2/   At an annual interest rate of 8.5 percent for 6 months.
3/  At an annual interest rate of 8.5 percent, for village grading/baling centres.
4/   Over an eight-year period for flue-cured tobacco villages and a twelve-year period for fire-cured tobacco villages.
5/   At an annual interest rate of 4 percent.
6/   Loan for a 20 year period, with 5 years of grace.
April 14, 1978



TANZANIA
Tobacco Handling Project
Incremental TAT Recurrent Costs '
(TSh. '000)
1988/89
Maintenance                            year:   1979/80       1980/81    1981/82       1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      1985/86       1986/87      1987/88      Onwards
Building Maintenance  /                       -           323          754        1,072        1,346        1,346        1,346        1,346         1,346        1,346
Equipment Maintenance  /                      -            60          130          160          180          180          180           180          180          180
Sub-total                                         383          884        1,232        1,526        1,526        1,526         1,526        1,526        1,526
Vehicle Operation
Tractors 4/                                 2,196      2,890         3,757        4,624        4,624        4,624        4,624        4,624        4,624         4,624
7-ton trucks 5/                            1,056       1,248         1,344        1,536        1,536        1,536        1,536        1,536         1,536        1,536
10-ton trucks 6/                           3,200       3,200        3,200         3,200        3,200        3,200        3,200        3,200        3,200         3,200
4-wheel drive vehicles 7/                   2,295      2,295         2,295        2,295        2,295        2,295        2,295        2,295         2,295        2,295
Motor-cycles 8/                               510         540          570          600          600          600          600          600           600          600
Sub-total                           9,257      10,173       11,166       12,255       12,255       12,255       12,255        12,255       12,255       12,255 5
Sub-total                            'a,
Less:  Savings on hire of vehicles 9/         5,320      5,560         5,680        5.920        5,920         5,920                    5.920         5,920 5.920
Sub-total                           3,937       4,613        5,486        6,335        6,335        6,335        6,335         6,335        6,335        6,335
Incremental Staffing
Market Cente a i/                             320         800        Z,280        1,600        1,600        1,600        1,600         1,600        1,600        1,600
Warehouses   1/                               -           300          300          300          300          300          300           300          300          300
Sub-total                             320       1,100        1,580        1,900        1,900        1,900        1,900         1,900        1,900        1,900
Total Incremental Recurrent Costs                4.257       6.996        7,950        9.467        9.761        9.761         9.761        9.761        9.61         9.761
1/  In constant 1978 prices.
t/ At 2 percent per annum of capital cost.
3/  At 10 percent per annum on equipment other than vehicles for which maintenance is included in operating cost.
4t  Tsh. 57.80 per hour for an average  usage of 1,000 hours per annum.
5   Tsh. 3.20 per kilometer for an average of 30,000 km. per annum.           )
6/  Tsh. 4.00 per kilometer for an average of 40,000 km. per annum.           ) All excluding depreciation.
7/  Tsh. 1.60 per kilometer for an average of 10,000 km. per annum.
8/  Tsh. 0.60 per kilometer for an average of 30,000 km. per annum.
9/  Savings at Tsh. 4.00 per kilometer for 7 ton trucks, Tsh. 5.00 per kilometer for 10-ton trucks.
10/  Tsh. 40,000 per annum for each permanent market center.
11/  Tsh. 150,000 per annum for each of Itigi and Makumbako warehouses.
January 18, 1978



TANZANIA
Tobacco Handling Project
Project Related Incremental TAT Cash Flow 1/
(Tsh '000)
1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      1986/87      1987/88      1988/89
Incremental Cash Inflow
Government loan for Project investments 2/         17,470        4,950        5,530        6,100          ---          ---          ---          ---          ---           ---
Government equity for Project investments         35,229       34,086       21,918       15,236           ---          ---
Gross incrementai saies revenues 3/                5,904       20,977       45,355       75,084        99,676      118,350      138,917      158,873      179,830      199,581
Incremental depreciation 4/                        6,066        7,340        8,720       10,307       11,028        11,800       12,627       13,510       14,450       15,568
Total Incremental Cash Inflow               64,669       67,353       81,523      106,727      110,704      130,150      151,544      172,383       194,280      215,149
Incremental Cash Outflow
Interest payments on Government loan 5/               ---        1,747        2,242       2,795         3,482        3,482        2,786        2,089        1,394          696
Repayment of Government loan 6/                       ---          ---          ---          ---          ---        6,963        6,963        6,963        6,963        6,963
Incremental tobacco purchase costs 7/              2,658        9,366       19,948       34,081       45,967        54,694       64,155       73,495       83,387       94,063
Incremental marketing and processing costs 8/         866       2,960         6,418      10,900        14,581       17,062       19,626       22,469       25,549       28,881
Incremental sales tax 9/                              738       2.622        5,669        9,386        12,460       14,794       17,365       19,859       22,479       24,948
Project investments, including                    52,699       39,036       27,448       21,336       30,762         3,386        4,046        4,656       40,430       49,567
replacement 10/
Incremental recurrent costs ll/                    4.844        6.949        9,779       12 401        13,665       14.622       15.646       16,741       17.913       19,166
Total Incremental Cash Outflow              61,805       62,680       71,504       90,899      120,917      115,003      130,587      146,272       198,115      224,284
Net Incremental Cash Inflow/(Outflow)                 2,864       4,673        10,019       15,828      (10,213)      15,147       20,957       26,111       (3,835)       (9,135)
Cumulative Incremental Cash Inflow/(Outflow)          2,864        7,537       17,556       33,384       23,171       38,318       59,275       85,386       81,551        72,416
1/  In current prices, assuming an inflation rate of 7 percent per annum.
2/  For trucks, technical assistance and local staff. All other TAT Project investments are financed by Goverrment equity contributions to TAT.
3/  From para. 7.04, converted to current prices.
4/  At annual rates of 20 percent on 10-ton trucks, 25 percent on all other vehicles, and 10 percent on equipment.
5/ Interest at annual rate of 10 percent.
6/ The loan is for ten years including a five-year grace period.
7/  Payments to producers for incremental marketed production and higher tobacco quality.
8/  Costs of purchase, transport, storage, processing and post-processing handling.
9/  At ad valorem rate of 12.5 percent on TAT sales.
10/ Ten-ton trucks replaced every 5 years, all other vehicles replaced every 4 years.
11/ Table T-13.
April 14, 1978



TANZANIA
Tobacco Handling Project
Proiected TAT Operating Accounts
(Tsh'000)
1978/79     1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      1986/87      1987/88      1988/89
Revenue
Gross sales of tobacco                          298,554      346,454      406,739      487,891      576,514      679,487      790,062      911,234   1,054,033   1,217,408   1,303,557
Less - Sales tax 2,                              37,319       43,307       50,842       60,998       72,064       84,936       98,758      113,904      131,754      152,176      174,195
Net sales revenue                               261,235      303,147      355,897      426,984      504,450      594,551      691.,304     797,330      922,279   1,065,232   1.210,362
Variable costs
Purchase of leaf from farmers                   151,179      174,202      205,249      245,041     287,448       333,109      385,107      442,265      506,454      561,336      663,975
Marketing, processing & handling                 63,411       76,476       80,502       91,666      106,811      123,434      141,647      162,761      186,224      212,969      243,547
Project-related, recurrent costs                    -          4,844        6,949        9,779       12,401       13,665       14,622       15,646       16,741       17,913       19,166
Total variable costs                            214,590      255,522      292,700      346,486      406,660      470,208      540,376      620,672      709,49       807,218      926,688
Non-variable costs
Administrativ5 costs                             19,696       21,469       23,401       25,507       27,803       30,305       33,032       36,005       39,246       42,778       46,628     X
Depreciation _                                    2,700        9,169       10,646       12,520       13,396       14,334       15,338       16,411       17,560       18,789       20,104
Total non-variable costs                         22,396       30,638       34,047       38,027       41,199       44,639       48,370       52,416       56,806       61,567       66,732
Total trading costs                             236,986      286,160      326,747      384,513     447,859       514,847      588,746      673,088      766,225      868,785      993,420
Irading income                                   24,249       16,987       29,150       42,471       56,591       79,704      102,558      124.242      156,054      196,447      225,942
Other expenses
Operation of extension service                   19,572       21,334       23,254       25,347       27,628       30,115       32,825       35,779       39,000       42,509       46,335
Interest on bank overdraft 6/                     6,000        3,303        3,307        2,597        1,430         -            -            -            -            -            -
Total,_tre ns                                    25.572       24.637       26.561       27,944       29,058       30,115       32,825       35,779       39,000       42,509       46,335
Operating surplus (deficit)                      (1,323)      (7,650)       2,589       14,527       27,533       49,589       69,733       88,463      117,054      153,838      179,607
(Operating surplus (deficit)
in constart 1978 prices)                      (1,323)      (7,150)       2,271       11,907       21,179       35,676       46,489       54,946       68,054       83,662       91,171
1/ In current prices, assuming a general rate of inflation over the period of 7 percent.
2   At a rate of 12 percent on TAT sales.
3/ All transport, storage and processing costs for both wet-leaf and processed tobacco.
4/  From Table T-13, converted to current prices.
5/ Including Project-related depreciation.
6/ At an interest rate of 7.5 percent per year.
April 18, 1978



TANZANIA
Tobacco Handling Project
TAT Cash Flow Projections 1/
(Tah '000)
1978/79      1979/80       1980/81      1981/82       1982/83      1983/84       1984/85       1985/86       1986/87      1987/88       1988/89
Cash Inflow
Operating surplus  - TAT                                    -             -           2,589        14,527       27,533        49,589        69,773        88,463      117,054       153.938       179,607
- TTPC                                 1,964         2,439        2,989         3,679        4,4U2         5,221         6,072         7,192        8,318         9,577        10,981
Depreciation       - TAT                                   2,700         9,169       10,646        12,520        13,396       14,334        15,338        15,411       17,560        18,789        20.104
- TTPC                                 1,400         3,200        6,498         6,615        7,078         7,574         8,104         8,671        9,268         9,928        10,623
Loans from Government - Processing Project                31,477         7,568        1,843           445          -            -             -             -            -             -             -
- Handling Project                  3,000        14,470        4,950         5,530        6.100
Equity from Government - Handling Projec5                   4,000        31,229       34,086        21,918        15,236         -             -             -            -             -
Government payment for extension service _                   19.572        21,334       23,254        25,346        27,628       30,115        32,825        35,780       39,000        42,510        46,336
Government contri. for Tobacco Pr.ductinn Project 4/         42,000          _      -            -                           -                                 -             -             -            -
Total Cash Inflow                               104,113       89,409        86,855       90,580       101,373       106,833      132,112       156,517       191,210       234,742      263,651
Cash Outflow
Operating deficit  - TAT                                   1,323         7,650          -            -             -             -            -             -             -             -            -      o
Capital expenditures-TAT                                  12,000        13,910       15.960        18,297        19,578       34,068         6,924         7,830        8,706        44,763        50,103
-TTPC                                   500         3,745         3,420        6,615         7,078         7,574        8,104         8,671         9,278        9,928        10,623
Development expenditure - Processing Project              47,032        10,493        2,782           595          -             -            -             -             -            -             -
- Handling Project                7,000        45,699       39,036        27,448        21,336          -            -             -
Dlepayment of loan       - Processing Project                -            -            5,558       11,308        11,308        11,308       11,308        11,308          -             -             -
- Handling Project                 -             -             -            -             -             -           6,963         6,963        6,963         6,963         6,963
Loan interest            - Processing Project              2,310         5,455         6,210        5,645         4,523         3,393        2,262         1,131          -             -             -
- Handling Project                 -              700        1,747         2 242         2,795        3,482         3,482         2,786        2,089         1,394           696
Total Cash Outflow                               70,165        86,252       74,713        72,150        66,618       59,825        39,043        38,689       27,036        63,048        68,385
Net Cash Inflow                                  33,948         1,757       12,142        18,430       34,755        47,008        93,069       117,828      164,174       171,694       195,266
1/ In current prices, assuming a general rate of inflation of 7 percent per annum.
2/ Net of corporate income tax.
3/ Table T-l5.
4/  Govermment contributions to cost of Flue-cured Tobacco Production Project, supported by Credit 217-TA.
April 14, 1978



TANZANIA
Tobacco HandlinB Project
Prolected TAT Balance Sheet 1/
(Tsh '000)
1978/79       1979/80       1980/81       1981/82       1982/83       1983/84       1984/85       1985/86       1986/87        1987/88       1988/89
Assets
Fixed Assets                             37,884        42,625        47,939        53,716        59,898        59,632         71,218        62,637        53,783        79, 757      109,756
Development Expenditure                 166,026       222,218       264,036       292,070       313,406       313,406       313,406        313,406       313,406       313,406       313,406
Investment in Subsidiary                 21,055        21,600         18,522        18,52215 18,522                                         18,522        18,522        18,522        18,522
Total, Long-term Assets            224,965       286,443       330,497       364,308       391,826       391,560       403,146       394,565       385,711       411,685        441,684
Current Assets                          100,467       107,500       115,025       123,076       144,314       217,980        296,678       421,221       592,747       772,241       979,832
Current Liabilities-Creditors            64,689        69,217        74,062        79,247        84,794        91,452         97,081       103,876       111,148       118,928       127,253
-Overdraft          44,042        44,090         34,628        19-064           ___---                                     ---           ---           --_-          - -
Sub-total                          108,731      113,307        108,690        98,311        84,794        91,452        97,081       103,876       111,148        118,928       127,253
Net Current Assets                  (8,264)       (5,807)        6,335        24,765        59,520       126,528       199,597       317,345       481,599        653,313       852.579
Total Assets               216,701       280,636       336,832       389,073       451,346       518,088       602,743        711,910       867,310    1,064,998    1,294,263
Liabilities
Equity-General Fund                      (3,902)      (21,197)       (8,052)       21,486        67,631       145,681       248,607        376,125       538,408       742,059       979,287
-Tobacco Development Fund        166,026       222,218       264,036        292,070       313,406       313,406       313,406       313,406       313,406        313,406       313 406
Total Equity                         ~____0                                                               1,0           1,0           1,0           1,0            1,0           1,0
155,124       201,021       255,9B2       313,556       381,037       459,087       562,013       689,531       851,814    1,056,465    1,292,693
Long-term  Debt-Government Loans 2/    54,577          79,615        80,850        75,517        70,309         59,001        40,730        22,459        15,496         8,533          1,570
Total Liabilities     2     1                   ==4   =                                                                       2w=_ _         Za12 92= _
1/ In current prices, assuming an annual interest rate of 7 percent.
2/  For the Tobacco Processing Project (Credit 658-TA) and this proposed Tobacco Handling Project.
April 18, 1978



TANZANIA
Tobacco Handling Project
Incremental Government Cash-Flow Statement!'
(Tsh '000)
1978/79      1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85       1985/86      1986/87      1987/88      1988/89
Incremental Cash Inflow
IDA Funds                                              2,460       36,900       32,800       27,880       14,760           ---          ---          ---          ---           ---          ---
TRDB Loan Service Payment 2/                              ---          210          495          826        1,215        3,240        3,159        3,078        2,997         2,916        2,835
TAT Loan Service PaymentsY                                ---          700        1,747       2,242        2,795         3,482       10,445        9,749        9,052         8,357        7,659
Incremental Sales Tax on Tobacco4/ 4__                                738        2,622        5,669        9,386       12,460        14,794       17,365       19,859       22,479        24,948
Total Incremental Cash Inflow                    2,460       38,548       37,664       36,617       28,156       19,182       28,398        30,192       31,908       33,752       35,442
Incremental Cash Outflow
Equity to TAT                                          4,000       31,229       34,086       21,918       15,236                        ---           -             -
Loan to TRDB                                           5.240        7,133        8,286        9,719                                                                ---          ---
Loan to TAT                                            3,000       14,470         4,950        5,530        6,100          ---          ---           ---           -           ---          ---
Servicing of IDA Credit                                                                                                    861          861          861          861           861        2,009
Total Incremental Cash Outflow                  12,258       53,127       47,863       37,917       22,197          861           861          861          861          861        2,009
Net Incremental Cash Inflow (Outflow)                     (9.798.     (14.579)    (10.199)       (1.300)       5.959       18.321       27.537       29.331        31,047       32.891       33,433
Cumulative Net Incremental Cash Inflow (Outflow)          (9,798)    (24,377)    (34,576)    (35,876)         (29,917)   (11,596)       15,941        45,272       76,319      109,210      142,643
1/ In current prices, assuming an annual inflation rate of 7 percent.
2/ Loan is for 16 years, with a 5 year grace period, at an interest rate of 4 percent.
3/  Loan is for 10 years, with a 5 year grace period, at an interest rate of 10 percent.                                                                                                              H
4/   t a rate of 12% percent on TAT sales.
April 14, 1978



TANZANIA
Tobacco Handling Proiect
Foreign Exchange Effects of Project 1/
1978/79     1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      1982/83     1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      1986/87      1987/88      1988/89
Foreign Exchange Inflow
Proceeds of IDA Credit                                  2,460       36,900      32,800       27,880       14,760          ---          ---         ---          ---          ---          ---
Incremental Tobacco Export Earnings                       ---       5,904       20,977       45,355       75,084      99,676      118,350      138,917      158,873      179,830      199,581
Total Foreign Exchange Inflow                 2,460       42,804       53,777       73,235      89,844       99,676      118,350    ~138917        158,873     179,830      199,581
Foreign Exchange Outflow
Foreign Exchange Component of:
Project Capital Costs 2/                         27,038       21,867       16,795       14,596      25,042        2,750        3,279        3,792       32,880        3,614        5,823
Project Recurrent Costs-Tobacco Trading 3/           173         592        1,284        2,180        2,916       3,412        3,925        4,494        5,110        5,776        6,180
-Vehicle Operation 4/    2,559         3,208       4,065        5,024        5,376        5,752       6,155        6,585        7,046        7,540        8,067
-Maintenance 5/             ---           82          202         300          400          428          457          489          524         560          600
IDA Credit Service Payments                                18          295         541          750          861          861         861          861          861          861          861
Total Foreign Exchange Outflow               29,788       26X044       22,887       22,850      34,595       13,203       14,677       16,221       46,421       18,351       21,531
Net Foreign Exchange Inflow/(Outflow)                    (27,328)      16,760       30,890      50,385       55,249       86,473      103,673      122,696     112,452      161,479      178,050
Cumulative Net Foreign Exchange Inflow/(Outflow)         (27,328)    (10,568)       20,322       70,707     125,956      212,429      316,102     438,798      551,250      712,729      890,779
1/  In current prices, aasutDing annual inflation at 7 percent
2/ Including replacement of vehicles and equipment.
3/ With a foreign exchange content of 20 percent.
/  With a foreign exchange content of 65 percent.
5/ With a foreign exchange content of 20 percent.
April 14, 1978



TANZANIA
Tobacc  H-ndling P-uic-
E.onnoic Costs and B-nfits
(Tab 'Ill)
Ycan          1          2          3           4           5          A           7          8           9          II          11         12          13          14          15         16          17         10          19          20
Flue-cord Tobacc
Costs - Copicl1                                1,192      1,658         993       1,264         ---        ---         --           -          -           -          --         --          ..         --          --          -           -                      -           -
Benfits                                                   4,682      10,959     IA,208       9,004       5,039         ---                                           ----- -- -- --         --          --          --         --          --          --         --
Cradlno/Ba1inn Center
loots   Capist1                                2,922       4,128      4,293      4,800          ---        ---         ---        ---         ---        ---         ---         ---        ---         --          ---        ---         -----                  ----
~-      -Oocet                           ---          58        141         239         335        335        333         335         335        335         335        335         335         335        333         333        335         335         335         333
na-fir                                           ---       2,186      4,027       7,885     11,111      12,302     13,484      14,127     14,662      14,910     14,910    14,910    14,910    14,918           14,910      14,910     14.910    14,910    14.910         14,918
M-cketi.gSyste  Ip-cueonta
C-ats   Cap itol                              17,726      8,736       3,931      4,949       9,030       7,9809      2,163      2,373       9,031      2,436      8,141       2,084       9,261       2,394      2.163       7,917       9,038      2,436       2,163       2,373
R--Ocret                               2,570      3,600       4,341       5,402      5,605       SI705      5,705       5,705      5,705       5,703      5,705       3,705       3,705      5,705       3.705       5,703      5,705       5.703       3,783      5,705
B_nfi to                                          ---      3,535      7,604      12,360     17,624      19,603     21,918      23,721    74,715       25,594    25,594       25.194    25,594       21,394      25,594    23,594    25.594    25.394           25,594      25,594
Iotig W-ch-us
R-Bcuret                                 ---         258        410         410        410         410        418         410         410        410          l   410   6Z 10                   410        410         418         410        410         418         410
Benefi ts                                         ---        ---      1,170       1,290       1,300      1,501       1,628      1,770       1,920      2,070       2,070      2,070       2,870       2,070      2,878       2,070       2,870      2,070       2,0;0       2,870
M-rnor  Factory Warheuse
Coats - Cpital                                    --      4.793       9,586       4,793         --          --         --          --         --           -         --          --          --          --         --          --          ----                               --
-Reconnec                                --          - --       137         382         509        009         509        309         509        509         309        509         509         309         589        209         589         509        389         5099
Ronfi ts                                          7-          -           -        ,752      6,044       6,406       7,244      7 ,754      8.7295     8,889       8,889      8,809       8,089       8,889       8,089      8,089       8,909       8.889      0,009       0,899
Overall Flgo- -rd Tbbanc  In-a tont
Costs nf abn-eoapo...nta-Capta1               76,719     21,214      20,823      15,808       9,030      7,980       2,163      2,373       9,030      2,436       8,141      2,084       9,261       2.394       2,163      7,917       9,038       2,436      2,163       2,373
-ncIccn      2,5798      3,909      1,729      6,313       6,839       6,959      6,959       6,959      6,959       6,959      6,959       6,959       6,959       6,959      6,959       6,919       6,939      6,959       6,959       6,959
Coats of personnel1 tcan..port-lapttlI         7,839         104        104         104       7,859        104         104        104       7,859        104         104         104      7,859         104         186         104      7,839         104         104        1814
-Rcrot 337 7     3,418      3,459       3,326      3.526       3.526       3.526      3.576       3.526      3.526       3.526      3.526       3,526       3.526       3,526      3.526       3.526      3,526       3.326       3,326
...OlT f.I    10,703                                                73,840     34,383    45,057        45,050     44,388    47,368    49,592         51.047     51,047      51,047    51,047        51,47      51,040      51,847    51,040       31,0417   51,047    31,047
Pir-cu-d Tnba-n1c eot-onta
B.lkici Bags
Costa - Capital                                   647        084        454         390                ---                                      -  ---  ---     ---                    ---         ---        ---               ---
nece fits                                        ---       1,449,     2.901       2.540       2.338      1,520         ---          --.--                                        ---         ---                    -.          ..          ..
Coats -  aio                                     974       1,376      1,431       1,600         ---         ---        ---         ...        .---        ---        ---         ---         ---         ---        ---         ---         -------                            --
- llennrront                 ---         ~~~        ~~~         ~~20  48  77  109      109        109         109        109         109         109        189         109         109        109         109         189         109        109         109
B-cfics--                                                    536      1,088       1,717       2,371      2,587       2,777      3,076       3,980      3,138       3,139       3,238      3,138       3,138       3,138       3,139      3,138       3,130       3,138      3,130
Marketing Syt- t  oenooo
Coss.   Capitol                                8,657       5,877      3,995       3,124       2,695      4,326       1.050      1,113       2,695         630      5,096       2,498      7,800          700      1,850       3,409      2,765         630       1,050       1,113
R- Rcuret                                778       1,448      2,841       2,560      2,594       2,594       2,594      2,094       2,594      2,594       2,394       2,594      2,594       2,594       2,594      2,594       2,594       2,594       2,594      2,396
Benfits                                           ---      1,443      3,021       4,909       6,339       6,812      7,765      7,011       8,357       8,957      8,957       8,957       8,957      8,957       8,957       8,957      8,957       8,957       8,957       8,957
- Recurrent                  -- -       ~~~~       ~~~~326  402  402       402         402        402         402         402        402         402        402         402         402         402        402         402         402         402        402
Benfics                                           --          --      2,808       3,003       3,237       3,471      3,705       3,978      4,251       4,063      4,563       4,563       4,363      4,563       4,565       4,563      4,563       4,563       4,563       4,563
Cos9.ts - Capital.7ll                           8,671       7,637         --           -           -          -           -           -         --          --         --          --          --         --           -           -           -          -           -           -
- Occurrent                                --          89         178        178         178         178        178         178        178         178         178        178         178         178         178        178         178         179        170         170
BEn_fuc                                            -          -        3,086      3,'336      3,545       3,795      4,845       4,351      4,650       4,962      4,962       4.962       4,962       4,962      4.962       4,962       4,962      4.962       4,962       4,962
O-erel  Flra-nurndZTbacco ITneest~ttet
Coate of abe   cpcunCptal                     73,105      17,750      5,880       5,314       2,695       4,376      1,050       1,113      2,605         630      1,096       1,498       2,800         700       1,050      5,409       2,765         650      1,050       1,113
-BcRrour            770       1,093      2,665       3,217       3,203      3,283       3,783      3,283       3,283       3,283      3,703       3,283       3,283       3,283      3,283       3,283       3,283      3,293       3,203       3.283
Costs of panelTr,,-Pc-Cs~pita'l                   726         35          35          35        726          35          35         35         026         35          33          335       726'         35          35          35        726          35          35         35
-Racorro-t       341         332        363         373         373        373         373         375        375         303        373         37          373         37         37          373         37           "3        37           7
Bene.fits                                         ---      3, 428    12, 984     85,513      10,858     17,386      17,792      19,166     20,345      21,620     21,620      21,620      21,620      21,620    21,620    71,620    22,670          21,628      71,'620     22,'620
Overall    Ines    f lug-nurd and
fire..-crd  i__-totr   -. CeOtl                 49,324      38,944    26,703    21.122         20,310    11,740         3,335      3,608      20,310      3,~198     13,~359      4,594     20,646       3,216       :3,335    11,448      20,388       3.189       3,335       3,688
- Recurrent     ~7,074       9,561     12,020      13,629     14,140      14,141      14,141    14,141       14,141     14,041      14,141      14,141     14,141      14,141      14,141       414,41     14,141     14,141      14,141      14,141
Otaff and technical ass.ist .nt    tout          4,032       2,805       2,88       3,339          ---        ---         ----                                                                                         --          --          --
Total benfice--                                             13,637      36,8204    50,096      62,904      63,036     62,080    66,334        69,937     72,667      7 2, 667    72,667     72,667      72,667      7 2 ,66 7   72,667     72,667      72,667      72,667      72,6670
April 14, 1970



-74-                                  ANNEX 2
TANZANIA
Tobacco Handling Project
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected reports on the tobacco sub-sector
A.1     The feasibility of auctions for Tanzanian tobacco, Canadian
I7nternational Development Agency, 1971
B. Selected reports on the Project
B.1     NADP Phase I Project Preparation Report, two volumes,
Government of Tanzania, 1977
C. Selected working papers
C.1     Report on Project civil works elements, by D. Low and
G. Bailey, consultants
C.2     Tobacco production data by villages, 1975/76 and 1976/77
C.3     TAT financial projections, 1978/82



IBRD 13360
.G1~                     ->-          --UN-/.<     KE     f:                   r                                                                          rl        A,  --''-;-  -  A  7I'  76
r                           t~~~~~~AWANIA
;;z -              *               ti      j   f   L o r <3gV / C    0  R  /A g
r                                      Bukoba                               TrriN                 |                    TOBACCO  ANDNG PROJ  .  EJEC
S~~5ir-r- U vu t  AL                                                             tAA1k0 *    'Bukino                                                U
' *amiremA
Bi1 e1 rit r      -              2              Luguru              Olduwai
7gSfii0t03Wl  ! //iUir                        W X           S   alikungu                          Mondu Ui -                                             X
hin, I\9! ,-\ MAN YARA                              -        \                        NZIBAR
)r r [ rw r \> i~~~/ 9~___t y; > i  rz1/9t /Rungwa ) ' '' \ 9,~~~AR EqS SALAAM
11 0    o       X                                            X 4>MSK+yna  M uua Mceke
4    1        .X  ,i  (                                                                    bL  I"I  w
OK. S.nanna*aFaUr\, A4   U t
MdKBrakpnOflanCAna ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~al
Ki9                                                                        Singid -    -V   -u                                   Nachingwed T
iSan 'aIo nr.C K,;n d any'                                     - Cj ,.,f; t
- ~  ~    ~    -m 9/           itm~ Ba  t; t4OZAs,            h    lP      ~      ~             B=IqNEwuc,< ;.      Lt
A g                                                             -  P -             P                            U           = = w E S S ;bS L - z z r  r  * eb F   s  \ s nu o n   u  .  4
ri K  q -u X5 LrUwtt    1SQmcsy,<)4e tIPU<5 o;"l  L  
1 | 1   _ Q  At  = i | L _ $ E 1   ~ ~ ~     ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~        MB



