Document of
The World Bank
Report No    21424 BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$69 6 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE STATE OF BAHIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE
REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
BAHIA EDUCATION PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE PROGRAM
November 28, 2000
Human Development Management Unit
Country Management Unit for Brazil
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 04/2000)
Currency Unit = Real
R$1.80 = US$1.00
HiSCAL YEAR                                                             SCHOOL YEAR
January I - December 31                                                 February-December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AJABAHIA    Bahian Adult Literacy program
COPE          Program Coordination Unit
DIREC         Regional Education Directorate (Directoria Regional de Educa,co)
Escola Jovem   Middle Education Improvement and Expansion Project (IDB) (Programa de Melhoria e
Expansdo do Ensino Medio)
Faz Cidadao!    Government of Bahia Program (involving education, health, and infrastructure) to reduce
poverty in 100 of the poorest municipalities
FPE           Fundo de Participa,do dos Estados
FUNDEF        Fund for the Development and Maintenance of Basic Education and Teacher Valorization
(Fundo de Desenvolvimento e Manuten,co do Ensino Fundamental e Valorizaqao do
Magisterio)
FUNDESCOLA School Improvement Project (Programa Fundo de Fortalecimento da Escola)
IAT           State Teacher Training Institute (Instituto Anisio Teixera)
IDE           Economic Development Index (Indice de Desenvolvimento Economico)
IDS           Social Development Index (Indice de Desenvolvimento Social)
IGDS          Socioeconomic Development Index (Indice Geral de Desenvolvimento Socioecon6mico)
INEP          National Institute for Educational and Research Studies (Instituto Nacional de Estudios e
Pesquisas Educacionais)
LCB           National Education Law (Lei de Diretrizes e Bases de Educa,do Nacional)
MIS           Management Information System
NGO           Non-Government Organizations
PDE           School Development Plan (Projeto de Desenvolvimento Escolar)
PDD           Regional Plan for Educational Development
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
Proforma,ao   MEC Teacher Certification Program for leigos
PME           School Improvement Projects (Projeto de Melhoria da Escola)
PNAD          Household Survey (Pesquisa Nacional por Amostragem de Domicilios)
SAEB          National System for Basic Education Evaluation (Sistema Nacional de Avalia,co da
Educa,cao Basica)
SEC           Bahia Secretariat of Education (Secretaria de Educag,ao e Cultura do Estado da Bahia)
SEI           Bahia: Department of Economic and Social Studies (Superintendencia de Estndos
Econornicos e Socias da Bahia)
SIAD          Integrated Performance Evaluation System (Sistemna Integrado de Avalia,do do Desempenho)
SIED          Integrated Education Information System (Sistema Integrado de Informa,ces Educacionais)
SUCAB         Bahia Department of Public Works (Superintendencia de Constru,ces Administrativas da
Bahia)
UE            School Council (Unidade Executora)
Vice President:   David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director:  Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Alberto Rodriguez



Brazil
BAHIA EDUCATION PROGRAM
CONTENTS
A   Program   Purpose and  Development Objective .................................................................2
1. Program  purpose and program  phasing .................................................................2
2. Program  development objective .................................................................2
3. Program  performance indicators ................................................................                                              2
B Strategic Context ................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .............................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................................... ..................6
4. Program  description and performance triggers for subsequent loans ....................................... 8
C Project Description Summary ................................................................                                                               10
1. Project components ................................................................                                                          10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ......................................................... 12
3. Benefits and target population ................................................................                                               14
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements ................................................................                               14
D Project Rationale ................................................................                                                                         15
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ................................................................  15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ............................ 18
3. Lessons learned and reflected  in the project design ........................................................                       ........ 18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................................                              19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ................................................................                                 20
E Summary Project Analysis ................................................................                                                                  21
1. Economic ................................................................ 21
2. Financial ............................................................... 21
3. Technical ................................................................                                                                   22
4. Institutional ............................................................... 23
5. Social ...............................................................                                                                       23
6. Environmental assessment ............................................................... 24
7. Participatory approach ............................................................... 24
F Sustainability and Risks ................................................................                                                                  25
1. Sustainability ...............................................................                                                               25
2. Critical risks ............................................................... 27
3. Possible controversial aspects ................................................................ 27
G Main Loan Conditions ...............................................................                                                                       28
1. Effectiveness conditions ...............................................................                                                     28



H Readiness for Implementation ........................                                                                                                       28
I Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                                                                                                     29
Annexes
Annex 1             Project Design Summary ....................................................................                                              30
Annex 2             Detailed Program  Description ...................................................................                                        34
Annex 3             Estimated Project Costs ...................................................................                                              42
Annex 4             Economic Analysis ...................................................................                                                    43
Annex 5             Financial Analysis ....................................................................                                                  53
Annex 6             Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ..................................................   58
Annex 7             Project Processing Budget and Schedule ..........................................................   65
Annex 8             Documents in Project File ....................................................................                                           66
Annex 9             Statement of Loans and Credits ....................................................................    68
Annex 10    Country at a Glance ...................................................................                                                          70
Annex  11           Social and  Beneficiary Assessment ..................................................................    72
Annex 12   Poverty Analysis ...................................................................                                                              77
Annex 13    Institutional Analysis ....................................................................                                                      82
Annex 14    Municipalities Participating in the Faz Cidadao Program ......................................  86
Map



BRAZIL BAHIA EDUCATION
Project Appraisal Document
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN REGION
BRAZIL COUNTRY UNIT
Date: November 28, 2000                                      Team Leader: Alberto Rodriguez
Country Manager/Director: Gobind T. Nankani                  Sector Manager/Director: Jamil Salmi
Project ID: P059565                                          Sector: EY - Other Education
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)             Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention:       [X]  Yes   []  No
APL             lhd1att PeFilkang                >ed Impleaen   on erid   ak FY)                  rrower
IBM)       %     Others           Total         Commitment        comEleton
US n             US m             US m          Date               Date
APL 1         69.60      60    46.40             116.00       05/01/2000          12/31/2002       State of Bahia
loawnCredit                                     __
APL2          60.00      60    40.00            100.00        01/01/2003          12/31/2004       State of Bahia
Loa in/C eit__                      _  _  _   _  _  _   _  __                        _   _  _   _  _    _   _  _  _   _
Total         129.6      _      6.40            216.00                      .
Grace period (years)nt:  5aMfftOthr  pftfy
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 69.6
Proposed trms: TI-[- T-o be defined       [X] Multicurrency            []Single currency
,            [X] Standard Variable        [ ] ~~~Fixed        | []|LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):5
Years to maturity:              1 5
CZo-mmitment fee:               0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:     1.0%
source                                   Local ''           -                     Total
Government                                                         31.3                 15.1                 46.4
IBRD                                                               5 8.4                11.2                 69.6
Total:                                                             89.7                 26.3                116.0
Borrower: STATE OF BAHIA
Guarantor: FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
Responsible agency: SECRETARIA DE EDUCAC;AO
Annual                  40             so             26III
Cumulative              40             90            116
Project implementation period: 2 Years, 9 Months
Expected effectiveness date: 03/20/2000                        Expected completion date: 12/31/2002



Bahia Education Program                                                               Page 2
A. Program Purpose and Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing
The purpose of the Bahia Education Program is to assist the Government of Bahia in its effort to
improve the educational system and respond to the demands and needs of the Bahian population.
The program complements numerous Government actions and focuses on improving fundamental'
and secondary school quality, increasing access to secondary schools, and improving system
management. The program is designed as a 4.5 year effort, with a first phase (Project I; 2.5 years) of
US$116 million and a second phase (Project II; 2 years) of US$100 million. Most activities to be
financed by Project II are a natural continuation of those to be financed in Project I.
2. Program development objective (see Annex 1)
The development objectives of the Bahia Education Program are to: (a) improve fundamental and
secondary school outcomes, as measured by improvements in dropout and promotion rates and
student performance on standardized tests; and (b) increase access to secondary school, as measured
by an increase in secondary enrollments.
3. Program performance indicators (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators for the Program objectives (to be achieved by December 2004) are
to:
•  Reduce secondary and fundamental cycle drop-out rates by 6 and 3 percentage points,
respectively.
- Increase promotion rates of fundamental cycle students by 15 percentage points.
Increase promotion rates of secondary cycle students by 11 percentage points.
* Increase net secondary enrollment rates by 14 percentage points.
Increase average performance of secondary and fundamental cycle students in Portuguese and
Math by 5 percent.
- Increase promotion rates of fundamental cycle students residing in the 100 poorest municipalities
by 10 percentage points.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
(see Annex I)
Document number 20160-BR           Date of latest CAS discussion March 30, 2000
The overall CAS goal is to promote sustainable long-term growth, alleviate poverty and reduce
income inequality in Brazil, while the specific education sector goal of the CAS is to achieve
universal primary education by 2007 and improve educational performance in basic subjects,
particularly Portuguese and Math. Targeting efforts to improve educational access and quality for the
poor is also a high priority.
The project is in line with CAS goals in its emphasis on improving school outcomes and student
achievement levels. The project addresses the goal of universal primary education by attempting to
"Fundamental" school throughout this document refers to grades 1-8, which in Brazil is known as the "fundamental
cycle," or "ensinofundamental' - a unification of the old primary (grades 1-4) and lower secondary (grades 5-8) systems.
"Secondary" in this document refers to grades 9-11.



Bahia Education Program                                                               Page 3
improve education quality, thereby lowering the high dropout and repetition rates that characterize
the Bahian education system.
The project also adheres to CAS goals in its geographic focus on Bahia and explicit targeting of
fundamental schools in the state's 100 poorest municipalities. Located in the Northeast, one of
Brazil's least developed regions, Bahia is home to an estimated four million people living below the
poverty line, more than any other Brazilian state. Nearly 30 percent of adults in Bahia age 20 and
above are illiterate, compared to 15 percent for Brazil as a whole. Enrollment rates at both the
primary and secondary levels in Bahia are lower than the countrywide average, and statistics also
indicate that nearly 9.5 percent of 15-19 year olds in Bahia cannot read. Only 4 percent of the adult
population in Bahia has completed secondary school, creating a serious lack of human capital for the
economic development of the state as a whole.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Main Sector Issues
Low enrollment rates
Education is compulsory in Brazil through the fundamental cycle (eight years, from I st to 8th grade).
Despite the creation of additional school places in recent years, Bahia continues to have one of the
lowest enrollment rates in the country: of the 2.5 million children aged 7-14, nearly 20 percent are
out of school. Low levels of primary school enrollment have three main sources: (a) insufficient or
poorly distributed school places; (b) high repetition leading to dropout; and (c) lack of demand by
parents or children.
At the secondary level, the situation is even more stark: only 20 percent of the 15-19 age population
in Bahia is enrolled in secondary school. Low enrollment rates at the secondary level are attributable
to: (a) high repetition rates at the primary level, leading to large age-grade gaps and rising
opportunity cost of schooling; (b) lack of relevance; and (c) insufficient supply of places at the
secondary level.  The distribution of secondary school places is highly unequal, resulting in
disparities among and between income groups, interior and coastal regions, and urban and rural
areas. For example, 23 municipalities do not offer complete secondary school services. Nonetheless,
demand for secondary education is clearly growing: enrollment at the secondary level increased by
50 percent from 1991-1996, while the number of graduates increased by 34 percent.
High repetition and age-grade distortion
Bank-supported sector work and other studies confirm that students who repeat are more likely to
repeat again and eventually drop out.2 In the case of Bahia, repetition rates for the fundamental cycle
are 21 percent, while 80 percent of primary students are older than they should be for their respective
grades. Age-grade distortion is the cumulative result of late-entry to school (especially in rural areas)
and a chronic grade repetition syndrome across the Brazilian system. As a result, students take, on
average, 11.2 years to complete the mandatory eight-year fundamental education cycle, and many
drop out before completing it.
Low teacher and principal qualifications and skills
Until recently, there have been no uniform standards for appointing school principals in Bahia.
Instead, principals were frequently appointed through mechanisms that ignored their qualifications
and skills. Teacher qualifications are also low: out of a total of 109,675 fundamental school teachers,
more than 19 percent are considered "lay teachers" in accordance with the National Education Law
2Brazil Ministry of Education, World Bank, and UNICEF. "A Call to Action: Combating School Failure in the Northeast
of Brazil." June 1997.



Bahia Educabon Program                                                                Page 4
(LDB) which requires that primary teachers (1-4) hold at least a normal school teaching certificate
and lower secondary teachers (5-8) possess a university teaching certificate and diploma in their area
of specialty. At the secondary level, 9,980 out of 19,089 teachers lack the required university-level
teaching certificate. More worrisome still, fully 9,736 primary teachers have not completed the eight
year fundamental cycle themselves.
Efforts to improve principal and teacher skill levels have in many instances been flawed. School
principals, for example, are not trained to play a leadership role. Most in-service training for teachers
requires them to leave their posts, often without the provision of substitutes. Centralized training
programs often do not take advantage of the potential of other education institutions, such as
universities, and lack mechanisms to follow up on the impact of training on in-class teacher practice.
Lack of relevance
Qualitative research conducted in Bahia3 has revealed that children and adolescents recognize the
connection between higher levels of education and better jobs. Nonetheless, there is also a clear
disconnect between what is taught in the classroom and students' experience outside of school, either
at home or in the workplace. This lack of relevance (and often sheer boredom) is a contributing
factor to both repetition and dropout. In a 1996 Living Standards Survey, an estimated 23 percent of
poor 7-14 year olds and 41 percent of poor 15-17 year olds who were out of school cited "lack of
interest" as their main reason for not attending.
While the changing economy has led to increasing demand for education credentials, it has also
increased the number of low-pay, low educational employment opportunities, thereby increasing the
opportunity cost (especially for the poor) of remaining in school. Secondary school students, whose
profile includes a diverse range of age groups, interests, and work-study situations, should feel that
their education is worth the time and effort invested. In 1997, 43.5 percent of secondary school
students in Bahia were employed, which explains why almost 50 percent of those who study at the
secondary level do so at night.
Weak municipal-state system coordination
The presence of a state education system and 415 municipal education systems without effective
coordination makes the administration of public schooling in Bahia unnecessarily inefficient in
responding to common challenges. These dual administrative systems often function in parallel
making it difficult to optimize resources, engendering inequality of opportunities, and facilitating the
practice of political patronage.
Lack of schoolfocus
Many municipal education secretaries and state-level officials do not see the school as their primary
client, serving instead other political agencies (such as the mayor, governor, or local legislators).
This lack of focus on the school is reinforced by the highly centralized nature of state and municipal
systems. Centralized institutions determine all aspects of policy, from curricular initiatives to teacher
training, and rarely promote school level autonomy or initiative. The absence of a school-level
assessment exam limits understanding of school performance and further reduces focus and
accountability at the school and system level.
Inadequate physical inputs
It is estimated that more than half of primary schools and nearly one-third of secondary schools in
Bahia do not have the physical inputs necessary to assure the minimum conditions for learning.
3Portela e Bastos, "Educacao, Escola e Comunidade," 1997, Gurgel, "Ditos Sobre Sucesso Escolar" 1998 and Gurgel,
"Ditos Sobre Evasao Escolar " 1997.



Bahia Education Program                                                            Page 5
Schools that are incomplete in any one of the essential elements for their category (based on the
number of students and classrooms) are considered unable to provide children with the opportunity to
learn. As indicated by 1997 SAEB results, schools with inadequate physical inputs also tend to
demonstrate much lower levels of achievement.
Poverty relatedfactors
In Brazil, about 4.6 million youths between the ages of ten and seventeen work and attend school,
while 2.7 million work rather than go to school. Of children aged 10-14 in the Northeast, 20 percent
work outside the home more than forty hours per week. Widespread poverty directly affects both
student performance and incentive to go to school, as parents compare the benefits of an additional
income earner and household support against future gains from additional schooling.
Government Strategy
After a long period of neglect, education has been among the Federal Government's top priorities in
recent years. Federal efforts to address long-standing issues in the education sector include: (a)
amendment of the Constitution, and passage of a new education financing law (FUINDEF) designed
to address inequities in education funding by guaranteeing a minimum per-student expenditure across
the nation for students in grades 1-8; (b) passage of the 1996 Education Law (LDB), which further
defines government spheres of responsibility in the provision and financing of education and
establishes minimum pre-service training qualifications for teachers; (c) direct transfer of federal
funds to schools, in an effort to increase school autonomy and effectiveness; and (d) improvement of
education quality, through a national assessment system (SAEB), a textbook quality and distribution
improvement program, and national standards for curriculum development, including new curricular
guidelines for the secondary level.
The Government of Bahia is committed to raising educational quality and outcomes within the new
realities of Brazilian education legislation and finance. The Government of Bahia has developed an
ambitious education program ("Educar para Vencer") with the objective of providing all Bahians
with access to quality basic education. The program has six main lines of action, as follows: (a)
correction of student flow, reducing the age-grade distortion from 68 to 34 percent; (b) teacher
development, through distance education and training; (c) professionalization of education
management by way of certification of school principals and teachers interested in management; (d)
establishment of minimum operation standards for schools; (e) redefinition of the State
Government's role within the education sector as a provider of technical and managerial assistance to
all schools (both state and municipal); and (f) training of municipal secretaries of education to
manage their schools in an effective manner. The Bahia Education Program will focus on some of
these actions, as well as the cornerstone effort of the government's poverty alleviation strategy: Faz
Cidada7o (described in C.2).
Recent state government efforts along these lines include the initiation in 1997 of a program (Inter-
Redes) to promote greater rationalization of resources through the gradual transfer of state schools to
municipal management. Under this program, responsibility for preschool education has been given
to municipalities (in line with the new guidelines set out in the LDB), and fundamental cycle schools
will be gradually transferred to municipal governments (beginning with grades 1-4). Efforts to
improve system and school management have extended to SEC, regional directorships (DIRECs),
and to the school level. For example, in cooperation with the Northeast Basic Education Project, the
state trained 554 educational mobilizers who work with more than 3,800 state fundamental cycle
schools in strengthening school councils (Unidades Executoras-UE). Past school-level assessment
initiatives include the SIAD, which provided a useful initial experience in carrying out large-scale
student testing.



Bahia Education Program                                                                  Page 6
Bahia has also put considerable effort into expanding access, although much still needs to be done.
With the assistance of the Northeast Basic Education Project, Bahia from 1995-1997 constructed,
reformed or expanded 1,143 fundamental cycle schools, providing about 60,000 new places. At the
secondary level 17 new model secondary schools will have been inaugurated by the end of 1999,
providing places for 24,200 students. Efforts to expand access to education for those whom the
traditional school system has failed include innovative projects such as AJABAHIA, a literacy
program for youth and adults, that provides training to literate adults so that they in turn can provide
literacy training to adults within their communities. The program, established in 1996, has trained
more than 12,000 "literacy mentors" who have taught almost 500,000 youth and adults.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the program and strategic choices
The main sector issues to be addressed by the Bahia Education Program include: (a) reducing
repetition and dropout through improvements in school quality; (b) meeting the increased demand for
secondary education; (c) improving educational management; and (d) targeting the poor.
Quality
Improvement in the quality and relevance of schooling is essential for creating an environment for
student success.  The Bahia Education Program  embraces the notion that school autonomy
accompanied by strong community involvement in schools is the best avenue to improve school
quality. As a result, secondary and primary school quality will be addressed principally through the
promotion of a School Development Process (PDE) and the financing of direct school grants to
increase autonomy and efficiency. This approach addresses the repeated lack of relevance of
centrally-designed investments while making schools more purposeful institutions. By means of
direct school grants, schools will be able to acquire inputs and materials and enhance human
resources. In addition, the state will support investments in state and municipal fundamental cycle
schools in order to bring them up to minimum operational standards4 in terms of basic inputs and
infrastructure: prerequisites for children to have the opportunity to learn at school. Finally, the
program will support shorter-term efforts to reduce age-grade distortion and dropout through special
"accelerated classes," designed to give multiple repeaters the extra help needed to "catch up" to their
peers.
Access
As discussed above, Brazil recently implemented the FUNDEF, which guarantees a minimum
investment per fundamental cycle student. One outcome of this policy is the shift of significant
resources from the state to the municipal level, as more fundamental cycle schools fall under
municipal administration. Though this change will strengthen chronically under-funded municipal
fundamental cycle schools, there is widespread concern about funding secondary education. The
Bahia Education Program will contribute to address both the growing demand for access to
secondary school and the currently unequal and inefficient distribution of the supply of secondary
school places.  Three strategies will be used:  (a) a microplanning exercise, leading to the
reorganization of existing school places and a more accurate determination of the need for additional
space; (b) expansion of existing schools and classrooms; and (c) new school construction. It is
expected that expanding secondary access will increase educational opportunities for poorer
populations, irrespective of their geographical location as: (a) wealthier regions have more private
4 The minimum operational standards model functions as a checklist that specifies the essential inputs and human
resources needed for schools to function and offer children the opportunity to learn. Schools are surveyed using this
checklist, and then investments needed to bring each school up to standard are specified and costed out. This model is
also being used in the Salvador metropolitan microregion as part of the FUNDESCOLA program.



Bahia Education Program                                                            Page 7
schools, leaving public school places to lower income groups; and (b) in poorer areas where there are
no private schools, school places tend to be occupied by higher income groups.
Management
The most recent school effectiveness research suggests that the educational environment has a
significant impact on student achievement. An effective educational management system provides:
(a) clear standards for schools; (b) strong support systems that assist schools in achieving these
standards; (c) consistent and objective assessment of schools; and (d) consequences (good and bad)
for schools which achieve or fail to meet their targets. The Bahia Education Program will promote
effective management of the school system with the aim of elevating overall quality, equity, and
efficiency. The key areas of action envisioned are: (a) increased accountability through the extension
of a school-level student assessment system; (b) improved mechanisms for selection, recruitment,
and training of education managers at all levels; and (c) the implementation and funding of a PDD
(Regional Plan for Educational Development) to be developed by each regional office (DIREC), and
funded by SEC through a Contract of Outcomes. This last action should foster the reorientation of
the mission and capacity of DIREC as the vehicle for the SEC to provide school-focused, technical
support-an essential accompaniment to greater school autonomy.
Poverty
Education investments in Bahia have consistently met with difficulties in attending to the poor. This
program will help break this tradition of under-investment in the poor by: (a) focusing significant
investments in the 100 poorest municipalities; (b) special efforts towards incorporating evening and
traditionally marginalized students (again, largely through the PDE process); and (c) investing in
special programs ("accelerated classes") for overage children with a history of school failure, among
whom poor children are disproportionately represented. A more complete analysis of the poverty
issues particular to Bahia and how this program intends to address them can be found in Annex 12.
The program design and choice of sector issues also takes into account several federally-sponsored
programs from which Bahia is currently benefiting. The most important of these are the World
Bank-financed FUNDESCOLA program, which focuses on improvement of education quality at the
fundamental cycle level, and the Inter-American Bank-financed Escola Jovem project, which is
supporting curricular reform  and the expansion of access at the secondary level.  A table
summarizing the sector issues to be addressed by each project is presented below.
Considerable care has been taken to avoid duplication and ensure complementarity across projects.
The proposed program, for example, does not address expansion of access to the fundamental cycle,
as it was determined that this need was adequately covered through ongoing efforts by the SEC,
municipalities, and the federal government both separate from and in conjunction with the
FUNDESCOLA program. Both the proposed Bahia Education Program and the Escola Jovem
Project are investing in access to secondary schooling; however, demand for secondary is believed to
justify this level of investment and Bahia has agreed to coordinate both projects by targeting them for
distinct geographic areas. Whereas both FUNDESCOLA and the proposed program are promoting
school autonomy through the use of PDE, FUNDESCOLA will at least initially cover only
fundamental schools in the Salvador metropolitan region, while the Bahia Education Program targets
fundamental cycle schools in the 100 poorest municipalities as well as secondary schools. The use of
similar methodology and instruments should simplify project implementation for the SEC, while
testing the strategy in widely different geographic and institutional settings should provide valuable
feedback as to its strengths, limitations, and possibilities of expansion.



Bahia Education Program                                                                        Page 8
.  Access to Eundamel m  _                           |                                      X
*  Quality/School Inputs                             |       X                              X
*  PDE/PME (autonomy)                        X               X
*  Teacher Development                               |                                      X
*  Flow Correction  )X
•  Access to EM                          X               x               X
*  Quality/School Inputs                             l                      X        l  
4   PDE/PME (autonomy)                       X p  t   f     s
.  Teacher Development                             l                            t  mro  Xso
*  SEC (central)                                     I               I       X       I      X       I
a  DIREC (regional)                          X i  i  e  o
s  School                                    Xt                n X   1   p       
A  State-Municipal Coord.                                       o  o t            l         X  P
atonomy; (c) thXeM prmoio   o  ,  .,,00f aceeae   clse, toS diins  ag-rd   dIsotn  in the
fudmna cycl; (d)t0 use0 of mirpanngt aiieT use............ of existng pac an  as a perqIsxIt
m. Program  description and performance triggers for subsequent loans
The Bahia Education Program consists of complementary strategies designed to improve school
quality and outcomes, expand equitable access to secondary education, improve system management,
and address longstanding inequities in educational opportunities.  As described above, these
strategies include: (a) focussed attention on school conditions in the 100 poorest municipalities (see
Annex 14 for a complete list of these municipalities); (b) promotion of the School Development Plan
(PDE)  and School Improvement Grants (PMEs) as the main instruments for improving school
autonomy;  (c) the promotion of accelerated classes, to diminish age-grade distortion in the
fundamental cycle; (d) use of microplanning to maximize use of existing space and as a pre-requisite
to additional building; and (e) promoting greater school focus and accountability in system
management through the use of planning tools, performance contracts, recruitment standards and
objective evaluation information.
Through Project I, the Government of Bahia will: (a) provide minimum operation standards to
schools in poor municipalities; (b) design and test establishment of School Improvement Plans (PDE)
in primary schools, secondary schools, and regional offices; (c) initiate the provision of secondary
school places through reorganization of the system and some initial construction of classrooms and
schools; and (d) design and test interventions to enhance system  management (i.e. system-wide
assessment of student achievement; selection, training, and certification of school leaders).
Through Project II, the Government of Bahia will: (a) expand the implementation of PDE's in
schools and regional offices; (b) expand the provision of secondary school places through
construction of classrooms and schools; and (c) consolidate the student assessment and leadership
certification systems initiated in Project I.
Performance triggers for the initiation of Project II are:
* Minimum standards attained in 70 percent of schools that expected to benefit during Project I
(estimate: 1,750 schools)



Bahia Education Program                                                                Page 9
*  Resources for PME have been transferred to 70 percent of schools that expect to benefit during
Project I (estimate: 530 secondary schools, and 110 primary schools)
*  At least 70 percent of the expected accelerated classes functioning (estimate: 7,700 turmas)
*  At least 70 percent of expected new school places created (estimate: 98,000 school places)
*  PDD developed and financed in at least 15 DIRECs
*  At least 70 percent of expected education management leaders trained (estimate: 1,750 leaders)
*  First school-level, SAEB-based standardized assessment implemented in all public, urban
schools located in the municipalities attended by Educarpara Vencer.



Bahia Education Program                                                                 Page 10
C. Project Description Summary5
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
1. Improving School Quality
1.1 Assuring minimum operational standards for schools
Through Project I of the Bahia Education Program, the state will ensure minimum operational
standards for all the 194 state fundamental cycle schools located in the 100 poorest municipalities
and for 2,500 fundamental cycle schools administered by the respective municipalities. This will be
done by means of an evaluation of all fundamental cycle schools in these 100 municipalities in order
to determine which schools are under the minimum standards.
1.2 Supporting the implementation of School Development Plans (PDE)
A team composed of existing SEC personnel, municipal education staff, and outside consultants (as
necessary) will be trained to guide the implementation of the PDE process. These teams will work
with school principals, central, and regional administrative staff throughout the PDE process and will
be responsible for: (a) training of selected school staff in the elaboration of the PDE; (b) mobilization
of the school and community; and (c) evaluation and monitoring of the implementation of the PDE.
The PDE process will benefit both fundamental and secondary schools. In Project I of the Bahia
Education Program, all public fundamental cycle schools that are (a) located in 50 of the 100 poorest
municipalities and (b) have over 200 students will be eligible, for an estimated 167 public schools.
All public secondary schools in Bahia (an estimated 458 state-managed secondary schools and 285
municipally-managed schools) will also be eligible to participate in the PDE process. It is expected
that at least 80 percent of eligible schools will participate.
1.3 Financing School Improvement Projects (PME)
School Improvement Projects will be developed from the completed PDEs. The PMEs will be
submitted to a forum of technical educational authorities for evaluation, and if approved, the school
will receive a direct transfer of funds, with which to develop its project. The amount of the transfer
depends on the PME activities, with a ceiling determined according to the number of students in the
school (see Annex 2 for details).
1.4 Implementing Accelerated Classes
The implementation of a broad program of "accelerated" or "catch up" classes for over-age children
in grades 5-8 is a key policy of the current government. This priority is consistent with the findings
of a recent World Bank/IDB study on secondary education in Brazil. In Bahia, this loan would
finance the implementation of the program in 60 municipalities. Through Project I of the Bahia
Education Program, an estimated 11,000 classes will be implemented, benefiting approximately
330,000 students.
2. Expanding Access
2.1 Planning and providing additional school places
In order to ensure the articulation and optimal use of existing state, municipal, and private resources
and facilities, the state is conducting a supply/demand analysis exercise and, based in the results, the
project will finance a structural reorganization of the secondary school system. New classroom and
5 This Project Description Summary refers to the investments planned under Project I of the APL. In Annex 2, the
activities for the full APL Program (that is, Project I and 11) are described.



Bahia Education Program                                                           Page 11
school construction will be undertaken only when revealed as absolutely necessary through the
reorganization process. Initial microplanning has estimated that structural reorganization of the
system could provide 50,000 additional places within existing facilities. Once the reorganization is
completed, it is estimated that Project I would finance 750 new classrooms, 10 new schools, and 4
new "model" schools for a total of more than 140,000 new places (reorganization and construction).
3. Strengthening Educational Management
3.1 Strengthening Educational Assessment
Under project auspices, the SEC will initiate the development of a continuous assessment system.
This system will complement the existing national system (SAEB), but will allow for school-level
analysis. The system will eventually cover all schools within the state system, both the fundamental
and secondary levels, and will be offered for voluntary participation to municipal and private
schools. Project I will finance system development and the initial applications of the exam. In
conjunction with universities and NGOs, SEC will support the creation of a critical mass of
professionals who will contribute to the development of educational evaluation in the state of Bahia.
An independent agency specialized in assessment will host the newly trained group of professionals.
3.2 Institutional strengthening of Educational Management
Recognizing its role as a source of technical assistance to the entire education system - both
municipal and state - the SEC and its regional offices (DIRECs) will reorient their mission away
from administrative supervision and toward front-line technical support to state schools and
municipal secretariats serving under-performing schools. For this purpose, all 33 DIRECs will
prepare Regional Education Development Plans (PDD) which are complementary to the school-
based PDE's, and will identify activities to be implemented to meet the goals of such regional plans.
Some of these activities will be funded through a direct transfer of funds to the DIRECs. Prior to the
transfer of resources, each DIREC will sign an "Outcomes Contract" with the SEC, which will hold
the DIREC accountable for effective use of its resources. It is expected that additional technical
expertise will be provided to DIRECs by universities and NGOs with demonstrated experience in
education management and instructional improvement. Project I will finance the preparation of the
PDD and a first transfer of funds to DIRECs for the implementation of the activities described in
their plan.
In an effort to upgrade the quality and commitment of education managers at the school level, SEC
will design and implement a new system of school principal certification. This system will include
(a) establishing minimum academic qualifications for school principals; (b) application of a
standardized exam to assess school leadership skills of all current and potential school principals; (c)
leadership training for those successfully passing the preliminary exam; (d) certification upon
successful completion of training; and (e) periodic re-certification to ensure updated skills. It is
expected that investments made as part of Project I will establish the certification system and will
yield the first 2,500 principals trained and in the process of being certified.
Finally, support to finalize the implementation of the SIIG will be provided under this project. SIIG
is an integrated information system that began design and implementation with the support of Projeto
Nordeste and Fundescola and that is now in the final phases of implementation.
3.3 Financing project management
The SEC (through COPE) will be responsible for the administration of the project. The project will
finance those COPE operating costs and consultant expenditures directly related to project activities.



Bahia Education Program                                                                         Page 12
3.4 Project monitoring and impact evaluation
The SEC will be responsible for monitoring of the project. For the impact evaluation, SEC will
commission studies to evaluate the mid-term progress and final impact of the project. (See annex 2
for additional information)
f fi iE l_S Xali ti    0    IPrimary and   1     58.1          50.0          41.4 ;      59.5 
0;i.10  0 0   00  000;   0  0  0| Secondary lllll
lg001.   ,,l2p~rting the ip mnta t:  Education   ll  
L3m                             ,.ig $   I o o
2. E~~p*4IngAcccss          Secondary           24.5          21.1             6.8        9.8
02ff;:;00\;itii\:; Plninj.nj ; | Education
7377777 $ ;* 0Institutional    24.0          20.7           12.0        17.2
Development
_                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~116.00  1 010.00l  69.601  100.0
_                                          ~~~~~~~~~~            ~      ~~~116.00  100.0  69.60t  1000
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The Bahia Education Program has been designed to support federal and state government programs
and to assist education management at the municipal and state levels in meeting the requirements of
recent national legislation. Relevant reforms include:
LDB
Brazil's 1996 Education Law stimulates innovation and initiative on the part of educational agents in
order to avoid excessive bureaucratization, gives priority to primary education, and strengthens the
role of the municipality in the provision of grades 1-8. Clearly outlining the responsibilities and roles
of each division of govemment, the LDB has been an important step in clarifying accountability and
setting high  standards at all levels of education.   The Bahia Education  Program  supports
implementation of the LDB through its efforts to improve state and municipal cooperation and



Bahia Education Program                                                           Page 13
management, as well as support-of increased state responsibility in the provision and financing of
secondary education.
FUNDEF
The FUNDEF, approved by the National Congress in December of 1996, established January 1998 as
the starting point for national FUJNDEF implementation within each state. The FUNDEF sets up
fixed criteria for allocating funds with the aim of raising standards of opportunity, quality, and equity
of education. Instrumental in assuring equitable resources among and between municipal and state
systems, the FUNDEF guaranteed R$315 per pupil/1998-99. By working directly with the 100
poorest municipalities in Bahia (those for whom the FUNDEF will dramatically increase education
funding), the proposed program should help ensure that newly available resources for fundamental
cycle education are used to best effect.
School Autonomy and Accountability
Federal education policy over the last few years has emphasized increased autonomy for schools,
manifest in the direct transfer of federal resources to schools begun in 1995. Concurrently, the
federal government has financed and implemented a state-of-the art system for assessing student
achievement across the nation. The proposed Bahia Education Program extends these strategies to
the state level, through PDE process and financing of school grants, as well as the development of a
school-level assessment system to complement the national sample-based one.
New Federal Curricular Guidelinesfor Secondary Education
In 1998, the federal government issued new curricular guidelines for secondary education. These
guidelines end the traditional division between "academic" and "technical" education, emphasizing
the need for a single, basic-skills oriented track at the secondary level. While 75 percent of the
curricular content is given in the guidelines, the remaining 25 percent is to be defined by individual
schools, in accordance with the needs and interests of their clientele. Through support for the PDE
process at the secondary level, the program should help schools better assess these needs and refine
their curriculum, improving overall relevance for students.
Faz Cidaddo!
The Bahia Education Program will support the Bahia State Government Program, Faz Cidaddo! to
achieve its objectives in education in the 100 poorest municipalities. The objectives of the program
are to improve the living conditions and create additional income opportunities for the least
developed municipalities in Bahia, creating self-sustainable communities by means of local
development. The program further aims to increase the well-being of the citizens of the selected
municipalities through the improvement in social services, especially in the areas of education,
health, public safety, employment, infrastructure, and agriculture. Selection criteria for the 100
municipalities, described in Annex 12, is based on a social and economic index similar to that of the
UN Human Development Index and conducted by the Bahia Department of Economic and Social
Studies (SEI).
Reorganization of SEC
With the installation of the new Secretary of Education the Secretariat has undergone an
administrative reorganization. Of particular importance in this new vision of how the secretariat
should operate is the decision to create a sub-secretariat specifically for attending to the needs of
municipalities. Particular responsibilities for this sub-secretariat include administration of the Inter-
Redes program and technical and management assistance to municipalities. SECs commitment to
supporting schools, regardless of the administrative system to which they pertain, is a first step in
reducing many of the disparities among schools.



Bahia Education Program                                                          Page 14
3. Benefits and target population
The principal beneficiaries of the Bahia Education Program are: (a) fundamental cycle students in
both state and municipal schools within the 100 poorest municipalities, who are either in or entering
school between 2000 and 2004 in Bahia (approximately 500.000 students); (b) students in grades 5-8
in state schools who have a history of repetition, and who will benefit from accelerated classes
(approximately 330,000 students); and (c) students in or entering state secondary schools from 2000
to 2004 in Bahia (approximately I million students). These young people will benefit from an
education system endowed with an increased number of school places, adequate learning materials,
autonomous schools, and more effective management at all administrative levels. Both municipal and
state primary and secondary systems will realize the benefits of improved management, including:
greater efficiency in resource allocation, demand driven curriculum design and professional
development, a shift in accountability to the local community, capacity to innovate and anticipate
change, and greater professionalism.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
The Bahia Education Program is expected to be implemented over a 4.5 year period, from July 2000
through December 2004. Project I will be implemented over 2.5 years, from July 2000 through
December 2002, while Project II will be implemented over 2 years from January 2003 through
December 2004. The program will be subject to regular evaluations every six months, with an
intense evaluation scheduled two years into the implementation of Project 1, in order to evaluate
progress on implementation and assess performance triggers.
The state SEC will be the principal executing agency for the program. As executing agent, SEC will
receive financing for project administration under both projects. SEC's main responsibilities will
include: (a) financial oversight of the program (b) coordination with line departments, regional
offices and external agencies responsible for program activities (c) coordination with municipal
governments participating in the program and (d) overall monitoring and evaluation activities to
ensure program quality and effectiveness. For the civil works component, SUCAB, the state civil
works agency, will have primary executing responsibilities and will oversee the contractors
performing the construction. For the student assessment component, a unit within the Federal
University of Bahia (UFBA) has been identified as an adjunct implementation unit. The SEC is also
planning to contract out the implementation of certain activities such as the principal certification
program.
SEC has developed a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) that describes the operational guidelines to
address the above implementation responsibilities. The PIP is accompanied by an operational manual
for school construction which provides guidelines for the civil works component of the Project. At
the core of SECs strategy is the establishment of COPE, a program implementation unit which has
the incentives to (a) integrate program activities within the wider array of SEC activities and projects
and (b) enhance and utilize the capacity of line units and external agencies to implement program
activities.
Overall responsibility for program implementation will rest with COPE. COPE is also responsible
for other ongoing donor supported projects within the SEC (e.g. Escola Jovem, FUNDESCOLA),
and thus will play an important role in ensuring the complementarity and coordination of activities
across projects.



Bahia Education Program                                                           Page 15
Responsibility for program financial management will rest with a designated financial management
unit under the supervision of COPE. A similar arrangement is planned for a designated procurement
unit.
Responsibility for program activities will be delegated to technical coordinators (articuladores) who
will work directly with the SEC line units or external agencies (e.g. private firms, NGOs,
universities) assigned to actually implement activities. Technical coordinators will play a key role in
monitoring quality, trouble shooting implementation issues, and ensuring that project resources are
applied effectively.
SEC plans to use performance agreements as a key instrument to ensure accountability. Under the
PDD sub-component, each DIREC will sign a performance agreement with SEC. Under the PDE and
certification sub-components, SEC is signing performance agreements with school directors. Finally,
in those cases when municipal schools are too small to adequately implement the Minimum
Standards for rehabilitation, the corresponding municipality will be responsible for doing so and will
sign an agreement with the SEC. It is also expected that DIRECs will be assigned a significant role in
acting as a liaison with municipal governments and monitoring the effectiveness of state supported
investments
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
APL versus Traditional Project Design
The Bahia Education Program was originally conceived along traditional project lines. Two factors
have led the project team to seek a more flexible project instrument at this time. The first factor is the
relatively untested implementation capacity of the SEC in Bahia. Although the SEC has participated
in Bank-financed projects (Northeast Basic Education III, and currently FUNDESCOLA II), this will
be the first state-level Bank-financed project in education for Bahia. The lower level of exposure and
more flexible sequencing of the APL make it an appealing choice. The second factor is the financial
uncertainty facing Brazil as a whole, and the federal government's understandable caution regarding
the amount of debt (as guarantor) it is carrying at any one time. Under the APL design, both state
and federal governments can lower initial exposure and commitment fees, requesting additional
funds only as implementation and performance triggers are met.
Poverty Targeting/Demand versus Supply
The program's approach to targeting is primarily a geographic one and is also supply-side oriented.
The program will work with the 100 poorest municipalities, investing in school inputs and planning
processes. Other alternatives considered addressed the demand side of access. One promising
strategy to attract and maintain poor children in school is the bolsa escola program. This is an
experimental program which provides stipends to families of eligible fundamental cycle children so
long as they are enrolled in school and maintain a minimum grade point average. The Faz Cidaddo
Program in Bahia is experimenting with a bolsa-escola approach within the 100 poorest
municipalities. Given these existing efforts, it was decided to keep the Bahia Education Program
focused on improving the supply-side of the education equation.
Quality
Alternatives for improving the quality of basic schooling for all included: (a) establishment of a
completely bottom-up school-driven method for determining needs and resources; and (b)



Bahia Education Program                                                           Page 16
implementation of a entirely top-down model in order to ensure effective control at the state level.
The fully bottom-up alternative was rejected based on the evaluation of capacity at the school and
system level that indicated that school principals are not yet politically or technically capable of
adequately expressing and rapidly attaining their needs for school inputs within the structure of the
current system. High levels of control and centralized management at the state level would further
preclude school principals from effectively ensuring the best interests of the child.
The second alternative of a completely top-down method for ensuring school quality was rejected as
prior project experience and education sector evaluations have demonstrated that local interests need
to be considered in order to ensure effective implementation and use. In the case of school inputs,
definition of minimum standards at the state level, followed by a school-by school survey, will help
to guarantee that school needs are met while reducing costs due to mass purchase and distribution.
Curriculum reform was also rejected as the state has already made efforts in this area in accordance
with the recently launched national curricular parameters.
Teacher development and compensation
An explicit teacher training initiative is not considered in the project as Bahia's teachers are
benefiting from training through the Proformaqdo Project (financed by FUNDESCOLA), through the
IDB-financed Escola Jovem Project, and other state-wide initiatives financed by the State of Bahia.
Nonetheless, the project indirectly does provide resources for teacher development through two main
mechanisms: (a) the PDE, which can include teacher training activities, and (b) the Accelerated
Classes, which rely on teacher training, supervision, and support for their success. In terms of
teacher compensation, the recent implementation of FUNDEF has strongly modified the structure
and level of teacher compensation in Bahia (as well as in Brazil as a whole). In this regard, the
Bank's role over the coming years should focus on the development of knowledge and analysis of
data to assess the success or failure of FLJNDEF's intervention and its effect on teachers. To this end,
the Bank is currently undertaking a national study on teacher development and incentives in Brazil.
Access
Alternatives for the provision of additional secondary school places included reorganization of the
existing system without allowance for additional school places, and construction of school places
without microplanning. The first of these was rejected as it was determined that reorganization of the
existing structure would not be sufficient to ensure equitable access for all. Construction of additional
school places is to be contingent upon the results of microplanning as technical criteria in school
construction (based on area of coverage, population density, and in accordance with existing school
specifications) has been of secondary priority in educational planning. Transparent placement of
schools and school expansion will contribute greatly to minimize the politicking that has traditionally
accompanied school construction.
Management
Several alternative approaches to management reform were considered. First, an input intensive
approach, focusing on administrative infrastructure was examined. SEC and its district offices are
relatively well-equipped with modern communications, information management, and transportation
facilities, thus additional investments would add little value. Second, a capacity building approach
focused entirely on SEC staff, a strategy employed in past Bank supported projects was deemed
inappropriate given SEC's programmatic emphasis on decentralizing greater resources and autonomy
to schools and regional authorities. Focus, therefore, was needed on building management and
leadership skills among local managers and school leaders. A third alternative was to focus
institutional strengthening interventions entirely on state organizations and personnel. However, as
SEC reorients its role toward overall responsibility for quality across the state and municipal systems,
it was recognized that the success of the state system would depend highly upon the management



Bahia Education Program                                                               Page 17
capacity of municipal governments to deliver high quality education at the primary level. To that end,
efforts to improve inter-system coordination and to create incentives for municipal governments to
reach higher standards of service delivery are viewed as essential to creating a public system that
functions in an integrated, effective manner.
Other Education Levels
Preschool programs
The LDB establishes that preschool education is primarily the responsibility of municipal
governments. The importance of preschool education programs and their impact on future student
success have been examined in Brazil and other countries and cannot be overlooked. Before
embarking on a state-wide initiative for this sub-sector, however, it is important to learn from the
municipal experiences that the Bank is evaluating in other regions of Brazil.
Adult education
The costs associated with adult education, in terms of developing facilities, training, and hiring of
teachers and income foregone are very high. This project is based on the government's affirmation
that provision of quality basic education to all children is of highest priority. Furthermore, the
ongoing success of AJABAHIA, an adult literacy program, precluded the need for further
investment.
Higher education
The option of including higher education as an alternative for project investment was explored in two
ways: (a) as a possible sub-sector of investment, and (b) as a sub-sector where control or reduction
of investment is promoted such that overall macroeconomic and fiscal adjustment is achieved
without affecting investment in fundamental and secondary education.
Investment in higher education was discarded as it does not directly respond to the priority given to
poverty alleviation, the chief target of Bank support for social development. As outlined in the CAS,
regional development, especially in the Northeast, is to be focused on early childhood development,
primary, and secondary education.
Control or reduction of investment in higher education to achieve sectoral and macroeconomic
adjustments was also rejected for the following reasons: (a) higher education sector investments
account for 10 percent of the state education budget, lower than most other states, and lower than any
other state with such a limited supply of higher education (one federal and two private institutions,
which together with the state system provide less than 40,000 places in a state of 13 million
inhabitants); (b) state universities serve a more diverse socio-economic and geographically dispersed
population than either federal or private universities; and (c) state universities are the major source of
teachers for fundamental and secondary schools in Bahia (65 percent), demand for which is expected
to increase in accordance with the requirements of the LDB. Given these characteristics, an adequate
level of public investment in higher education should be accepted as a strategic investment to
maintain quality in fundamental and secondary schools.



Bahia Education Program                                                                                Page 18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned)
Primary education access and quality        Nrhast Basic Education I             Completed          Completed
Primnary education quality                  UbnBasic Education Project,          Comnpleted         Conipleted
"Monhangara"
Primary education access and quality        Northeast Basic Education 11            S                   S
Primary education quality                   Northeastern Basic Education III        S                  S
Primary education quality                   Innovations in Basic Education       Completed          Completed
Primary education quality                   Parand Education Quality                S                  S
Primary education quality                   Minas Gerais Pro-quality                S                  S
Primary education access, quality, and management  FUNDESCOLA I                     S                  S
Primary education access, quality, and management  FUNDESCOLA II                 Approved           Approved
Primarv education access, quality, and management  CearA Integrated Education Project  Planned       Planned
UNICEF                                       Child Rights focus Support to non-
government sector
Ford Foundation                              Ceara Early Child Development  Not started
Project
IDB                                          Escola Jovem Secondary Education  Not started
Program                       I
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
Following the lessons learned from the design and implementation process of the Northeast Basic
Education Projects (NEBE II, FY1993, Loan 3604-BR and NEBE III, FY1994, Loan 3663-BR),
prior Bank experience in Brazil including EDURURAL, FY1980, Loan 1867-BR), sector work, and
other international experience, the Bahia Education Program will incorporate those aspects that were
successful in achieving their intended objectives, avoiding those aspects that, upon evaluation, were
deemed incomplete or unattainable. More specifically, the project reflects the following lessons:
School Autonomy
The choice of school autonomy as a main strategy for improving the quality of education is
supported by international experience in numerous countries, including Chile, Uruguay. These
countries, as well as others in Latin America, have promoted school projects for the procurement of
context-appropriate materials and increasing stakeholder and community input. Also, the Colombian
PACES program promoted school autonomy by paving the way for direct transfer of funds to
secondary schools. These lessons are reflected in the design of the PDE/PME process.
Minimum Operational Standards
The inclusion of the concept of minimum operational standards for schools within the federal
FUNDESCOLA project has proven a useful and concrete tool to address long-standing educational
inequities. These standards have set an important precedent and are currently being adopted by many
states in Brazil. The inclusion of a minimum operational standards component within the Bahia
Education Program reflect the lessons learned to date from the implementation of FUNDESCOLA
and are in line with the state's current participation in that project.



Bahia Education Program                                                             Page 19
Accelerated Classes for grades 5-8
One of the main findings from the recent Brazil Secondary Education Study, "Time to Move
Forward," was the critical age/grade distortion in Northeast states and in Bahia in particular. This
large distortion is a result of high repetition rates and the existence of large numbers of children who
are caught in a cycle of serial repetition. The inclusion of accelerated classes as an intervention to
address this problem is based on successful experiences implemented elsewhere in Brazil (i.e. Sao
Paulo, Parana, and others).
Night Schools
The importance of addressing specific needs of night school students was also highlighted in the
secondary study cited above. Night school students are frequently older, employed, and may have
rich experiences in the workplace that complement formal education. Although the Bahia Education
Program has no specific night school focus, it will address this issue by tailoring the PDE/PME
process in public secondary schools to respond to the special needs of night school students.
Microplanning
Projects around the world, including Brazil's FUNDESCOLA, have demonstrated that it is possible
to apply technical criteria over and above other considerations to gain school places. Moreover, such
planning exercises have in many instances resulted in dramatic gains in the efficient use of existing
space. In the Bahia Education Program a preliminary microplanning strategy will be used both to
ensure efficient use of existing space and as a prerequisite to identify the need for additional
classrooms and schools.
Student assessment
Experiences in Chile, England, the United States and a host of other countries have illustrated the
benefits of school-level assessment. Based on the successful federal SAEB experience, the Bahia
Education Program will support the implementation of a continuous assessment system through
which the state will increase accountability to regional offices, municipalities and schools. This
assessment system will provide schools with the necessary information to adjust and enhance their
teaching practices based on the areas of major weakness. International and Federal lessons in this
regards have been key in the design of this Program activity. It will also supply state and regional
managers with the information they need to more precisely target additional resources and support to
low performing schools.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
As discussed at greater length in Section B.2 of this document, the Government of Bahia is
committed to improving educational quality and outcomes, as indicated by recent efforts in both
primary and secondary education. Over the last few years, the state government of Bahia has
consistently spent above the constitutionally required minimum in government education receipts.
State efforts have included: (a) expansion of access at the fundamental and secondary levels; (b)
increased municipal-state collaboration; (c) the initiation of "accelerated classes" to address age-
grade distortions; (d) initiation of state-level evaluation testing; and (e) promotion of greater parental
and community involvement in schooling through the formation of school councils. The best
assurance of borrower commitment to the Bahia Education Program is that it has been designed to
support and build upon many of the state's own strategies and actions.
Further indications of Borrower ownership include broad-based participation in project preparation,
and the implementation of an internal SEC administrative reform to better align line departments
with the strategies and activities proposed. Project preparation has benefited from the involvement of
working groups within the SEC, as well as from the involvement and support of the Secretaries of



Bahia Education Program                                                           Page 20
Planning and Finance, and outside actors such as universities and NGOs.  In order to better
strengthen state-municipal coordination as well as work with municipalities under the proposed
Bahia Education Program, the SEC recently created a separate department dealing with state-
municipal relations.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
Informed Cooperation
As the chief external financing institution in the area of basic education over the past ten years, the
Bank has had the opportunity of developing a well-informed and close familiarity with the key
education issues. More importantly, over the last few years it has built up a fluent dialogue with the
leading education authorities and institutions of Brazil. This dialogue has grown despite the presence
of ideological differences between a number of the key actors. The Bank has been able to play the
role of "honest broker" and "critical friend" in policy dialogue, and provide the continuity and
informed cooperation necessary to support the implementation of both development projects and
policy reform. The Bank has further played an important role in gathering a wide variety of
participants during project planning: the log-frame exercise for the Bahia Education Program, for
example, included the contribution of more than 15 institutions, including universities, NGOs, and
various sectors of government.
Local Knowledge
The Bank's information base is particularly strong with regard to educational issues in the Northeast.
Bank-initiated studies and reports such as "A Call to Action", the Secondary Education Study: "Time
to Move Forward', "Social Spending in Selected States", and "Financing Education in Brazil" have
focused on the Northeast, and especially Bahia as an area of great educational need. Bank education
and poverty sector work have facilitated the identification of poverty and regional imbalance issues,
which have in turn contributed to the Bahia Education Program's strategic choices. Experience
working with Bahia through federal projects such as Northeast Basic Education III and
FUNDESCOLA I has given the Bank a solid basis for project design. Through the preparation of
this program, the Bank has already been an important support for the structural reform of the SEC.
Innovation
Although World Bank-financed projects in Brazil differ from one another tremendously, all have
generated innovation. Examples include textbook development and student performance evaluation
from the Northeast Basic Education Projects, school strengthening in the Minas Gerais project,
teacher development and accelerated learning in Sao Paulo, and municipalization in Parana. Lessons
learned from these innovations have contributed to the policy dialogue with Bahia, and the
preparation of the proposed program. The Bank's ability to bring experience it gathers from basic
education projects in other countries in the region (as well as elsewhere in the world), particularly
with regard to the school development process, would also provide a tremendous benefit to the
Borrower. The analysis and inclusion of international reform experiences and best practice from
such countries as Great Britain, Australia, New Zealand, and El Salvador would further enrich the
development of the Bahia Education Program. The Bank has the ability to serve as a conduit to
current innovation and research results emerging from other national and state systems around the
world.



Bahia Education Program                                                            Page 21
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4)
Cost benefit NPV=US$4716 million; ERR = 23.67 %
Undergirding the Bahia Education Program's economic analysis is the fact that Bahia displays some
of the highest repetition and drop-out rates in Brazil. Low levels of educational attainment represent
a significant barrier to both increasing individual income and macroeconomic growth. High
repetition and dropout rates also translate into an elevated cost of both primary and secondary
education due to the high number of years of schooling necessary to produce a graduate at either
level of education. Through investing in educational inputs, school autonomy, the expansion of
secondary school, and the adoption of better management processes, the Bahia Education Program is
attempting to get more children through higher levels of schooling at a lower per-graduate cost.
The cost-benefit analysis was undertaken in the following manner: (a) the costs were estimated; (b)
the secondary level flow model was estimated for the state system; (c) a flow model for the
fundamental level was estimated for both state and municipal systems in the 100 poorest
municipalities in Bahia; (d) a historical trend was applied for both flow models, using the method
introduced by Ruben Klein (1999), in order to determine how the flows of students would look
without the project; (e) the impact of the project on the flows was estimated to the year 2007; (f) the
number of students that conclude each grade was predicted and the difference between the flows with
the project and without the project were determined; (g) given these differences, the out-of-school
benefits were calculated by using both the private rate of return to each grade of education and the
increment in productivity related to improvements in Math and Portuguese test scores; (h) in
performing the sensitivity analysis, the NPV and the IRR were calculated and tested for different
scenarios.
In the calculation of the IRR and the NPV, the sensitivity analysis considered nine possible scenarios
influenced by potential outcomes of income flows and productivity growth. The IRR results are as
follows (NPV results can be found in Annex 4).
Best            ~~~Middle                 Worst
le%,             26.38%                  22.58%                   20.81%
27.60%                 23.67%                    21.86%
S4Jo   28.81%          24.75%                    22.90%
The IRR for all scenarios is satisfactory. Even in the worst scenario, the internal rate of return is
greater than the Bank's standard discount rate of 10-12 percent, which indicates the capacity of the
project to generate substantial benefits. Another important feature is the low variability of the IRR
across the different scenarios. This means that, although the project does not yield enormous internal
rates of return, there is a high probability that gains will be positive and significantly above the
minimum requirement for investment yield.
2. Financial (see Annex 5)
To assess the state's ability to provide counterpart funding and service the proposed debt, projections
of each major item of cash flow and of the stock of debt were made for the period 2000-2005. The
proposed project is part of a two-phase APL, with the first phase to be implemented over 2.5 years at
a cost of US$ 116 million, and the second over two years at a cost of $100 million. Both phases are
included in this analysis. In addition, this analysis covers a parallel IBRD-financed APL in the health



Bahia Education Program                                                                Page 22
sector, with a total project cost of US$ 166.7 million to be implemented within approximately the
same time frame.
The result of these projections are summarized in the table below. As shown, the state is projected to
maintain a current account surplus of about 15 percent of revenues over the projection period, and an
overall surplus of about three percent of net current revenues. The debt:revenue ratio would decline
slightly (due to growth in revenues, rather than reductions in the stock of debt). Debt service, even
without existing federal debt service caps, would range from 13% to 15% of net current revenue.
The state should have little difficulty providing counterpart funding. At its peak (in 2003) counterpart
funding (on both phases of both APLs) would equal about 13 percent of the state's capital works
budget. The projects' debt implications are also modest. Total disbursements of both phases of the
two APLs would equal US$230 million, or about five percent of the total debt stock in 2004. Debt
service on the loans, once the grace period on amortization expired, would equal 0.9% percent of
net current revenues.
Overall fiscal results
current account surplus/net revenues          9%     15%      14%     15%      15%     15%
overall surplus/deficit/net revenues         -9%      3%       2%      30%      3%      3%
debt revenue ratio                            2.0     l s      1.4     1.4      1.3     1.3
debt service/RLR                             20%     13%      15%     15%      14%     14%
Project impact
counterpart funding as % capital works        0%      0%       4%      7%      13%      9%
debt service on new loans as % net revenues*                  0.1%    0.3%     0.7%    0.9%
* including amortization during grace period
3. Technical
The Government of Bahia's education reform strategy is supported by the World Bank through the
FUNDESCOLA program, the proposed Bahia Education Program and by the IDB through the Escola
Jovem Project. This reform is aligned with those that have proven most successful internationally,
that is, supporting school autonomy, encouraging local participation, and providing educational
inputs to enhance quality.
The decision to use a combined top down (centralized definition of guidelines and provision of
materials, pedagogical tools) with a bottom-up approach (school development plans and grants) to
improving school quality is discussed at greater length in section D.1 (Project Rationale). The choice
of the School Development Plan (PDE) as the primary means for improving school quality and
management is based on positive experiences in other countries, pilot projects in several Northeast
states, and preliminary experience with FUJNDESCOLA 1.
Curriculum parameters for both secondary and primary education were recently revised and
thoroughly updated by the federal Ministry of Education (MEC) for use by all schools in the country.
Teacher and staff development programs and education materials will be evaluated during project
preparation and implementation to ensure that they are consistent with these curricular parameters.



Bahia Education Program                                                          Page 23
Much of this evaluation will be done during the course of working with schools on their PDE
process.
Inclusion of the "Accelerated Classes" program is supported by the positive experience of similar
approaches in the State of Sao Paulo and in pilot programs nationwide. Evaluations have established
that children with a history of repetition can succeed at school and even catch up to their peers when
provided with experienced and specially trained teachers, age-appropriate materials, and extra
support and attention. Because most of these programs are recent, questions still remain regarding
these children's success once they are "mainstreamed" back into regular classes; this issue will be
given particular attention in project evaluation.
Finally, the Secondary Education Study: Time to Move Forward (1999) has provided key
information to guide project preparation and will be an important input for project implementation.
This study contains technical summaries of efficient school investments; qualification and
quantification of the demand for education and successful school practices in Brazil and specifically,
in Bahia.
4. Institutional
Current institutional arrangements in Bahia's public education system impede the government's
ability to improve quality and manage resources effectively. Of primary concern are the following
issues:
*  Highly centralized decision-making and supply driven service delivery within the state education
system.
*  Low organizational capacity and weak political commitment to education among municipal
education systems.
*  Poor dialogue and program alignment between state and municipal education systems.
*  Pervasive politics in personnel decisions - especially at the school and local levels.
*  Underdeveloped quality assurance mechanisms, resulting in wide-spread disparity of leaming
outcomes.
*  Limited accountability for results as a consequence of low community engagement in school life,
inadequate information on school performance, and weak incentives for improvement.
With the support of the Bahia Education Project, the State of Bahia is currently addressing these
institutional concerns with the following actions:
*  Reorienting the mission of SEC from that of administrator of its own education system, to a
focus on quality assurance and improved coordination across the entire public education system -
municipal and state.
*  Formalizing a shared commitment to education improvement through state-municipal joint
agreements (convenios) on cooperation and investment, beginning with the 100 poorest
municipalities.
*  Promoting greater school and district autonomy through the introduction of local improvement
plans, supported with centrally provided training and block grant funds, and governed by greater
accountability for results.
*  Improving the qualifications of school management teams (principals, vice-principals and
secretaries) through the development of training and mandatory certification.
*  Enhanced quality assurance and resource targeting through the implementation of school-level
standardized assessment of student achievement at three key stages.



Bahia Education Program                                                               Page 24
* Special targeting of resources and support to those schools located in the poorest 100
municipalities in the state - a subset with the weakest education institutions and historically
isolated from past education initiatives.
* Increasing accountability for results through the establishment of performance or outcomes
contracts for regional DIREC managers. At the school level, a second round of PME funds will
be tied to effective use of those disbursed in the first round.
5. Social
The Bahia Education Program's ability to achieve its educational goals as an equity oriented project
may be affected, both positively and negatively, by various social factors. Three of the most positive
factors are the solid and increasing political support provided by the government to education, the
social consensus for and commitment to education, and parents' continuing demand for educational
services for their children in spite of serious economic constraints.
Studies exploring stakeholder perspectives reveal that there is a widespread belief in the value of
education, and a general belief among most stakeholders that the quality of primary education needs
to be, and can be, improved. Available evidence also suggests that although economic pressures on
poor families and limited access to higher levels of primary education continue to be problems, poor
quality and lack of relevance is the primary reason behind school failure and dropout.
There is also a fair degree of overlap in opinions regarding what needs to be changed. Better physical
conditions for schools, more and better material and equipment, and a more relevant curriculum are
mentioned again and again in interviews across a range of stakeholders. The design of the program
takes these perspectives into account, while also attempting to address some of the root causes of the
problems identified. Thus, for example, repair of school buildings and equipping of classrooms are
included in the project, within a larger framework of promoting the use of minimum operating
standards and state and municipal cooperation.
Attitudes and perspectives that present a challenge for the project include: (1) a sense of
disconnection and lack of shared perspectives between schools and their communities; (2) the lack of
a common view among teachers and principals that student learning is their main priority; (3) teacher
misperceptions about repetition and literacy teaching; (4) lack of clarity about the role of the school;
(5) the personalization of school failure; and (6) a fairly widespread "disempowerment syndrome"
whereby everyone complains about the system, but few (be they parents or municipal secretaries of
education) assume the responsibility for change. The Bahia Education Program's main mechanism
for working at the level of the school and community (where many of these attitudes prevail) is the
school development plan. Conceived as a joint school-community exercise, the school development
plan is also the most likely entry point to begin to address many of the issues outlined above.
6. Environmental assessment        Environment Category A[ ] B[ ] C[X] Fl [ 
Justification/Rationale for category rating
Apart from expansion and rehabilitation of secondary and fundamental schools, if necessary, the
project does not present any environmental risks. School construction and rehabilitation will follow
Bank-approved manuals developed as part of the Project Implementation Plan. Construction will take
place only on pre-approved sites following microplanning. It is expected that the project, by
emphasizing environmental education in accordance with the National Curricular Parameters, will
have a positive impact on the relationship between the beneficiaries and the environment.



Bahia Education Program                                                                Page 25
7. Participatory Approach
It is expected that groups traditionally "outside" of the public education system in Bahia will become
essential participants in program activities. This change has come about as a result of SEC's
recognition that it must draw upon the commitment and skills of multiple stakeholders if major
implementation challenges are to be surmounted.
Of primary importance will be the involvement of parents in a schools development activities.
Through the PDE process, parents will be directly involved in school management decisions
affecting their children. As co-authors of their schools improvement plan, parents will also be
responsible for overseeing effective implementation and appropriate use of PME resources.
The project also intends to involve the wider community (e.g. civic leaders, businesspeople) in
school improvement efforts. Civic leaders will be invited to participate in the PDE process.
Mobilization campaigns will alert communities about state-municipal investments in minimum
operational standards. Communities will be urged to hold their local political leadership -and
themselves - accountable for sustaining school conditions and improvement efforts.
The program will also draw in state universities and NGOs into the school improvement process.
Both universities and NGOs are seen as major source of innovation in providing professiona!
development opportunities for teachers via PME funds. They are also expected to play a role in
delivering training for "accelerated class" activities, developing the teacher certification program, as
well as designing the state assessment system.  Overall, this invitation to non-SEC partners
represents an early, but important broadening of the education services market in Bahia- one which
has traditionally been single source (i.e. the State Teacher Training Institute- IAT) and supply driven.
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
School Children Ages 7-19                         Information Sharing
Fundamental Cycle and Secondary School Teachers   Information Sharing
Parents and School Community                      Consultation
School Principals                                 Consultation
Municipalities and municipal education secretariats  Consultation, Collaboration
State Education Managerial Staff                  Consultation, Collaboration
b. Other key stakeholders
UNDIME                                            Consultation, Collaboration
Teachers Unions                                   Consultation
State and Federal Universities                    Consultation, Collaboration
Local, National, and International NGOs           Consultation, Collaboration



Bahia Education Program                                                             Page 26
State Government Officials and Technical Staff  Consultation, Collaboration
Federal Government Officials and Technical Staff  Consultation, Collaboration
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
The Bahia Education Program is an integral part of a larger education investment plan designed by
the newly re-elected state government. Program objectives support government policies and are the
product of the consultation process. Political commitment to the Program at the state level, therefore,
is high.
With regard to the sustainability of the Program beyond the tenure of the current administration,
investments, policies, and activities can be categorized in three ways: (a) those which are not meant
to continue beyond the life of the Program; (b) those which are likely to continue because of existing
mandates or pressures; and (c) those for which sustainability will very much depend on the success
of Program implementation.
A good example of an activity with a "planned obsolescence" are the Accelerated Classes. These
classes are meant to be a short-term solution to the large age-grade distortions in grades 5-8 in Bahia.
Once the bulk of over-age children have managed to catch up with their peers, the need for the
Accelerated Classes should disappear, although other, ongoing techniques for giving slower learners
extra help before they repeat a grade (through special tutoring, summer school, etc.) need to be
continued and expanded.
With regard to the Program's support for increased school autonomy, certification of school
principals, and increased investment at the secondary level, in all cases external trends and pressures
should help ensure sustainability. Increased school autonomy and more objective qualifications for
principals are areas being emphasized by the federal government, and are in line with the 1996
Education Law (LDB). The state's primary responsibility for the provision of secondary education is
also clarified in the LDB, and growing demand for secondary education will clearly continue to drive
investment.
The sustainability of Program activities such as assessment, reorientation and transfer of resources to
DIRECs, the PDE process, and even physical investments, will depend in large measure on how
successfully they are implemented, and whether it is possible to build a constituency for them. For
example, if parents and teachers are part of the process of building an assessment system and are
taught to use the results, they are more liable to request such information on an ongoing basis. To
cite another example, microplanning should ensure more efficient use of space within the school
system, freeing up resources that could be used for building maintenance or replacement of school
materials.  Whether resources are in fact used to this end, however, will depend in part on
communities, parents, teachers and principals who: (a) know what a school should have (according
to the state's own declared minimum standards); and (b) are empowered enough to demand it from
their political representatives.



Bahia Education Program                                                                              Page 27
2. Critical risks freflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1)
Teachers use inputs effectively and students      S           Teachers trained through PDf  and Accelerated
have access to newly acquired materials.                      Classes; Social mobilization campaigns assure
that parents know of and pressure for minimum
standards.
School Principals effectively assume their        M           Certification and training for principals, as well
role as instructional leaders and managers of                 as PDE process.
schools.
Parents are committed to send their children      M           Social mobilization campaigns.
to school and foster their engagement.
Transport system in place to assure school        S           Ensure microplanning for new school places.
access.
Strengthened social policies that help to         M           Commitment on the part of federal and state
assure that children stay in school.                          government for further investment in social
policy.
SEC, DIRECs, Municipal Secretariats and           M           Outcomes contracts, PDD menus, subsidiary
School Principals utilize their information                   agreements, training and certification for
and influence to affect change in teaching                    education management and leaders create a sense
and learning in schools.                                      of responsibility and accountability to schools.
Continuity of state prioritization of             M           Use of the APL model.
education.
Interest and participation of the School                      PDE requires existence of UE, the school
Community.                                                    council, for project approval. Social
Mobilization campaigns conducted as part of
PDE process.
Interest and participation of Universities and    M           Possibility for sub-contracts through the PDE
other institutions (NGOs).                                    process; encourage Universities, NGOs to act as
service providers.
Availability of competent contractors for         S           Formalized bidding process for input packages,
supply of packaged minimum standard                           school grants for rehabilitation to ensure local
inputs and rehabilitation of schools.                         transparency and quality.
Adequate availability of construction             S           Formalized bidding process in accordance with
suppliers (contractors).                                      Bank procedures
Commitment and participation of municipal         S           Development of subsidiary agreement for
secretariats in the Assessment System.                        participating municipalities.
Technical support and availability of the         M           INEP technical assistance financed through
bank of items by MEC/INEP.                                    FUNDESCOLA.
DIREC personnel committed to change               S           Outcomes contract for operational budget signed
with each DIREC.
Project management and monitoring                 M           Qualifications of personnel reviewed and
personnel effectively performing their duties.                approved by Bank.
Overall Risk Rating                               S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)



Bahia Education Program                                                             Page 28
3. Possible controversial aspects
There are a few potentially controversial aspects in this program. Of some concern is the reaction
that some government offices (or officials) may have towards strengthened autonomy for schools.
Direct budget transfers to schools frequently diminish central decision-making power and related
entrenched interests. As such, concerns may be raised regarding accountability and institutional
capacity at the school level vis a vis the handling of significant resources. This possible controversial
aspect can be addressed by: (a) the strong political support to school autonomy in Brazil as a whole
and, in particular, in Bahia, and (b) a well-developed accountability system based on: (i) results
(evaluated through student achievement), (ii) continuous opportunities of monitoring and influencing
school usage of resources (through the PDE and PME mechanisms), and (iii) fiscal accountability
(through random auditing of school expenses).
A second potential area of controversy will be the establishment of the principal certification system.
At present, many principals in Bahia have low qualifications but benefit from political connections.
The certification system may disqualify a number of current principals and constrain future,
politically motivated appointments, a move which may upset local patronage networks. Nonetheless,
political commitment, both within SEC and at the Governor level, to fundamentally redress poor
school management is significant. Controversy will also be diminished given the transparent nature
of the assessment process as well as the opportunities for minimally qualified candidates to seek
additional training in order to attain certification.
G. Main Loan Conditions
Effectiveness conditions
e  Presentation of operational guidelines for PDE, PME, Padrdes Minimos, and PDD.
*  Bidding documents for Minimum Standards (ICB) for school equipment and school furniture
approved by the Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
*  Project Implementation Plan draft has been completed.
*  Monitoring and evaluation procedures for each component have been included in the PIP.
*  The procurement plan for the first year of Project implementation has been submitted to the
Bank.



Bahia Education Program                                                              Page 29
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
I. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader: Alberto RodreW 
Team  Leader: AlbertoRodrigueznd     k
Sector Maq4er/Directorr fmil Salmi
Country Nacn"ag   irector: Gobind Nankani



Annex 1
BRAZIL: BAHIA EDUCATION PROGRAM
Project Design Summary
Achieve universal primary   d00% of the 7-14 population    Evaluative studies        Sufficient economic, social
education by 2007 and      attending school.           || and political conditions to|
improve educational                                    || assure continued                              
performance in basic subjects,                         || commitment to expansion|
particularly Portuguese and                            || and improvement of
Math.                                                                                Education.
Increase education attainment  Increase in student     Evaluative studies and
and raise student learning,  performance on SAEB results. School Census
especially for the poor.
Increased participation of the
lowest income quintile in
education.
To assist the Government of   Overall Program indicators- to School Census, Household  *   Satisfactory performance of
Bahia in its effort to improve   be achieved by 2004    Survey Data, SAEB results    other states in meeting the
the educational system and                                                           CAS goal.
respond to the demands and    *   Increase net secondary
needs of the Bahian            enrollment rates by 14
population                     percentage points.
*  Reduce secondary and
fundamental cycle drop-ou
rates by 6 and 3
percentage points,
respectively.
*   Increase promotion rates ol
fundamental cycle students
by 15 percentage points.
*   Increase promotion rates ol
secondary students by 11
percentage points.
*   Increase average
performance of secondary
and fundamental cycle
students, in Portuguese anc|
Math by 5 percent.
*   Increase promotion rates o
fundarnental cycle students
residing in the 100 poorest
municipalities by 10
percentage points.
30



Improve fundamnental and    Indicators for Project I- to be                             Brazilian Federal
secondary school outcomes, as achieved by the year 2002.                                authorities and State
measured by improvements in                                                             authorities support Project
dropout and promotion rates                                                             II as a worthwhile
and student performance on                                                              investment, based on
standardized tests; and to                                                              success of Project 1.
increase access to secondary
school, as measured by an
increase in secondary
enrollments.
Implementation indicators for
component 1:
*   Minimum standards
attained in 70% of schools
that expected to benefit
during Project I (estimate:
1,750 public schools)
*   Resources for PME have
been transferred to 70% of
schools that expect to
benefit during Project I
(estimate: 530 secondary
schools, and 110 primary
schools)
*   At least 70% of the
expected accelerated
classes functioning
(estimate: 7,700 turmas).
Implementation indicators for
component 2
* At least 70% of expected
new school places created.
(estimate: 98,000 school
places)
Implementation indicators for
component 3
*   Implementation of first
assessment round through
a SAEB-type exam in all
state and targeted
municipal schools.
*   PDD developed and
financed in at least 15
DIRECs
*   At least 70% of expected
education management
leaders trained (estimate:
1,750 leaders)
31



1. School quality improvement 1.1 Minimum operation       School Census, Project     a       Teachers use inputs
both in fundamental cycle and  standards met in at least 2,500  Progress Reports         effectively and students
secondary education          public schools located in the                               have access to newly
100 poorest municipalities.                                 acquired materials.
1.2 . PDE developed in at least                         *   School Principals
700 secondary schools and in                                effectively assume their
at least 150 fundamental cycle                              role as instructional leaders
schools (those with more than                               and managers of schools.
200 students)                                           *   Parents are committed to
1.3 First transfer for PME                                  foster their children's
completed to at least 2/3 of the                            engagement in school.
PDE schools (estimate: 466
secondary schools and 100
fundamental cycle schools).
1.4 Accelerated classes
implemented in at least 60
municipalities (estimated
number of classes: I 1,000)
2. Expanded access to        2.1 Number of Secondary      Project Progress Reports
secondary education          school places expanded by at                            *   Transport system in place
least 140,000.                                              to assure school access.
*   Strengthened social
policies that help to assure
that children stay in school.
*   Parents are committed to
send their children to
school
3. Educational management    3.1 Assessment system tested,  Project Progress Reports    *   SEC, DIRECs, Municipal
strengthened.                attending to at least the                                    Secretariats, and school
following schools:                                          principals utilize their
*   100% of state schools in                                information and influence
Educarpara Vencer                                       to affect change in teaching
municipalities                                          and learning in schools.
3.2 Regional management
improved by means of:
*   PDD developed in 33
DIRECs
*   Outcomes contracts
signed with 33 DIRECs
* First transfer for PME
completed to at least 22
DIRECs.
* At least 2,500 education
management leaders
certified and trained.
3.3 Project management
operating successfully
3.4 Project monitoring and
evaluation in place.
32



l. Improving School Quality  US$ 58.1 Million                                       Continuity of state
1. I Assuring minimum                                                               prioritization of education.
operational standards for                                                        *Interest and participation of
schools                                                                             the School Community
1.2 Supporting the                                                              a  Interest and participation of
implementation of School                                                             Universities and other
Development Plans (PDE);                                                            institutions (NGOs).
1.3 Financing School                                                            a  Availability of competent
Improvement Project (PME).                                                          contractors for supply of
1.4 Implementing Accelerated                                                        packaged minimum
Classes                                                                              standard inputs and
rehabilitation of schools.
2. Expanding Access        US$ 24.5 Million
2.1 Planning and providing                                                       *  Adequate availability of
additional secondary school                                                          construction suppliers
places                                                                               (contractors).
3. Strengthening           US$24.0 Million
Educational Management                                                           *  Commitment and
3.1 Strengthening Educational                                                        participation of municipal
Assessment                                                                           secretariats in the
3.2 Institutional Strengthening                                                      Assessment system.
of Educational Management                                                        *  Technical support and
3.3 Financing Project                                                                availability of the bank of
Management                                                                           items by MEC/INEP.
3.4 Project Monitoring and                                                       *  DIREC personnel
Impact Evaluation                                                                    committed to change.
*   Project management and
monitoring personnel
effectively perfoming their
duties.
33



Annex 2
BRAZIL: BAHIA EDUCATION PROGRAM
Detailed Program Description
The Bahia Education Program is designed to assist the Government of Bahia is its effort to improve
the educational system and respond to the demands and needs of the Bahian population in the wake
of the new millennium. The program focuses on improving fundamental and secondary school
quality, increasing access to secondary schools and improving system management. The medium-
term program is divided in two projects: Project I (US$116 million) will span 2.5 years, while
Project II (US$100 million) will be completed in 2 years. Project triggers (described in Annex 1) will
indicate the government's readiness to begin the second project.
Bahia Education Strategy
Given the complexity of education needs and challenges in Bahia, a well-defined and comprehensive
strategy is needed. The Bahia Education Program's strategic vision can be summarized as follows:
Autonomy of schools as the avenuefor quality
This approach addresses the repeated lack of relevance of centrally-designed investments while
making schools more purposeful institutions. For both fundamental cycle and secondary education, a
well-planned intervention to prepare schools to develop strategic plans and their accompanying
investment needs is an avenue to increasing quality. Schools are best able to determine their
immediate needs, be they teacher training, educational materials, computers, library equipment, or
others. School autonomy does not imply a school's isolation. Rather, strategy preparation is
envisioned to involve a mobilized school community -i.e. parents, civic leaders - and be supported
by trained facilitators who bring resources, experience and guidance to the process.
Meeting the demand of secondary education
As discussed above, Brazil recently implemented the FUNDEF which guarantees a minimum
investment per fundamental cycle student. One substantial outcome of this policy is the shift of
significant resources from the state to the municipal level. Though this change will strengthen
chronically under-funded municipal fundamental cycle schools, there is widespread concern about
funding secondary education. This project attempts to respond to this challenge in Bahia by
increasing the supply of secondary education, especially in those municipalities where the absence of
secondary education promotes desertion or migration. Three strategies will be used: (a)
reorganization of the existing spaces (accounting for 34 percent of new students); (b) expansion of
existing schools and classrooms (61 percent of new students); and (c) new school construction (5
percent of new students).
Coordinating educational management
The most recent school effectiveness research suggests that educational environment has a significant
impact on student achievement. An effective educational management system provides: (a) clear
standards for school achievement, management and qualification of personnel (b) strong support
systems that assist schools in achieving these standards; (c) consistent and objective assessment of
schools; and (d) strong accountability from communities and incentives from managers for schools
and administrators to improve student outcomes. The Bahia Education Program intends to focus
efforts on improving system management of all state schools, municipal schools in the 100 poorest
34



municipalities, and other municipal systems on a volunteer basis, and to evaluate the impact of
management reforms on student outcomes.
Targeting the poor
The project design embraces the notion that in an environment with so many critical needs,
investments must first and foremost target the poor. In Bahia, poor students are left out of
fundamental cycle, but those who complete this cycle often find that they have no access to
secondary schooling. As such, the fundamental vs. secondary dilemma is not necessarily the most
appropriate poverty targeting criteria. Targeting fundamental cycle investments in the 100 poorest
municipalities, while increasing access to upper secondary education throughout the state will assure
that growing numbers of poor are guaranteed access to a quality primary education and increasingly
gain entrance to upper secondary.
By Component
Component 1
Improving School Quality
This component will seek to improve school quality by providing inputs to bring state and
municipal primary schools closer to meeting minimum operational standards, and increase
school autonomy for state and municipal primary and secondary schools by means of the
school development process.
1.1 Assuring minimum operational standards for schools:
The minimum operational standards model is designed to operationalize the concept of a
functioning school. It consists of an agreed-upon, pre-determined set of essential inputs and
conditions needed for a school to be considered "operational." The checklist is the basis for
the school facilities survey, which determines if the school meets or falls short of the
minimum operational standard.
A school operating at the minimum operational standards is one that is considered minimally
capable of proving satisfactory conditions for student learning. The model assumes that a
school must have all of the minimum inputs and services in order to meet the standard. A
school unable to offer these essential factors simply cannot provide an adequate opportunity
for children to learn. In determining the minimum standard level, the state is adapting the
FUJNDESCOLA concept with special attention to the following criteria:
*  The school staff and community are familiar with the minimum operational standards
model and checklist, and understand the equity considerations associated with this model;
*  All students have access to basic textbooks and reading books, and all teachers have
access to teaching guides;
* All classrooms have a minimum set of furniture and equipment;
* All classrooms have access to basic teaching materials;
* The school offers the minimum physical conditions to permit it to receive or maintain
inputs and services indicated above.
The state will ensure minimum operational standards for the 194 state and one half of the
municipal fundamental cycle schools located in the 100 poorest municipalities. This will be
assured by means of: (i) evaluation of all fundamental cycle schools (more than 5,000) in
35



these 100 municipalities in order to determine which schools are under the minimum
standards; (ii) provision of the required materials and equipment, and where necessary,
rehabilitation through school grants', in order to bring all schools up to the standard. The
provision will be made based on an estimate allotment of R$2,500 per classroom and
R$3 1.50 per student. An estimated 210,000 students will benefit from this sub-component.
It is desirable that subsidiary agreements between the state and the municipalities are
established in an effort to ensure that all fundamental cycle schools attain the minimum
standards described above. In each municipality, the state will finance the necessary inputs
to and rehabilitation of all state and one-half of those municipal schools deemed substandard.
For their part, the municipal govemments should be encouraged to raise the remaining 50
percent of substandard municipal schools to the established acceptable level.  This
component will be implemented in its entirety during the Project I of the Bahia Education
Program.
1.2 Supporting the implementation of School Development Plans (PDE):
The objective of the school development plan process is to: (a) develop within schools a
process of educational planning and local empowerment to improve school quality and
efficiency; and (b) prepare both state and municipal education secretariats to guide, evaluate,
facilitate and supervise the design and implementation of the school development plans and
school improvement projects. The school development plan is a multi-year school-based
strategic plan aimed at improving student outcomes and school quality. Through the school
development plan, the school defines its own values, mission, goals, strategies, educational
targets and responsibilities, with the participation of the parent community. The PDE is the
culmination of one preliminary process --diagnosis and strategy formulation, and the guide
for a subsequent process--school improvement. Once agreed upon, the PDE serves as a guide
to the implementation of the school improvement projects (PME) (see below). Active
community participation in PDE development establishes a stronger sense of local
accountability for school performance, an essential driver of change and local political
commitment to education over the long term.
A team composed of existing SEC personnel and outside consultants, if necessary, will be
trained for implementation of the PDE in fundamental and secondary schools in Bahia. These
technical assistants will work with the school principals and state secretariat staff throughout
the PDE process and will be responsible for: a) training of selected school staff in the
elaboration of the PDE; b) mobilization of school personnel and the broader school
community; and c) evaluation and monitoring of the implementation of the PDE.
Public fundamental cycle schools that are (a) located in the 100 poorest municipalities and
(b) enroll over 200 students will benefit from this action. It is estimated that 167 fundamental
cycle schools are included in the group of beneficiaries. Public secondary schools in Bahia
will benefit from this action as well. It is estimated that 458 state-managed and 285
municipally-managed secondary schools are included in the group of beneficiaries.
Before a school is eligible to receive a rehabilitation grant, it must demonstrate financial autonomy through the
establishment of a caixa escolar.
36



For the first phase of the APL (Project I), one half of the targeted group of fundamental cycle
schools and all secondary schools will receive training in the PDE. Project II will train the
remaining fundamental cycle schools in the PDE process.
1.3 Financing School Improvement Projects (PME):
The school improvement project (PME) is a section of the school development plan that the
school can use to apply for financing from the Bahia Education Program in order to
implement selected actions. The school uses the PME to indicate project inputs, services, or
training activities it needs to achieve the school development plan targets. While the
minimum operational standards model seeks to equalize the school environment, the school
improvement project aims to individualize the school by responding to school-specific
initiatives in order to improve school learning and quality.
The PMEs will be submitted to a forum of technical education authorities for evaluation, and
if approved, the school will receive a direct transfer of funds with which to develop its
project. The amount of the transfer depends on the PME activities with a ceiling determined
according to the number of students in the school, as indicated below. (Estimates for first
project phase).
Fundamental cycle schools:
*  Schools with 201-500 students .............. R$ 6,200
*  Schools with 501-1000 students ............ R$ 10,000
*  Schools with more than 1 O0 1 students ..R$ 12,000
Secondary schools:
*  Schools with less than 300 students ...... R$ 24,000
e Schools with 301-2000 students ............ R$  80.00 per student
- Schools with more than 2001 students..R$ 160,000
Those schools trained in the PDE under Project I and whose PME meets the technical
requirements described in the Program Implementation Manual will receive a first full
transfer under Project I, and a second transfer as part of Project II, after updating their PDE
and accounting for their first PME. The remaining schools will be trained and will receive a
full transfer during Project II. However, before a school is eligible to receive the PME
transfer, it must demonstrate financial autonomy through the establishment of a caixa
escolar.
1.4 Implementing Accelerated Classes:
A 1998 MEC report indicated that 68 percent of all fundamental cycle students in Bahia are
older than they should be for their corresponding grade. Many of these students eventually
drop-out, as older students increasingly compare the benefits of employment to participation
in a poor quality system with little relevance to their needs. Given the high financial and
social costs of repetition, and the failure of the traditional grade system to resolve the
growing problem, the LDB of 1996 allowed for more flexible mechanisms for incorporating
older students back into the system and accelerating their grade attainment process.
The Accelerated Classes Program is Bahia's response to these high levels of repetition and
age-grade distortion. The program groups over-age fundamental cycle students (grades 5-8)
37



in modules within which students progress and are evaluated at their own pace, eventually
being "tracked back" into the main system at higher (and more age-appropriate) grade levels.
The particular characteristics of these older fundamental cycle students require a new
approach to the traditional teaching practices and curriculum design. The result is an
integrated teacher training and curriculum design program that uses age-appropriate materials
and reinforces the autonomy and self-esteem of teachers and students. Year-end student
evaluations are substituted for continuous assessment, monitoring student progress
throughout the learning process and guiding teachers in their practice.
While further evaluation of such programs is needed, initial evidence has shown that students
that have been rejected by the traditional system can succeed in one that is more flexible and
responsive to their particular needs. In Bahia, the program would finance the implementation
of the program statewide. The estimated number of beneficiaries would be equally divided
between the two projects, encompassing some 22,000 classes, or 660,000 students.
Component 2
Expanding Access
The objective of this component is to assist Bahia in meeting the growing demand for
secondary education. As overall demand for enrollments within Bahia begins to shift from
primary to secondary, an ever increasing number of poor students will gain access to
secondary education. As the wealthy in Brazil have always had access to secondary
education, the increase in enrollment rates and improvement in completion rates is increasing
equity of opportunity.
This component will complement the IDB Escola Jovem project, a federal loan that will
finance the expansion and enhancement of secondary education in several Brazilian states.
Bahia has agreed to coordinate both projects by targeting them for distinct geographical
areas. That is, some regions within Bahia will expand and enhance their secondary education
through Escola Jovem while the Bahia Education Program will cover the remainder.
2.1 Planning and providing additional school places:
Microplanning and structural reorganization of the secondary school system will be
conducted to guarantee the provision of additional school places through the optimal
utilization of school facilities, that is, through the articulation and rationalization of state,
municipal and private school resources. Microplanning is a combination of School Mapping
and the Geographic Information Systems that support decision-makers in the planning and
provision of additional school places.  This important technical instrument promotes
cooperation between states and municipal governments on the issues of school location and
size. New classroom and school construction will be undertaken only when revealed as
absolutely necessary by the microplanning process. Initial microplanning has estimated that
structural reorganization of the system could provide 50,000 new places.
As a result of the initial microplanning process, it has been estimated that Project I would
finance 750 new classrooms, 10 new schools, and 4 new "model" schools, providing over
90,000 new places. Project II would continue this process, financing an additional 750 new
classrooms, 10 new schools, and 4 more "model" schools. Management of the school
construction process, with technical specification and architectural plans approved by the
Bank, will be conducted by SUCAB, the Bahian Department of Civil Works.
38



Component 3
Strengthening Educational Management
The objective of this component is to provide increasingly autonomous schools with the
institutional environment they need to make timely, relevant and informed decisions to
improve student outcomes. This framework will include a more transparent qualification
system for school managers, a strengthening of regionally-based school support services, and
centrally administered evaluation system which will inform political leaders, managers,
teachers and parents throughout the public system whether academic standards are being
achieved. Institutional strengthening for project coordination and implementation are also
included.
3.1 Strengthening Educational Assessment:
Responsibility for the development, irnplementation, analysis, and dissemination of a state-
wide, school level assessment system, based on and complementary to SAEB, will rest
primarily with SEC. Technical support and training will be provided primarily by the federal
education research institute (INEP), supplemented by international expertise. The assessment
will eventually cover the entire state educational system. Plans for a frequent application
strategy (bi-monthly) are underway in order to develop a "continuous assessment system";
however, this is a long-term goal. This project will lay the foundations for this "continuous
assessment system" by supporting a step by step implementation strategy, beginning with a
yearly application of the assessment in a targeted area. Project I will finance the development
of the assessment and the initial applications of the exam in the targeted area. In conjunction
with universities and NGOs, SEC will support the creation of a critical mass of professionals
who will contribute to the further development of educational evaluation in the state of
Bahia.
3.2 Institutional strengthening of Educational Management:
An important program intervention will be the establishment of a certification system for
school principals and top school administrators. At present, no transparent, standardized
approach to selecting qualified school leaders exists in Bahia. Under the project, minimum
academic qualification standards will be defined in accordance with goals set forth in the
LDB. In addition, all current and prospective school principals must demonstrate a broader
set of school leadership skills.  These skills will be evaluated through a preliminary
standardized test. Those candidates that pass the exam will be offered leadership training
opportunities, which will lead to certification upon completion. Over the long term, school
principals will be required to periodically pass additional certification exams in order to
maintain their qualification.
Recognizing its role as a source of technical assistance to the entire education system both
municipal and state - SEC and its regional offices (DIRECs) will reorient their mission away
from administrative supervision and toward front-line technical support to state schools and
municipal secretariats serving under-performing schools. For this purpose, all 33 DIRECs
will prepare Regional Education Development Plans (PDD) and will identify activities to be
implemented to meet the goals of such plans. Similar to the school-level PDE process, the
development and prioritization of PDDs will rely heavily upon collaboration with the broader
community such as civic leaders and regional academics. Some of these activities will be
funded through a direct transfer of funds to the DIRECs. As a result, the DIREC will sign an
"Outcomes Contract" with the SEC, which will hold the DIREC accountable for results. It is
expected that additional technical expertise will be provided to DIRECs by universities and
39



NGOs with demonstrated experience in education management and instructional
improvement. Project I will finance the preparation of the PDD and a first transfer of funds
to DIRECs for the implementation of the activities described in their plan. Project II will
finance a seconds transfer once PDDs have been updated accordingly.
Funding transfers for PDDs will be allocated as follows (for the first project phase):
*  DIRECs with less than 90 state schools (25)       R$125,000
*  DIRECs with 91-120 state schools (4)              R$175,000
*  DIRECs with more than 120 state schools (4)       R$250,000
Also under this sub-component the project will finance the final steps of the full
implementation of the SIIG in Bahia, a process that began with Projeto Nordeste and has had
continued support from Fundescola.
3.3 Financing project management:
SEC will be responsible for the administration of the project. SEC's primary responsibilities
include administration of financial resources of the program, and operating as the World
Bank counterpart in the preparation, discussion, and negotiation process.
In planning for project management, SEC has deliberately sought to integrate and coordinate
project interventions within the broader scope of SEC activities. As outlined in the diagram
below, overall responsibility for the project falls under the authority of COPE. This unit is
positioned to oversee the overall quality of the Bahia Education Project, as well as assure
complimentarily and coordination with other education projects (e.g. Escola Jovem,
FUNDESCOLA) under its purview.   COPE  will also  provide  direct oversight of
procurement and financial management activities for the project.
With regard to specific project activities, each activity area will fall under the responsibility
of technical coordinators (articuladores), who will be accountable to the Director of
Education Projects for the quality of activity implementation. These technical coordinators
will in turn work on a day to day basis with the appropriate SEC units (and in some cases
govemment agencies or NGOs beyond SEC) who will be responsible for actually
implementing project activities.
Project Management Arrangements
<           ~~~COPE   
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Financial        Procurement  l    Project Coordination    PrOMEDE   l          S    lA
I Coordinati on      l Cndinatin      (BahiaE[d. P0IC) I POEE IIFNECL 
|  onitorit3    | Technical Coordinanrr  ITechnical Coordinatcr    |Technical Coordinato|   |echnical Coordinatc
|(All acovtie) |M|     nform |n| Operational Sta.dar Is | Policy and Assessmer|       Facilities l
A    .   =<  . . . C c S h                    o_l   n 
Secondary~~~~~ Sctu                          -ntaita Stnad|ShmlDrco     ptio 



3.4 Project monitoring and impact evaluation:
SEC will be responsible for monitoring the project. For the impact evaluation SEC will
contract an outside agency that will design and implement (with SEC's collaboration) studies
that evaluate progress and final impact. These studies must consider Project I outputs (which
will be key elements as triggers to move into Project II of this APL), and the Program's
impact. Among other impact studies that should be considered are the following:
1. Achievement trends based on the results of the national SAEB sample, and application of a
SAEB-type exam.
2. Enrollment, efficiency, and achievement trends in the 100 poorer municipalities, compared
to all other municipalities.
3. Analytical study of PDE/PME choices at the school level and at the DIREC level.
4. Monitoring of the compliance with the project's key performance indicators
41



Annex 3
BRAZIL: BAHIA EDUCATION PROGRAM
Estimated Project I Costs
1) Improving School Quality                                      37.4         20.7                     58.1
I . I ) Assuring minimum operational standards for schools
1.2) Supporting the implementation of School Development
Plans (PDE)
1.3) Financing School Improvement Projects (PME)
1.4) Implementing Accelerated Classes
2) Expanding Access to Secondary Schools                         22.6           1.9                    24.5
2.1) Planning and providing additional secondary school
places
3) Strengthening Educational Management                          20.3          3.7                     24.0
3. 1) Strengthening Educational Assessment
3.2) Institutional Strengthening of Educational Management
3.3) Financing project management
3.4) Project monitoring and impact evaluation.
Total Baseline Cost                                              80.3         26.3                     106.6
Physical Contingencies                X___X _=__                                                      9.4
Price Contingencies                                  _
Total Project Costs                                                                                    116.0
Interest during construction
Front-end fee
Total Financing Required
Goods                                                                 1.2             26.3             27.5
Workcs                                                              22.1                               22.1
Services                                                            15.2               6.8             22.0
Subprojects                                                         28.5                               28 .5
Operational Costs                                                    6.5                                6.5
(,unallocated)
Project Costs                                                       73.5              33.1            106.6
Contingencies                                                                                           9.4
Total Project Cost                                                                                    116.0
Front-end fee
Total Financing Required
42



Annex 4
BRAZIL: BAHIA EDUCATION PROGRAM
Economic Analysis
Program Context
The state of Bahia has experienced substantial growth relative to the national average, and it is
currently the sixth largest state economy in Brazil. However, the educational and social climate of
Bahia is still precarious. Repetition and drop-out rates, as well as the number of years of schooling
necessary to produce a graduate in both fundamental and secondary cycles, are some of the highest in
the country.
The management of educational supply in Bahia is characterized by low technical capacity, lack of
supervision, and the absence of long-term planning. Recent changes in the institutional framework
of the state include the implementation of the FUNDEF, which guarantees a minimum educational
expenditure of R$315.00 per public school student. Despite the acknowledged benefits of the
FUNDEF, there are a number of concerns associated with its implementation, including the capacity
of municipal governments to effectively manage budgets which have doubled or tripled from one
year to the next. Also at risk is the secondary level, which has not been guaranteed a similar source of
financing. In an effort to increase municipal participation in the fundamental cycle and liberate funds
for secondary education, the state of Bahia has begun the complex process of municipalizing its
public fundamental cycle schools through the Inter-Redes program.
Program Goals and Components
The program is projected to extend over a four and one half year period, beginning in July of the
year 2000 and ending in December of the year 2004. The analysis presented in this document
focuses on the program as a whole, even though, in fact, it will follow an APL (Adaptable Program
Loan) format, divided into two separate projects running for two and one half years and two years,
respectively.
The main goals to be achieved by the end of the year 2004 are the following:
*  Increase net secondary enrollment rates by 14 percentage points.
*  Reduce secondary and fundamental cycle drop-out rates by 9 and 4 percentage points,
respectively.
*  Increase secondary and fundamental cycle promotion rates by 11 and 18 percentage
points,
*  respectively.
*  Increase average test scores of secondary and fundamental cycle students in Portuguese
and Math by 5 percentage points.
The major objective of the Bahia Education Program is to expand the secondary cycle and improve
the quality of both secondary and fundamental schools, as well as to invest in school management at
all levels in order to prepare educational managers to meet the challenges created by the
municipalization of state schools.
43



The main components of the program are the following:
Component 1 Improvement of Secondary and Fundamental School Quality:
*Assuring minimum operational standards for schools
:Supporting the implementation of School Development Plans (PDE)
*Financing School Improvement Projects (PME)
*Implementing Accelerated Classes
Component 2 Expanding Access to Secondary Schools:
* Planning and providing additional secondary school places
Component 3 Strengthening Educational Management:
* Strengthening Educational Management
* Strengthening Educational Assessment
* Institutional Strengthening of Educational Management;
* Financing program management;
* Program monitoring and impact evaluation.
Methodologv
One might argue that the economic analysis requires a cost-effectiveness analysis of the program,
since some of the benefits of the program, such as test scores and the number of students enrolled,
are not measured in monetary units. Nevertheless, we assume that the cost-effectiveness approach
was already adopted in the preliminary stage of the program, when the implementation strategy was
selected based on a comparison of the cost-effectiveness ratios for all possible interventions. Thus,
this document focuses on the selected intervention strategy and does not present further cost-
effectiveness analyses for the program.
The economic analysis provides a cost-benefit analysis of the program and a corresponding
sensitivity analysis for alternative scenarios. Before estimating the Net Present Value (NPV) and the
Internal Rate of Return (IRR) for the program as a whole, each separable component is appraised
independently, in order to determine the marginal contribution of each to the overall program.
The Cost-Benefit analysis of the Bahia Education Program is undertaken in the following manner:
a)     The costs are estimated per project year.
b)     The secondary level flow model is estimated for the state system.
c)     A flow model for the fundamental level is estimated for both state and municipal
systems in the 100 poorest municipalities in Bahia.
d)     A historical trend is applied for both flow models, taking into account the method
introduced by Ruben Klein (1999), in order to determine how the flows of students
would look without the program.
e)     The impact of the program on the flows is estimated to the year 2007.
44



The number of students that conclude each grade is predicted and the difference
between the flows with the program and without the program are determined.
g)    Given these differences, the out-of-school benefits are calculated by using both the
private rate of return to each grade of education and the increment in productivity
related to improvement in Math and Portuguese test scores.
h)    In performing the sensitivity analysis, the NPV and the IRR are calculated and tested
for different scenarios. To simplify the IRR estimation, the costs associated with the
second half of the year 2000 are incorporated into the year 2001.
The main assumptions underlying the estimation and prediction of costs and benefits across time are
the following:
a)    The average exchange rate of R$/US$=l.90 is applied to all cash flows throughout
the period 2000-2007.
b)    The estimated marginal cost, unemployment rate, and the proportion of students that
study and work are constant over time.
c)    For each grade, there is a large number of children out of school that would likely
occupy the spot generated by the promotion of a student in the system. Therefore, a
reduction in the years of schooling due to greater promotion rates will not reduce the
overall number of students enrolled.
This assumption is based on the fact the net enrollment rates for fundamental and
secondary education in Bahia (91.9 percent and 12.3 percent, respectively) are
relatively low. In addition, there is a large contingent outside official age-grade limits
who is seeking to reenter school, as indicated by the huge discrepancies between the
state's net and gross enrollment rates (91.9 percent vs. 161.4 percent for the
fundamental level; 12.3 percent vs. 45.2 percent for the secondary level). These rates
indicate a significant excess in demand, clearly suggesting that, for the time frame
under analysis, there will always be someone wishing to enroll in the system.
d)    The increase in salary due to productivity gains is directly proportional to the
improvement in both Portuguese and Math scores.
e)    Expected earnings related to the education level can be determined by Mincerian rate
of return estimates.
Costs
Direct Costs of the Program
The projected cost and financing of the program were converted from US$ to R$. The average
exchange rate for the period 2000-2004 was assumed to be equivalent to the one observed in
September of 1999 (R$ 1.90 = US$ 1.00). Although not perfect, this is a reasonable estimate, given
Brazil's managed floating currency regime and the commitment of its policymakers to keep
inflationary pressures low and to minimize volatility in the currency market. Furthermore, if it is
45



assumed that the real exchange rate will be constant over time (PPP holds), it can be said that the
estimated direct costs are already discounted for possible inflationary movements.
Table 4.1 displays the projected direct costs of the Program for the years 2000-2004 in Brazilian
Reais.
Table 4.1 - Program Direct Costs (in R$)
DirtCo.t  M00168,400,000     95,000,000      57,000,000       95,000,000    95,000,000
The maintenance costs of the program associated with Component I were considered to be a segment
of the recurrent costs associated with the incorporation of new students. However, the maintenance
costs related to Components 2 and 3 of the program were disregarded, since there is no clear
commitment on the part of the state government of Bahia to maintain these investment measures
after 2004.
Costs Associated with Additional Students
Recurrent Costs
The expansion of the state's secondary school system is expected to generate the addition of 250,000
new students in the system by the end of 2004. This implies an increase in the total educational
expenditures of the state.
The increment of new students implies that in subsequent years there will be greater investments in
school facilities, an expansion of teacher hiring, and an increase in maintenance costs for buildings
and school equipment. The most appropriate way to calculate the cost impact of incorporating new
students into the system is by estimating the marginal cost and multiplying the result by the number
of additional students.
Unfortunately, there are few data available on student marginal cost. Basically, the only data
accessible pertain the number of students in the system and the total expenditures in education for the
period 1991-1998. Considering the nature of the data at hand, two procedures were considered
suitable for this analysis. The first one was to assume that FUNDEF's minimum fundamental cycle
commitment (R$315.00 per student/year) could be interpreted as marginal cost. The estimation for
the secondary level could be based on the assumption that its marginal cost represents 150 percent of
that for the fundamental level, which would provide an estimated figure of R$472.50 per
student/year. Although easy to calculate, the marginal cost, estimated in this manner, was
compromised by the potential inaccuracy of the assumptions, leading to extremely rough estimation
results.
The second option was to run a regression on secondary school expenditures as compared with
enrollment levels to estimate marginal expenditure and then equate this estimate to marginal cost.
This procedure was considered more appropriate because its assumptions are less strict and it leads to
a reasonable estimate of the marginal cost. Using this approach, the marginal cost for each additional
student in the secondary level was estimated to be R$5 19.69.
This procedure, however, raises a key concern: the reduction in repetition rates should result in
expenditure savings, which implies a lower marginal cost than the one presented above. Moreover,
the increase in school quality should lead to lower marginal costs in the future. As stated in
46



assumption "c", the improvement of school quality and the subsequent reduction in repetition rates
and increase in promotion rates will not have any impact on the overall number of enrollments. This
means that there will always be a potential student outside the system willing to take the place of a
peer. Hence, an increase in the number of students promoted from the I Ith grade, for instance, will
imply a proportional increase of new enrollments in the subsequent year. The number of enrollments
will still be the same; the difference is that the students will move more rapidly from one grade level
to the next.
Since it is impossible to accurately estimate the reduction in the marginal cost due to improved
student flows, the analysis assumed that the actual marginal cost would remain the same during the
succeeding years. The implication of this assumption for the Cost-Benefit Analysis is an
overestimation of the costs and a posterior underestimation of the Internal Rate of Return of the
program. Therefore, the economic evaluation of the program must take into consideration that the
estimated IRR is likely to be lower than the program's actual IRR.
Opportunity Costs
The addition of new students in the secondary cycle also indicates an increase in the opportunity cost
related to the foregone income of young workers while they go to school. For older children, time in
school represents a real cost because the family forgoes the services of the child in household
activities, in the family business, or on the farm. Where opportunities for wage employment exist, the
student and the family forgo income while the child is in school See "Handbook on Economic
Analysis of Investment Operations," 1997.
Opportunity cost was calculated in the analysis by considering the following: (1) the average salaries
associated with completion of the 8th, 9th, and 10th grades, respectively, (2) the unemployment rate
for the state of Bahia, and (3) the proportion of secondary students who work and study
simultaneously.
The opportunity cost of the additional students for each grade of the secondary level was estimated
for the period 2001-2007. The predicted values for the years subsequent to the implementation of the
program were assumed to be similar to the ones for the year 2004. Again, the three considerations
outlined in the paragraph above are assumed to be constant across the period analyzed.
There is another important issue that should be discussed: an increase in school quality will allow
the student of the secondary level to graduate sooner, thereby reducing the opportunity cost for that
individual. The benefit associated with the savings in time resulting from a decrease of the years of
schooling should be subtracted from the opportunity cost of the new students in the system.
However, this benefit does not seem to be quantitatively important in determining the final
economic rate-of-return values. (Check the Economic Analysis of the Project Appraisal Document on
a proposed credit to Bolivia, May 25, 1998).
Table 4.2 shows the distribution of the costs among the program participants and thereby points out
the contribution of each group to the program's implementation. The Present Value of the total costs
indicates the program's attractiveness to each group.
47



Table 4.2 - Estimating Costs per Group (Present Value in R$)
Program Cost The    331,914,076.90   199,148,446.14 i      12765,630.76
calculation of the 
program's present
value cost was
simplified by adding
the project cost for
the year 2000 to the
2001 figure.
aocir*t Cost       488,071,320.98                   488,071,320.98
pit yCost   1,431,385,882.31                                               1,431,385,882.31
Tial Costs        2,251,371,280.19   199,148,446.14  620,836,951.74         1,431,385,882.31
Benefits
Benefits Associated with the Improvement and Expansion of Student Flows
Flow Model and Estimation of Parameters
The estimation of the flow model was based on the approach developed by Klein (1999), which
considers promotion, repetition and drop-out rates, as well as the percentage of students transferred
from other school systems (federal or private, for example).
The main difficulty was not the calculation of the student flow, but rather the correct estimation of
the various student achievement rates mentioned above. Since data sets tend to display distinct
rates for the same year and grade, it is hard to tell which estimates should be used for the flow
calculation. Moreover, the estimation process is complicated by the fact that the magnitudes of the
rates are different for state and municipal systems.
The estimation method adopted is based on the fact that enrollments, promotion and repetition rates
are expected to oscillate in accordance with a historical trend independently of any external
intervention. In other words, we assume that it is very unlikely that the observed promotion and
repetition rates will be exactly the same in the future.
The flow of students was broken into three different segments: the secondary level of the state
system, the fundamental level of the state system in the 100 poorest municipalities in Bahia, and the
fundamental level of the municipal system in these same 100 municipalities. This segmented
analysis of the student flow gives better flow estimates than would an overall flow analysis that
considers only the aggregate results for each education level. First, the student flows for the without-
program scenario were estimated for the period 2001-2007, then the scenario with the intervention
was determined for the same period. Next, the number of students that would conclude each grade
was predicted for every year until 2007. Finally, once the number of concluding students per grade
was estimated for both scenarios, the difference was taken, in order to determine the increment in the
number of concluding students attributable to the intervention. Tables 4.3,4.4 and 4.5 display the
additional concluding students for each grade for the different segments of the student flow analysis.
Observe that the results shown in Table 03 take into account the expansion of coverage as well as the
improvement in school quality for the secondary system.
48



Table 4.3 - Additional concluding students in the secondary cycle
2____- 45814                 1624                         816
66893                 39253                         2574
79424                  65464                       37482
88796                 83202                        62131
78669                 92148                        78796
20________________ _ K83233               85370                       89864
2 en                91354                  88727                        83870
Table 4.4 - Additional concluding students in the fundamental cycle of the state system
: M    -.       864       482       471      458       478       389       324       279
1616     1234      1020      1109     1167      1002       852      753
2276     1968      1785      1805     2083       1936      1640     1449
2881     2628      2479      2684     3023      3145       2858     2373
2757     2809      2663      3040     3499      3787       3635     3310
.____.____O__________   2652  2774     2828      3233      3894      4257      4193     4072
2907            2560     2691      2789      3406     4095      4586       4570     4553
Table 4.5 - Additional concluding students in the fundamental cycle of the municipal
system
1904      979       882       693       413       279       209      145
3560     2620       1909      1761      1292      775       568      420
2083            5012     4336       3470      3331      2430      1825      1161     835
6346     5927      5223       5341      4215      3109      2422     1631
6073     6509      6080       6726      6090      4479      3510     2976
5842     6249      6506       7449      7513      6178      4757     4153
C__________________ i5639        6035       6310      7862       8391     7594      6417     5467
Marginal Rates of Return with Schooling
The private rates of return were calculated using high quality, up-to-date data from Brazil's yearly
household survey, PNAD (Pesquisa Nacional por Amostragem de Domicilios). The data were then
applied to an adapted Mincerian wage equation, which is:
Log Y = 2I38 di + yjAge + y2Age2 + y3 Black + y4 Female +
Where Y is the hourly wage received in all occupations the week before the survey and di is a
dummy variable having the value 1 if the individual has completed the i-th grade level of education
and the value 0 otherwise, so that a person having completed the fourth grade will have:
dl=d2=d3=d4 1 andd5=d6...dl5 = O.
In other words, the coefficient i shows the marginal log rate of return to the i-th grade level of
education. The equation was estimated for those between 15 and 65 years receiving positive income
during the week before the survey and living in urban areas.
49



Since we are observing only those individuals that are in the work force (otherwise, we would have
In (0) for people without any source of income), and the choice between home work or leisure and
wage work is not independent of the wage offered, there is an implied selection bias. The two-stage
Heckman correction term (based on the inverse Mills ratio) was then applied to the equation. The
unbiased estimation results are presented in Table 06. Observe that the Heckman correction slightly
changes the coefficients for education but that all of them remain statistically significant.
Benefits Associated with Gains in Productivity
The improvement in both Math and Portuguese scores indicates an augmentation of the overall
education quality of the school system. A reasonable way to quantify this benefit is by assuming that
gains in labor productivity are proportional to the increase in the quality of education. The benefits
due to quality improvements lead to higher academic achievement, which will eventually take the
form of higher labor productivity and a relative increase in earnings.
The main assumptions behind this analysis were that wage levels reflect the marginal productivity of
labor and that growth in marginal productivity will be related to the improvement in Math and
Portuguese test scores. However, it is very unlikely that there is a linear relation between them. Some
studies suggest, at best, a weak connection between test scores and wages. Thus, in the sensitivity
analysis section, the estimation of the NPV and IRR will take into consideration three possible
outcomes regarding productivity growth: 1%, 3%, and 5% growth in salary with the program
implementation.
The last step in determining the total amount of benefits was to multiply the number of additional
graduates per grade by the expected earnings, taking into account the average unemployment rate for
the state of Bahia. Unfortunately, only a portion of the additional graduates will have the opportunity
to enter the job market, which lowers the estimated benefits of the program.
The calculation of the total benefits took into account the expected additional graduates caused by the
program through the year 2007 (three years after concluding program implementation). Assuming
that these individuals will only retire when they reach age 60, their income streams with and without
the program were estimated to the year 2046. The income surplus generated by the program was
then determined and the total benefits estimated.
Calculating the Net Present Value of the Separable Components
The Net Present Value (NPV) analysis of the overall program should follow the corresponding
analysis of the separable components. Each component should justify itself as a marginal part of the
overall program and must have a positive NPV. If a separable component presents a negative NPV, it
should be dropped from the main program, even if the overall NPV of the program is positive. Thus,
the components were separated into three groups: (1) Component 1 (expansion of the secondary
level), (2) the combination of components 2 and 3 regarding the fundamental level, and (3) the
combination of components 2 and 3 regarding the secondary level.
According to Table 4.6, none of the separable components should be discarded, since they yielded
positive NPV's and thereby represent a positive marginal contribution to the overall program.
50



Table 4.6 - NPV of the Separable Components
Component 1                                    3,487,025,411.31
Fundamental Level - 2 and 3 combined                     306,607,828.97
Secondary Level - 2 and 3 combined                     1,073,272,853.90
Main Assumptions
Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values
The first step of the sensitivity analysis is to identify which variables most affect the program
outcomes by switching the values of the aggregate variables. Although a disaggregated approach
would give more detailed results, the analysis was applied only to the aggregated variables. The
primary goal is to find the switching value of a variable at which the program's NPV becomes zero
or the IRR is equivalent to the discount rate.
Table 4.7 presents the switching values of the relatively more important variables in order of
declining sensitivity. The most critical variable is the student income flow: the income flow must
decrease by more than 70 percent to make the NPV negative if other things remain as expected. The
program does not seem to be very risky, since it is reasonable to assume that the examined
aggregated variables are unlikely to present such high variations in their values.
Table 4.7 - Switching Values
Income Flow                                       -69%
Opportunity Cost                                   358%
Recurrent Cost                                    105D%
Direct Cost                                      1543%
This analysis presents some shortcomings: the aggregated variables give very rough estimates of the
sensitivity of the program and do not assist in judgments concerning the range of likely variation or
the specific measures that could reduce the risks associated with the program. In addition, like other
sensitivity analysis approaches, the switching values estimation does not take into account the
probabilities of occurrence of the events.
The IRR for Different Scenarios (Best, Middle, Worst)
The second step of the sensitivity analysis is to establish different scenarios for the program by
assuming three possible outcomes of the income flows determined by the corresponding effects of
the rates of promotion and repetition. The income flow impacts will determine changes in the
benefits and in the opportunity costs, whereas the other variables are not expected to be altered.
The worst scenario is that the program will only lead to an improvement of one percentage point over
the historical trend of the promotion rate. The one percent improvement scenario is very unlikely to
occur and can be seen as the most unfortunate of outcomes. The scenario that is most likely to take
place is the one entitled "Middle Scenario", where the increase in promotion rate estimated for the
program (see Program Goals and Components) is added to the current figures and not to the
historical trend. The best scenario is one in which the program's estimated increase in promotion rate
is incremented to the historical trend.
51



The sensitivity analysis also considers three possible outcomes regarding productivity growth related
to the improvement in tests scores. In this way, each scenario will present three estimates for IRR and
NPV: one in which there is a 1% increase in salary, another in which there is a 3% wage increase,
and finally one in which the salary is expected to grow 5% with the implementation of the program.
According to Table 4.8 both the NPV and the IRR for all scenarios are satisfactory. Even in the worst
scenario, the internal rate of return is greater than the Bank's standard discount rate of 10-12
percent. Another important feature is the low variability of the IRR across the scenarios. This means
that, although the program does not yield huge internal rates of return, there is a low risk of default
associated with its implementation.
Table 4.8 - Internal Rates of Return and Net Present Values of Possible Scenarios
26.38%                    22.58%                  20.81%
27.60%                    23.67%                  21.86%
28.81%                    24.75%                  22.90%
R$5,898,466,306A42        R$4,310,554,895.38      R$3,542,549,219.97
3A        0       7g X00R$6,384,498,098.37  R$4,716,711,891.84      R$3,915,761,710.90
__5_ _ _          R$6,870,529,890.33         R$5,122,868,888.30      R$4,288,974,201.82
Besides the assumptions presented in section 3. 1, there are additional possible sources of under or
overestimation of the rates presented above:
*  In the student flow estimation, no allowance was made for continued schooling. For
instance, in the fundamental cycle the fact that students finishing the eighth grade may
stay and achieve greater rates of return after secondary and higher education is
disregarded.
*  Other benefits, such as health insurance, vacation, 13th salary, and retirement plans were
not taken into account in the calculation of the income flows.
Despite the limitations associated with underlying assumptions of this analysis, it is certain that the
Projeto de Educacdo do Estado da Bahia should be implemented, given its low risk and the
substantial benefits that it will generate. The economic analysis reveals that investments to expand
the secondary school system and improve educational achievements through quality and educational
management increments in the fundamental and secondary levels will yield rates of return that are
significantly greater than the Bank's standard discount rate.
52



Annex 5
BRAZIL: BAHIA EDUCATION PROGRAM
Financial Summary
Bahia's current condition reflects a decade of conservative fiscal policy. Most of its fiscal
fundamentals are fairly strong. Although revenues stagnated during the late 1990's, they have
recently recovered. Fixed expenditures are low, with personnel costs equal to only 55% of net current
revenue. Interest obligations (after rescheduling) are less than ten percent of net revenues. The state's
debt stock is equal to about 1.5 times net current revenues.
Revenues
The state government's revenues are largely derived from a value added tax (VAT) which accounted
for about 60% of current revenues in 1999 and formula-based federal transfers, which accounted for
another 30%. As shown in Table 1 aggregate current revenues grew in the years immediately
following introduction of the Plano Real, but fell off, in real terms, in 1999. Results from the first
semester of 2000 suggest another sharp increase.
current revenues                 3984       500 1 5oo   284  5445  64 11
vat                              2508  2902822 2863  3110  3639
other own source                -91    168  212  218   220   179
interest income                  44    27   200  255   142   178
federal transfers                1265  1477 1691 1791  1820  1964
other                            77    79   83  1156   153   630
* estimated from results through June 2000
VAT           The state's-fiscal prospects depend to a great extent on the performance of the VAT.
It has performed erratically over the last fifteen years. Real revenues have roughly followed trends in
GDP, but with considerable variation from year to year. Inflation and Tanzi effects are clearly part of
the explanation for this. The VAT has proved vulnerable to inflation, and fell in real terms with the
high rates of inflation in the late 1980's, rebounding sharply after price stabilization under the Plano
Real. But even after inflation came down, the correspondence between economic growth and VAT
revenues remained weak. Real revenues declined after 1996, even while GDP continued to grow.
Federal policy explains part of the decline of revenues immediately after 1996. Under the so-called
"Lei Kandir", introduced in September 1996, the federal government required states to exempt most
international exports from the VAT and grant tax credits for purchases of capital goods. To
compensate the states, the law provided for a federal transfer in lieu of foregone revenues. The
amount of compensation falls short of the revenue the state has forgone.
Federal pricing policies-along with changing international oil prices-may also explain the recent
turnaround in VAT revenues. The most spectacular growth in VAT revenues-in both relative and
absolute terms--occurred in two sectors: petroleum and public utilities. Diesel prices and public
53



utility prices are subject to federal price controls. These have been sharply increased in the last
twelve months. Although gasohol is not subject to price controls, the price charged to retailers
reflects the pricing policies of Petrobras, which in turn reflects international market prices.
Improvements in tax administration may also be a factor. The state has made impressive efforts to
improve VAT administration. For its largest taxpayers, the state has stepped up efforts to identify
underassessments by analyzing discrepancies between volumes of taxable activity and existing tax
liabilities. The state has also increased inspections of goods in transit, to identify goods erroneously
labels as exports. It has improved coordination with taxing authorities at the federal and municipal in
order to identify firms now missing from the cadaster of VAT taxpayers. For small scale firms, the
state has introduced a simplified system of assessment.
It has also stepped up efforts to collect delinquent accounts. In an effort to encourage delinquent
taxpayers to settle, the state recently offered an tax amnesty. Legislation has also been enacted (Lei
7438/99) to increase the state's ability to negotiate administrative settlements with delinquent
taxpayers, thus avoiding the time and cost of pursuing delinquents through the courts.
With inflation largely under control, the outlook for VAT revenues largely depends on growth in the
state's GDP-particularly in sectors subject to the VAT. For purposes of this financial analysis, VAT
revenues are projected to grow at 3% per year from their estimated 2000 base. This reflects
conservative estimates of growth in the state VAT base and ignores any possible increase from
further improvements in tax administration.
Federal Transfers    Bahia derives about 30% of its revenues from federal transfers, the majority
of which are formnula-driven federal revenue sharing schemes. The largest of these-accounting for
62% of 1998 transfer revenues-is the so-called state participation fund, the FPE. Revenues of the
FPE are derived from fixed shares of federal income- and industrial products taxes and are
distributed among the states on the basis of population and the inverse of per capita income. The state
also derives a significant amount of transfer revenues from compensation funds for federally imposed
VAT exemptions and credits (including compensation for the Lei Kandir), health care costs eligible
for SUS reimbursements; and earmarked funds for education (the so-called salario educacao and a
share of federal Fundef transfers). The state is also allowed to retain the federal income tax payable
by its employees. The outlook for federal transfers largely depends upon trends in federal tax
collections. For purposes of this analysis, transfers were projected to grow at three percent annually
over their estimated 2000 base.
Expenditures
With its revenues growing slowly during the late 1990's, Bahia's fiscal condition has largely
depended on its ability to control expenditures. In this respect, it has succeeded. As shown in table 2,
except one-time costs associated with the sale of the state bank in 1998, total spending has increased
only modestly between 1996 and 1999, paralleling the slow growth in current revenues.
54



transfers to municipios  838     78        957       1075       903
interest              280        314       370      405        477
othercurrent          1024       1236      1280      1165       1536
Capital expenditure   1214       1365      3916      1378       1266
physical investment   567        949       949       790        657
financial investment    142      84        1773      119       388
amortization          444        297       743       49        20
other capital         62        134        452       0 
Notes: (1) personnel costs exclude disbursements to retirees by Funprev
(2) amortization payments in 1996 and 1997 largely consist of bond rollovers
(3) financial investments in 1998 include of costs associated with sale of bank
* based on results through June 2000
Personnel       Personnel is Bahia's largest single item of expenditure. The ability of Bahia (and all
other Brazilian states) to control personnel costs is constrained by Brazil's 1988 Constitution, which
prohibits reductions in staff (except for cause) and nominal salary cuts, and mandates costly
retirement benefits.' Prior to the Real Plan, many states used inflation to control personnel costs,
delaying nominal increases and thus allowing real wages to fall. The Real Plan, by virtually ending
inflation, rendered this strategy ineffective.
Bahia has nevertheless managed to control personnel costs, in part by having adopted a conservative
personnel policy before the Real plan went into effect. According to state figures, personnel expenses
were only 48% of net current revenues in 1994. The state also adjusted quickly to post-inflationary
conditions. Shortly after the Plano Real went into effect, the state introduced a voluntary departure
program allowing staff to quit in return for a one-time compensation package. Twelve thousand staff
reportedly took advantage of the program. The state also permitted staff to take standby status in
return for partial wage reductions. Wage increases in the post-Real period were confined to front-
line staff (teachers in the classroom, policemen on the street), and were granted in the form of
bonuses rather than general salary increases, so as to avoid increasing the base on which retirement
benefits are determined. More recently, the state has taken measures to extend the working hours of
existing staff in return for increased compensation. This permits the state to avoid hiring additional
staff, with the training costs-and eventual retirement costs-that this would imply.
Retirement costs, however, are rapidly growing claim on Bahia's resources. In 1997, payments to
retirees equaled sixteen percent of total personnel costs. By 1998, the proportion had increased to 21-
232%, and a state-contracted actuarial study estimated that this percentage would increase to 50% in
2011.
To address this threat, the state has chosen to establish a fund, termned Funprev. Funprev has two
principal sources of revenues: payroll contributions and earnings on assets, largely derived from the
sale of state enterprises. As discussed in a recent Bank study, the fundamental problem in the pension
' Recent amendments to the Constitutions have loosened these restrictions, but apply only to staff
hired after the amendments went into effect.
2 Figures differ depending on source.
55



system is the generosity of retirement benefits. Any solution that focuses solely on increasing
resources is likely to be untenable. Changes in retirement benefits require reform in federal
legislation.
Debt
Bahia's debt stock has four major components. The first consists of long standing debts to foreign
creditors which were rescheduled under nationwide agreements in 1989 and mid- 1 990s. Constituting
12% of the total stock, it now takes the form of 20 year obligations (extendable to 30 years) to the
federal treasury, with interest rates based on original contract terms. It continues to be denominated
in foreign currency, and is therefore vulnerable to exchange rate fluctuations. A devaluation in 1999
was responsible for much of the recent increase in the stock of this debt. The second block-
accounting for 37 % of the total--consists of longstanding debts to federal banks which were
rescheduled in 1993. These now take the form of 30 year debts to the treasury, denominated in
Reais. Interest rates are based on original contract terms.
Both blocks of rescheduled debt are subject to a debt service ceiling. If the ratio of state debt service
obligations to revenues rises above the threshold, the excess can be capitalized into the stock of debt,
to be paid when debt service falls below the threshold amount or in the ten years after the expiration
of the original twenty year repayment period.
The third block is a more recent phenomenon. It is largely comprised of rescheduled states bonds and
a large debt contracted to finance the sale of the state bank; both under the rubric of Lei 9697. The
bonds were rescheduled in 1997, with the federal government transforming what had been 5 year
bonds rolled over on a daily basis into a long term (30 year) debt to the federal treasury. Two years
later, the federal government lent the state R$ 1.602 billion to finance the recapitalization of the
state development bank-DESENBANCO--and the commercial bank-BANEB. Once solvent,
DESEMBANCO was converted into a non-deposit taking development fund. BANEB was sold.)
This loan was provided on the same terms as the earlier bond rescheduling: six percent real interest
and thirty years to maturity. Both debts were made subject to the debt service ceiling noted above.
The fourth block consists of recent project borrowing. While older rescheduled debt is being
gradually amortized, it has been replaced by new project loans from external donors and federal
financial institutions. Part of this is comprised of housing and sanitation loans from the Caixa
Economica. The state has also borrowed extensively from the IDB (for highway and water/sanitation
projects), and to a smaller extent from IBRD. BNB has helped finance the expansion of Salvador's
airport. BNDES and BNB have provided a large share of the counterpart financing for multilateral
loans. Taken together, recent federal bank lending and external financing accounts for about 28% of
the total debt stock. As a result, Bahia's debt: revenue ratio has increased significantly. At the end of
1995, the debt:revenue ratio stood at 1.5:1. By the end of 1999, it had risen to 2:1.
56



---      11          1~~~~~1996    199         199     -   199
7976            t353     ~  T410         409w         1405        1505
8727            12,360       12,795     12,945    _3,068          13,251
9496                                      890         2,063        2,437
bonds            579         738          -
CEF, BNB, BNDES 432          226          334         539          793
other internal*  153         324          346         398          661
external         181         228          323         482          776
total           4,057        4,721        5,247       6,956        8,424
* largely consisting of BEA and DMLP
The recurrent cost implications of these debts have, so far, been fairly moderate. Because virtually all
the debt is either rescheduled or long-term project lending, immediate amortization costs are low.
Most of the state's debt service obligations over the next several years will therefore consist of
interest, rather than amortization. Because the vast majority of the state's debt is owed to the federal
government, it bears the relatively low interest rates associated with long term federal financing.
Project impact
The proposed project is part of a two-phase APL, with the first phase to be implemented over
2.5years at a cost of US$ 116 million, and the second over two years at a cost of $100 million. Both
phases are included in this analysis. In addition, this analysis covers a parallel IBRD-financed APL in
the health sector, with a total project cost of US$ 166.7 million to be implemented within
approximately the same time frame.
-Trends in Balances                       To  assess the state's ability  to
provide  counterpart funding  and
20%                                                   |  service   the   proposed   debts,
15%      __-                     fprojections of each major item  of
10%  -.                       _ j                        cash flow and of the stock of debt
(D  5%                                                n t cu-rrent count   were made for the period 2000-
a>  0%                       j_     |       surplus         2005. For all major items, except
>   0%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_ 5%                   /- !overall                          capital  works  and   borrowing,
a  ;              -<             - i   surplus/deficit    results for 2000 were based on
_ -1O_   _- _    _                                          performance in the first six months
-15%                                                     of the year.
-20%
-- ----          ---- -   --- -- -   ----- ----- -   -   The key assumptions for the five
subsequent years are as follows. Current revenues are projected to grow at 3% per year (as noted
earlier). Personnel costs are also projected to grow at 3% per year over their estimated 2000 base. (In
the absence of federal legislation reducing the state's pension liabilities, actual personnel costs are
likely to be higher, particularly in the outer years.) Expenditures on capital works-including
counterpart funding for the proposed IBRD loans--are projected to increase by 3% per year over their
estimated 2000 levels. Interest and amortization costs are projected on the basis of the terms of
existing and proposed debt, including the two Bank APLs.
57



The result of these projections, shown in Table 4 and in the chart above, is a fairly promising fiscal
outlook. As shown in Table 4, the state would maintain a current account surplus of about 15 percent
of revenues over the projection period, and an overall surplus of about three percent of net current
revenues. The debt:revenue ratio would decline slightly (due to growth in revenues, rather than
reductions in the stock of debt.) Debt service, even without federal debt service caps, would range
from 13% to 15% of net current revenue.
The state should have little difficulty providing counterpart funding. At its peak (in 2003) counterpart
funding (on both phases of both APLs) would equal about 13 percent of the state's capital works
budget. The projects' debt implications are also modest. Total disbursements of both phases of the
two APLs would equal US$230 million, or about five percent of the total debt stock in 2004. Debt
service on the loans, once the grace period on amortization expired, would equal one percent of net
current revenues.
current account surplus/RLR             9%      15%     14%      15%      15%     15%
overall surplus/deficit/RLR            -9°/     3%o      2°%      3%°      3%°     3%
debt revenue ratio                      2.0     L.5      1.4      1.4      1.3     1.3
Counterpart fulnding as % capital works  0%     0%/      4%M      7%S     1°       9%
debt service/RLR                       20%      130/    150/     150%    14        4%
primary surplus/RLR                    -2%      5%      10%      10%°10           10%
Consistency with Federal debt ceilingsThe proposed loans are broadly consistent with federal
restrictions on state debt, and the state's recent refinancing agreement with the federal government.
Under Senate Resolution 78 (of July 1998) states are prohibited from taking on new debt if (1) the
total volume of borrowing exceeds 18% of real current revenue (RLR)3; (2) debt service exceeds
13% of RLR; or (3) the state has not shown a positive primary surplus in the preceding 12 months.
The Resolution also prohibits new lending if the total stock exceeds 1.9 times RLR in 1999,
descending by one tenth percentage point in each subsequent year until it reaches 1:1. Bahia satisfies
the first three of these conditions. It would marginally violate the last. As shown in the table above,
debt service over the projection period would slightly exceed 13% of net current revenues (although
within the margin of error.)
The state's recent debt refinancing agreement with the federal government requires Bahia to reduce
its debt revenue ratio according to an annual schedule. Based on the projection made at the time of
the agreement, the proposed Bank loans would cause the state to deviate from this schedule.
Exemptions for these operations were therefore included in the agreement. Recent increases in
revenues may render this exceptions moot.
3The definition of RLR has changed several times since the resolution went into effect. As of
this writing, it was equal to current revenues less constitutionally mandated transfers to
municipalities.
58



Annex 6
BRAZIL: BAHIA EDUCATION PROGRAM
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995
(revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised
in September 1997 and January 1999); and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Procurement Methods
The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the estimated amounts for
each method, are summarized in Table 6.1. The threshold contract values for the use of each
method are fixed in Table 6.2.
Procurement of Works
Works procured under this project could include rehabilitation and construction of educational
facilities, totaling US$23.8 million equivalent. Contracts would be procured using National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, using standard bidding documents agreed in advance
with the Bank. Small works, estimated to cost less than US$350,000 equivalent per contract, up
to an aggregate amount of US$6.0 million, may be procured on the basis of at least three
quotations received in response to a written invitation, which will include a detailed description
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant architectural drawings, where applicable.
Procurement of Goods
Goods procured under this project would include educational materials (such as textbooks,
supplementary books, didactic materials), computer equipment and software, school furniture,
printing services, totaling US$30.3 million equivalent. To the extent possible, contracts for these
goods will be grouped into bidding packages of more than $350,000 equivalent and procured
following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, using Bank-issued Standard
Bidding Documents (SBDs). Contracts with estimated values below this threshold per contract
and up to an aggregate amount of US$ 3.7 million may be procured using National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures and standard bidding documents agreed with the Bank. Contracts for
goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 3.2 million, may be procured using
shopping (National /International) procedures based on a model request for quotations
satisfactory to the Bank.
59



Selection of Consultants
Consulting services will be contracted under this project for training, technical assistance, studies
and other relevant activities. These services are estimated to cost US$23.3 million equivalent.
Firms. All contracts for firms would be procured using QCBS and Bank Standard Request for
Proposals, except for small and simple contracts estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or less
that would be procured using Least Cost Selection, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 600,000.
Finally, because of the nature of some activities, some contracts may be awarded on the basis of
Single Source Selection, as per paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject
to Bank's prior approval on a case by case basis and up to an aggregate amount of US$3.8
million.
Individuals. Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected
and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$3.4 million equivalent.
School Subprojects
In this category, grants will be made up to US$80,000 equivalent per school and up to an
aggregate amount of US$28.5 million. Contracts for small rehabilitation works and for goods to
improve school quality, consisting of, inter alia, educational materials, school and classroom
equipment, school supplies, and materials for physical maintenance will be procured by
obtaining quotations from at least three qualified contractors and suppliers, with community
participation, or through other local arrangements acceptable to the Bank and included in the
PIP.
DIREC Subprojects
This category will finance subprojects, up to US$150,000 equivalent per DIREC for the hiring of
services for school or educational support, such services to be selected on the basis of
qualifications of individuals, in accordance with the procedures described in the PIP. These
contracts will be procured at the DIREC level, with a total aggregate amount of US$3.0 million.
Incremental Operational Costs
Operational Costs refers to the management and supervision of the Project, including
maintenance and supplies, communication services, and spare parts for office equipment. It also
includes travel and subsistence expenses for Secretariat, DIREC, and school's staff, and logistic
costs for project-related workshops and seminars. These activities are estimated to cost US$7.1
million equivalent.
Prior Review Thresholds
The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity assessment of
Secretariat's Procurement Team and are summarized in Table 6.2.
60



Assessment of the Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement
An assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement actions for the project has
been carried out and was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor on November 15,
1999. The overall risk has been considered as AVERAGE. As per LACI Implementation
Handbook - LIH, the project was certified as a "B", indicating that the project satisfies the
Bank's minimum procurement management requirements.
The COPE's Special Committee will have primary responsibility for carrying out procurement
activities. The Secretariat has implemented the Third Northeast Basic Education Project
(LN3663-BR), closed on December 31, 1999, and will be implementing the FUNDESCOLA II
Project (LN4487-BR). Civil works will be carried out by the "Superintendencia de Construq5es
Administrativas da Bahia (SUCAB)", with Secretariat's supervision.
The risks identified in the assessment include: (a) the procurement team is not satisfactorily
staffed and trained; (b) lack of substantial knowledge on the Bank's procurement procedures and
insufficient language (English) skills; and (c) no procurement plan.
The plan to address such deficiencies includes: (a) hiring new staff for the team, preferably with
English skills; (b) promoting training (after the procurement team is completed); (c) preparing
the procurement plan at the beginning of each year.
The PIP includes the procurement document flows. Specific procurement manual will be
prepared, including the standard Bidding Documents to be used for each procurement method, as
well as model contracts for works and goods procured on the basis of three quotations or
shopping.
Procurement Plan
The Borrower submitted the revised procurement plan for the first year of project
implementation during negotiations. At the beginning of each calendar year, the Borrower will
update the Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment has recommended one full supervision mission to visit the field to carry out post-
review of procurement actions. Based on the overall risk assessment (AVERAGE), the post-
review field analysis should cover a sample of not less than 1 in 10 contracts signed.
Financial Management Arrangements
The financial management systems of SEC were reviewed by a Bank Financial Management
Specialist during pre-appraisal for compliance with OP/BP 10.02 and the Loan Administration
Change Initiative (LACI) Implementation Handbook. Based on this review, the project was
certified as a "B", indicating that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. However, the project financial management system cannot currently generate
61



quarterly project management reports (PMRs). In the event that the financial management
system is not ready to generate PMRs by loan effectiveness, disbursements would be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs), except for goods above US$350,000 equivalent,
and contracts with consulting firms above US$100,000 equivalent and with individuals above
US$50,000. In theses cases all contracts information has to be attached to the Summary Sheet
(SS). The information required for the compilation of SOEs would be maintained by the CLS in
the MIS data base. An action plan was prepared and agreed for SEC to adequate the system and
be able to generate PMRs within six months from the date of the Loan Agreement (Financial,
Monitorable Indicators and Procurement). The annual financial audit will include a separate
opinion on the eligibility of expenditures disbursed on the basis of PMRs.
Special Account
The Borrower will establish a special account in US Dollars, in a commercial bank, with an
authorized allocation based on projected disbursements for four months (US$6 million, with an
initial allocation of US$2 million until disbursements reach an amount of US$4 million
equivalent), so as to initiate disbursements under the traditional disbursement methodology.
PMRs- Based Disbursement
Once the Bank approves the Borrower's financial report system for PMR-based disbursements,
the following procedures will apply:
X All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into a Special
Account based upon Table 6.3. Each such deposit into the Special Account will be
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the eligible categories.
* Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special Account
must be supported by a Project Management Report.
* Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to
the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has
determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying that application, is
required to be deposited in order to finance eligible expenditures during the six-month period
following the date of the Financial Management Report, provided, however, that the amount
so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by the Project Management Report to be
remaining in the Special Account, cannot exceed the amount of US$12,000,000.
* In the case of a faster than expected draw-down of the Special Account, an interim PMR may
be submitted to request a supplemental disbursement prior to the next scheduled quarterly
disbursement request.  All supporting documentation authenticating the expenditures
reported in the PMRs will be maintained by the SEC and made available for review by
auditors and Bank missions as requested.
Auditing Arrangements
Following arrangements for Bank-financed projects in Brazil, annual auditing is determined by
the Secretaria Federal de Controle - SFC. The Special Account will be audited in conjunction
62



with the annual financial audit of the project accounts for the period January 1 to December 31
of the year carried out by Tribunal de Contas do Estado da Bahia, which is acceptable to the
Bank to perform.the Bank's financed projects in that State, under the terms of the protocol of
understanding agreed between the Bank and Ministry of Finance. The audit will be performed
according to tenns of reference acceptable to the Bank.. The audit report will be submitted to the
Bank no later than June 30 in the year following the year for which the project accounts are
audited. The Auditor's TOR will include the issuance of a management letter on internal controls
six months after effectiveness.
Table 6.1: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
Expe_dftw  Catgoy                                       Procurement Method                               Total Cost
TTR               NCB                    r          N.B.F
1. Works                                                         12.30            6.0010            5.50                     23.80
(6.15)         (3.00)                                      (9.15)
2. Goods                                          23.4             3.70           3.200/                                     30.30
(12.75)         (1.50)          (1.30)                                    (15.55)
3. Consultants' Services                                                         10.50c'          12.80                      23.30
(10.50)                                    (10.50)
4. School Subprojects'                                                          28.50                                        28.50
(28.50)                                    (28.50)
5. DIREC Subprojects ef                                                           3.00                                         3.00
(3.00)                                     (3.00)
6. Incremental Operational                                                        7.10                                         7.10
Costs ~
(2.90)                                     (2.90)
TOTAL                                            23.40           16.0            58.30            18.30                      116.0
.___________________________             (12.75)           (7.65)        (49.20)                                      (69.6)
N.B.F.: Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan. All costs include contingencies.
Footnotes:
a! Three Quotations: Small works procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation . The award shall be made to the contractor who: (a) offers
the lowest price quotation for the required work, and (b) has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
b/ Shopping (National and International)
c/ Consultants' Services: Contracts awarded to firms using Quality-and Cost-Based selection (QCBS), Least Cost Selection, Single-
Source selection, and to individual consultants. Details provided in Table 6.1.1.
d/ School Subprojects: This category will finance school improvement projects, allotments for schools to meet minimum operational
standards, and yearly allotments for schools to maintain minimum operational standards. The maximum allotment would be US$
80,000 per school.
e/ DIREC Subprojects: The maximum allotment would be US$ 150,000 per DIREC.
f/ Operational Costs: Incremental operational costs related to the management and supervision of the Project, including maintenance
and supplies, communication services and spare parts for office equipment. It also includes travel, subsistence and logistic-related
expenses. Services will be contracted through local procedures acceptable to the Bank and included in the PIP.
63



Table 6.1.1: Consultant Selection Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
!~~~~~QB    QBS   SF    LCS   CQ5                             Other  N.B 1    S
A. Firmns            2.70                         0.60                3.80      12.8         19.90
(2.70)                       (0.60)              (3.80)                 (7.10)
B. Individuals                                                        3.40                   3.40
(3.40)                (3.40)
TOTAL                2.70                         0.60                7.20      12.8        23.30
(2.70)                       (0.60)              (7.20)                (10.50)
Note: QCBS: Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS: Quality-Based Selection
SFB: Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS: Least-Cost Selection
CQ: Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
OTHER: Single Source Selection, Individual Consultants.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Table 6.2: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
HLL'i S, ' ~~~~~~~~~~~P.revw
US $ thousands                                   US $ millions
1. Works                      >350 < 5,000              NCB             First 2 contracts
<350                Three Quotations     None (Post Review)
2. Goods                       >350                      ICB            All
>100 < 350               NCB             First 2 contracts
<100                   Shopping          None (Post Review)
3. Consultants
Firms                       >200                     QCBS            All (including Technical
Evaluation)
>100 <200             QCBS, LCS          All (except for
Technical Evaluation)
<100                      LCS            Review of TOR only
Individuals                 > 50                See Section V of     All (TOR, contract, CV)
Guidelines
<50                See Section V of     None, except TOR and
Guidelines        CV for Project
Coordination Staff
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
64



High
Average    X
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 month(s) (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review) reviewing a sample of 1 in 10 contracts signed.
Table 6.3: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expediture Catgry             Amwut i    U  tin   -                 ?       g
I .Works                                    8,400               50% of local expenditures
2.Goods                                     10,900            100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 40% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
3. Consultants' Services                     9,600             100% of foreign expenditures
and 100% of local expenditures
4. School Subprojects                       25,800              100% of amounts disbursed
under School Grants
5. DIREC Subprojects                         2,600              100% of amounts disbursed
under DIREC Grants
6. Incremental Operational Costs             2,900              40% of local expenditures
7. Bank front-end fee                        0.696
8. Unallocated                               8,704
Total                         69,600
65



Annex 7
BRAZIL: BAHIA EDUCATION PROGRAM
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
1                                           _1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
t                - .......................  0  0,. lg 000-.06/27/98    06/27/98
t0           -- ggggUgg: gpk gg;g   _      ~~~~03/02/99                  04/10/00
04/13/99                    06/26/00
PhnQER         pf d                                       08/31/99                     03/20/00
Prepared by: Alberto Rodriguez
Document preparation assistance: Amber K. Gove and Lucianna Areas
Bank staff, consultants and Ministry staff who worked on the project included:
Alberto Rodrfguez (World Bank)              Task Tea_ Leader; Education
Robert Verhine (Consultant)                 Education Finance
Patrick Supanc (World Bank)                 Management and Institutional Capacity
Robin Horn (World Bank)                     Education Economist
Kate Hovde (Consultant)                     Education
Amber Gove (Consultant)                     Education, Social and Poverty Analyses
Kimberly Curtis (Consultant)                Education
Alvana Boff (MEC-FUNDESCOLA)                Education (MEC)- Padroes Minimos
Marcus Verhine (Consultant)                 Economist
Mayra Tapia (MEC-FTNDESCOLA)                Education (MEC)- Student Testing
David Plank (Consultant)                    Monitoring and Evaluation
Adelia Portela (Consultant)                 Social Assessment
Jose Augusto Carvalho (World Bank)          Attorney
Adriana Weisman (World Bank)                Procurement Plan
Daniela Marques (World Bank)                Procurement Assessment
Tulio Henrique Correa (World Bank)          Financial Management
Enaldo Vergasta (Consultant)                Document preparation
Esme Abedin (World Bank)                    Environmental Assessment
Patricio Millan (World Bank)                Human Development, Sector Leader
Madalena Dos Santos (World Bank)            Education
Katia Macedo (World Bank)                   Task Assistant
Solange V. Veldhuizen (World Bank)          Task Assistant
Lucianna Areas                              Program Assistant
66



Annex 8
BRAZIL: BAHIA EDUCATION PROGRAM
Documents in the Project File*
1. Exame Nacional do Ensino Medio: 1998. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais
- INEP, Brasilia, 1998.
2. Avaliac,ao de Concluintes do Ensino Medio: 1997. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1998.
3. Ensino Medio e Educa,co Profissional no Estado da Bahia: Diagnostico Elementos Estrategicos:
Convenio entre a Secretaria de Educa,co do Estado da Bahia e Instituto Miguel Calmon.
Altiplanos Planejamento Engenharia e Consultoria Ltda.
4. Financiamento da educa,ao basica: Um estudo de receitas e gastos das redes de ensino da Bahia:
1998. Universidade Federal da Bahia: Faculdade de Educagao/Programa de Pos-Gradua,ao em
Educa,co, Centro de Estudos Interdisciplinares para o Setor Publico - ISP.
5. Determinac,ao de Custos Educacionais: Uma Analise Panoramica do Estado da Arte: 1998.
Robert E. Verhine, Universidade Federal da Bahia.
6. Diretrizes Curriculares Nacionais Para o Ensino Medio: 1998. Conselheira Guiomar Namo de
Mello: Ministerio da Educa,co e do Desporto - Conselho Nacional de Educa,ao.
7. Redirecionamento do Ensino Medio e Profissional do Estado do Bahia -Diretrizes-: 1996-1998.
Governo do Estado da Bahia, Secretaria da Educa,ao - SEC, Departamento de Ensino - DEE.
8. Projeto da Educa,co do Estado da Bahia Ensino Medio -Estudos Preliminares- Linha de A,ao
IA: A9oes Preparat6rias: I: Julho 1998. Secretaria da Educagao - SEC, Superintendencia de
Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD, Departamento de Desenvolvimento Educacional -
DESEN.
9. Projeto da Educa,cao do Estado da Bahia Ensino Medio -Estudos Preliminares- Linha de A,ao
IA: A,oes Preparat6rias: II, II, IV, V: Julho 1998. Secretaria da EducacAo - SEC,
Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD, Departamento de Desenvolvimento
Educacional - DESEN.
10. Projeto da Educa,co do Estado da Bahia Ensino Medio -Estudos Preliminares- Linha de A,ao
IA: Acoes Preparat6rias: VIII: Julho 1998. Secretaria da Educa,ao - SEC, Superintendencia de
Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD, Departamento de Desenvolvimento Educacional -
DESEN.
11. Projeto da Educa,ao do Estado da Bahia Ensino Medio -Estudos Preliminares- Linha de Acao
IA: A9oes Preparat6rias: VI: Julho 1998. Secretaria da Educa,cao - SEC, Superintendencia de
Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD, Departamento de Desenvolvimento Educacional -
DESEN.
12. Projeto da Educa,ao do Estado da Bahia Ensino Medio -Estudos Preliminares- Linha de A,ao
IB: Acoes Preparat6rias: XIII e XIV: Julho 1998. Secretaria da Educa,co - SEC,
Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD, Departamento de Desenvolvimento
Educacional - DESEN.
13. Projeto da Educa,ao do Estado da Bahia Ensino Medio -Estudos Preliminares- Linha de A,ao 2:
A,oes Preparat6rias: IV: Julho 1998. Secretaria da Educac,o - SEC, Superintendencia de
Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD, Departamento de Desenvolvimento Educacional -
DESEN.
14. Projeto da Educa,ao do Estado da Bahia Ensino Medio -Estudo- Linha de A,ao: Componente 1:
Setembro 1998. Secretaria da Educacao - SEC, Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento
Educacional - SUD, Departamento de Desenvolvimento Educacional - DESEN.
67



15. Brazil: A Call to Action: Combating School failure in the Northeast of Brazil: 1997. Ministry of
Education/Northeast Basic Education Project - The World Bank - UNICEF.
16. Plano Nacional de Educacao Brasilia, 1998.
17. Evolu,ao da Educacao Basica no Brasil: 1991-1997. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
18. Fundo de Manuten,co e Desenvolvimento do Ensino Fundamental e de Valorizacao do
Magisterio: guia para sua operacionaliza,co. Ministerio da Educacao e do Desporto -MEC,
Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educa,co FNDE, Sao Paulo 1997.
19. Carta Lei Darcy Ribeiro no. 9.394, de 1996: emendas A constitui,Ao nos. 11 e 14, de 1996 e Lei
9.424, de 1996, Diretrizes e Bases da Educaqao Nacional. Gabinete do Senador Darcy Ribeiro,
Brasilia, 1997.
20. Sistematica de Financiamento do Ensino Fundamental. Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da
Educa,ao, FNDE, Ministerio da Educa,ao e do Desporto -MEC, Brasilia, 1997.
21. Dinheiro na Escola: procedimentos operacionais. Ministerio da EducacAo e do Desporto - MEC,
Brasilia. 1997.
22. Manual de Orientacao para Constituicao de Unidades Executoras. MEC - Secretaria de Educacao
Fundamental, Brasilia, 1997.
23. Sistema Nacional de Avaliacao da Educacao BAsica, SAEB/95: resultados estaduais. Instituto
Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
24. Ditos sobre a Evasao Escolar: estudos de casos no estado da Bahia. Paulo Roberto Holanda
Gurgel. Ministerio da Educa,ao e do Desporto - MEC, Projeto de Educa,co BAsica para o
Nordeste, Brasilia, 1997.
25. Educacao, Escola e Comunidade: estudo piloto no estado da Bahia. Ad6lia Luiza Portela and Eni
Santana Barretto Bastos. Ministerio da Educa,co e do Desporto - MEC, Projeto de Educacao
Basica para o Nordeste, Brasilia, 1997.
26. Chamada A Acao: combatendo o fracasso escolar no Nordeste. Projeto Nordeste, Banco Mundial,
UNICEF, Brasilia 1997.
27. Li,ces e Praticas 1 -13. Varias Autores, Projeto Nordeste, Banco Mundial, UNICEF, Brasilia
1997.
28. Guia de Consulta, Programa de Apoio aos Secretarios Municipais de Educa,ao (PRASEM).
Projeto Nordeste, Banco Mundial, UNICEF, Brasilia 1997.
29. Lessons from New American Schools' Scale-Up Phase, Susan R. Bodilly, Rand Corporation,
1998.
30. Design-Based Assistance as a Cornerstone of a School Improvement Strategy, Thomas K.
Glennan, Jr., New American Schools. 1997.
31. How to Create Incentives for Design-Based Schools, Paul T. Hill, New American Schools, 1997.
32. How to Engage Educators, Parents, and the Community in Design-Based School Change, NAS,
1997.
33. Blueprints for School Success: A Guide to New American Schools Designs, Educational
Research Service, 1998.
34. Creating World Class Schools: A Progress Report on the Memphis City Schools, Memphis City
Schools, 1997.
*Including electronic files.
68



Annex 9
BRAZIL: BAHIA EDUCATION PROGRAM
Statement of Loans and Credits
OffWerwtweoeqr4d
and atdu
Oia nal Amuu in L$ M18ons                       dgiiaiu60
Rqe  ID                 FrY      rsn                                  ras                                             ISD            IA          Gmr4         Lds4            Oig       FmrmP$d
Number of Closed Projects: 198
0e43074                   1999   WAIMJ N       5CF3 L                 Os9EEESA UAN                                    100.00           0.00           0.o0          9652        1152          o.00
IFlE4UsM                  1999  TEERTAE.FBLICCFJ       R              skLWuML6      TR"M                              150OD            000            000         150.00         .00          ow.
ER;E450763                I009    >o'SW.L                              rJ,    5A2                                     20Z.03           0.00           0.00        20203          000          0.00
Br0s412D                  1999   C)RSI    ENrCFB4.L                   RO2                                             165.00           0.00           000          144.73       19.73         o.M
0RFE50389                 1999   RLrJ CYW01L                         A*J   OLsaR osD                                   44.00           0.00           0.00         44C0          000          0.00
eR4E0012s                  5999     RLGDJIR#8Nr                       BA.ER P55FBeAN4                                  15.00           OX            0o00           15.00        0.00         O.
es372t                    1000   SrATECOFBHA                               HA wR rF l                                  5500 0s00                      0.00          39.36       21 05         .00
mRFEaws9                   1sst   NTA4ECFBaL                          EWIREM                                          19¶.00           0.00           o.wo         171.50       4357          ow.o
0400897                   1s9t  GT         O U RMCFSWL                SC0TE0   3                                      15500            000            0.00           3767       27.67         0.00
140E4003                  1005   THESrATECFMShSC S                      3STATEmRV                                     170i00          o000            ow           170i0   I00                0.00
e04260                    1000   STATECFPA6EB                         5P5IBAR0ORY                                       0.00           000            0 00          456.         0.44         0.00
0404340                   1sst  FED FR Jr CFfeiZL                     wAI M&MM2                                       100.00           0.00           0.00         10000        4151          0.50
040E43421                 1998   SrATCFR0OEfW00                       Ri N1AW8STRFR.                                  186.00           0.00           0.00         10600        93.64         0.00
B4a413067                  199S   F.R0UCCfBPZL                        CEBNEATAL                                        20.OD           000           0o0            1003        1133          0o0
EP0762                    199i   G2Iv CFWZL                           RJ'.mA1                                          62.50           0.00           0.00         27.13       -2036          0.00
040ES1701                 199i   SrATECFMPF 5O                        WM4N DR9No3-R     `                               0000           0.0            0.00          5952        -0.37         0.00
ERF4 57500                1st   Gfft4A CF;PZL                          ESCNEF0 MUL                                      5.00           000            000           500          500          0.00
e0E6474                    Iwo   STATECFSPO S   tDJ                   LPDtCIVI3(S                                      00.00           0.00           0.00          500          950          0.00
B5I4 9640                1iwo   las                                   GCSSC R00D/F00I                                 130.00           0.00           000          130.00       92.00         000
04FEEt60                  1998  T-ESrATEU°OFSFWI                      w4(8wTsW                                         660            0.00           0.00         4500         25.00         0.00
040340578                 1997   ROGCE200Si.                           BR0HMIS7                                        70.00           0.00          0oo           65.90        2591          021
8WE39800                  1907   sTATECFIU                            RPOARI4                                          24.00           000            0.00          1477         4.0         0e00
ME042586                  1997   STATEC844*fRO                        Rm22rYF                                          39.00           0.00           0.00          1351         010          0.00
eRff4386                  1997   SrATECFR)S                          FrELMNO1.9300IrY                                 10000            000            0.00          940         2120          0.00
ERFE43871                 1997  STATCFPLJJ                            PAU)IRSRrY                                       30.00           0.00           000             76          .14         0.00
0R0E43073                 1997    EDR.FeCFBSL                        A2TECHOEV.                                        60.00           ow.o           ex            46.96       105           o.o
5R4E46052                  5997  TFIESATECFIATOGO                     O1R5AWIR5 4r                                      9.60           00             00.0           7.46        746          000
ER40470                   1007   FE reP.COBW tL                       MTSTATER4V.                                      45.00           O.O0          0o2 200                    20.09         0.00
BRf46475                  1507    RLCIflhT0                           LANDRUVIRLT                                      90.00           0.00           000           5.34        1864          0.00
eAFE5432                  1097   STATECFBAHA                          5tD4 Nfl.8R                                     30000            0.00           000          25219       102.19         000
0e16s962                  1007   srATECFWARJA                         6HA5NtN                                        150000 0o00                      0.00          9079        33.79         421
eR4003782t                Iwo   RATFE5I     .CRUCCaER                   FGRIRY                                        175.00           0.00           0.00         1389 7         06B         0.50
e40400x2                  19iw   OSA                                  RWVAN054R6.URG                                  350.00           00             D.00          37 42       47.42        30.00
eA00E6512                 19i6  FEE5 RR CF      L                     Bw No                                            50.00          0e00            0.00         2307         11.0          0.00
045Ei0604                 1w6o  G2T25( AZIL                           FLTHsaRRR                                       300200           000            0.0         224.52       147.01        000
ER070517                  1995  FE454.000CFB*AL                       R.78L221004"                                    105.00           000            0.00          4213        15.15         0.00
69



and wtual
Oigna Anunf in LSs Mlliia            dsrmtsa
Rnj6e ID           FY   Bontw                       R.lsoIe IBPO                                     ICA        1.    Lhisb         Ojg      rnrm d
9sF506              1992  GDAJr 2F91ZL              kWToIN4SrES                         20s5.0       o.o o       05        53.09    53.08      0.00
Tota:    6,103163    0o0        10430     3,47382   1,52756    1129
Active        Closed
Projects      Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRO and IDA):    2,619.45       18,377.82     20,997.27
of which has been repaid:      216.08      13,689.98      13,906.06
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:    5,877.24        4,747.22      10,624.48
Amount sold:         0.00          45.83          45.83
of which repaid:        0.00         45.83          45.83
Total Undisbursed:    3,473.82          59.38       3.533.20
o Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
70



Annex 10
BRAZIL: BAHIA EDUCATION PROGRAM
Country at a Glance
Latin    Upper-                                       91/999
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America   middle-
Brazil  & Carib,  Income       Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                      165.9       502       588                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   4,570      3,940     4,860
GNP (Atlas method, USS bilflons)                     758.0      1,978     2,862
Averaga annual growth, 1992-98
Population (9%)                                        1.4        1.6       1.4
Labor force (%)                                        1.7        2,3       2.0     GNP                              Gross
per    -      -                 primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                               capita                        enrollment
Poverty (9% of population below national poverty hne)   17
Urban population (X of totalpopulation)                 80        75        77
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        67        70        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                34        32        27
Child malnutribon (% of children under 5)                6         8                          Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  69        75        79
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                     16        13        11                   /
Gross primary enrollment (96 of school-age population)  123      113       108            Brazl
Male                                                                      ..              Upper-middle-income group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                          176.2    294.1      820,4    750.8
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                22.1     22.3       21.3      21.2                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             7.3      9.5        7.6       6.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   21.4     25,6       18.6      18.8
Gross national savingslGDP                   19.7     21.8       16.9      16.6
Current account balance/GDP                  -2.9     -0.5       -4.1      -4.7      omestic
Interest paymentslGDP                         1.2      2.1        1.2       1.4                   .      -       Investment
Total debVGDP                                23.9     40.7       23.6      28.2     Savings
Total debt service/exports                   42.5     41.7       57.4      67.7
Present value of debt/GDP                       .        ..      22.5
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..    277.4
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  3.0      2.4      3,2        02        3.0         -     Brazil
GNP per cpRta                        0.5      0.5      1.9       -1.4       1.0               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       10.1      4.8      1.8        0.2       6.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                         12
Agriculture                                  14.7     10.0        8.1       8.6
Industry                                     38.6     45.9       35.2      37.5     s D                      \ 
Manufacturing                              29.3      32.0      22.8      24.3      4
Services                                     46.7     44.1       56.7      53.9               -
Private consumption                          69.2     62.3       63.2      68.5    -4
General govemment consumption                 9.4     12.2       18.1      12.7               -001           O-GDP
Imports of goods and services                 7.9      6.2       10.2       9.2
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports 1%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   3.5      2.5        1.9       0.5    40
Industry                                      2.7      1.8        5.5       0.5
Manufacturing                               2.3       0.7       3.8       0.5    20
Services                                      3.2      2.6        3.5       1.2
Private consumpton                            3.6      5.3        2.4      -3.4     o                       96   97   98
General govemment consumption                 4.0     -1.5        8.0       2.1
Gross domestic investment                    -1.3      2.1        6.2       0.1    20
Imports of goods and services                -2.6     13.4       13.9       8.9             -Exports    --Imporls
Gross national product                        2.7      2.0        3.3       0.0
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
71



Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997      1998      Inlto{i
Domestic prices                                                                     Inflation I%)
(% change)                                                                          3,000 T
Consumer prices                                 ..   228.3        6.9       2.7     2,000.
Implicit GDP deflator                         46.2   204.1        7.8       0.0     1,000
Government finance                                                                     o
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                           93   94   95   96   97   98
Current revenue                                        10.4      18.6      21.2    -1,W0-
Current budget balance                                 -1.4      -1.8      -4.86               GDP deflator    O  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -2.8       -2.7      -5.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1977     1987       1997     1998    [Exportand importlevels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..  26,225    52,990    47,176      80,000
Coffee                                        ..   2,185      3,094     2,505
Soybeans                                       ..   2,325      5,729    4,580     60.000
Manufactures                                       14,331    32,736    27 601
Total imports (cif)                             ..  15,053    61,354    53,012        ,
Food                                                  500  3,290  2,961  20000hXll11,99
Fuel and energy                                     4,674     3,220     3,903
Capital goods                                       3,958    26,232    25,262        o_
92  93  94  95  9S  97  98
Export price index (1995=100)                           78         96        92
Import price index (1995=100)                           81         95        84              U Exports     U imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                               97        101       108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$  1977i1987i199n                   Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(USS millions)197                                     18         197       98        urn
Exports of goods and services               13,003   28,073    56,831    55,479     2 T
Imports of goods and services               14,646   17,749    74,147    70,517
Resource balance                            -1,643   10,324   -17,316   -15,038  °'
Netincome                                   -3,469  -11,699   -18,331   -21,794     '        9    94
Net current transfers                           4       -43     2,216     1,886    :-2
Current account balance                     -5,108   -1,418   -33,430   -34,946     4
Financing items (net)                        5,629     363    25,629    26,455
Changes in net reserves                      -521    1,055      7,801     8,491
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       7,256    6,420    51,729    43,366
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)          5.14E-12  1.43E-8       1.1       1.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        42,037  119,820   193,663  212,069                      A: 6,2995
IBRD                                       1,371    9,384     5,743     6,298
IDA                                           0        0          0         0          G 49,22                 :,264
Total debt service                           5,737   11,956    38,091    44,049                                     C E: 12,644
IBRD                                        204    1,555      1,428     1,373
IDA                                           0        0          0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               5       35         63        80
Official creditors                          415       10    -1,820    -2,571
Private creddtors                         5,708     -690    19,890   -26,999
Foreign direct investment                  1,833    1,225    19,652    23,737
Portfolio equity                              0       78      5,300    -1,852                              F: 133,324
World Bank program
Commitments                                 319    1,394      1,104     1,291     A -IBRD                      E- Bilateral
Disbursements                               299      915      1,416     1,240     B-IDA    0 - Other muntilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                        101      867      1,049      995      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                   198       48        368      245
Interest payments                           104      688        380      378
Nettransfers                                 95    -641         -12     -133
Development Economics                                                                                                  9/9/99
72



Annex 11
BRAZIL: BAHIA EDUCATION PROGRAM
Social and Beneficiary Assessment
Bahia is home to some 4 million people living below the poverty line, more than any other state in
Brazil. This widespread poverty directly affects the possibilities for educational success of children
and adolescents: nearly 15 percent of 7-14 year olds and 50 percent of 15-19 year olds must work to
help support their families. Repetition and dropout rates at both fundamental and secondary levels are
some of the highest in Brazil, reflecting a mixture of social and economic demographics as well as a
history of under-investment in education for the poor.
The development objective of the Bahia Education Program is to improve fundamental and
secondary school outcomes, as measured by improvements in dropout and promotion rates and
student performance on standardized tests; and increase access to secondary school, as measured by
an increase in secondary enrollments. Designed to complement existing and planned federal projects,
the Bahia Education Program is framed within the new realities created by the implementation of the
FUNDEF, the priority given to strengthening educational management, and the municipalization of
fundamental cycle schools in Bahia.
The program design incorporates findings from beneficiary assessments conducted as part of the
ground-breaking "A Call to Action." Undertaken as part of combined effort by MEC, the World
Bank and UNICEF, the study was designed to increase the understanding of the causes of low
achievement and high repetition rates of children in primary schools in the Northeast of Brazil. The
following presents an overview of these studies, as well as a summary of their findings and
implications for the Bahia Education Program.
Overview of Studies
Studies reviewed for the purpose of this Social and Beneficiary Assessment primarily include
"EducaVJo, Escola e Comunidade: Estudo Piloto no Estado da Bahia" (Portela and Bastos, 1997)
and "O (Des)Conhecido Universo da Sala de Aula: Um Estudo de ObservaV4o de Sala de Aula no
Estado da Bahia"(Portela and Bastos, 1998) (additional background studies can be found in the
Annex 8). These studies include more than 300 interviews conducted in nine Bahian municipalities.
Adult community members and leaders, youths, and school principals and teachers associated with
twenty-three state and municipal schools of high and low performance participated in the background
studies. Adult community members interviewed are of primarily black or of mixed origin, have not
completed ensino,fundamental, and earn from 3 to 5 minimum salaries per month. This level of
poverty is consistent with the total number of residents in the home (more than half reside in homes
with 6 to 8 residents) as well as the occupation of these individuals, typically high in labor and low in
pay. Youth and students included both successful and poor students, as well as drop outs, primarily
between the ages of I 1 to 15. Teachers and principals (all female) were by contrast mostly white and
had completed upper secondary education.
The methodology used followed the guidelines proposed by the World Bank for Beneficiary
Assessments, that is semi-structured interviews with a variety of stakeholders to assess their
perceptions of a project or policy (Salmen, L., "Beneficiary Assessment: An Approach Described."
The World Bank, Social Assessment Series. July 2, 1995). Interviews were conducted by education
researchers and assistants, and included the following topics:
73



* Personal, family, and social information;
* Perceptions of the school, including school quality and operation;
* Relationship of school to community and family; and
* Barriers to learning/the schooling process.
Findings
The Value of Schooling
The value of schooling as perceived by the adults of the community is idealized and extensive.
Adults interviewed credited education with the source of a future, learning in general and as the
exclusive source of learning in the areas of reading, writing and arithmetic.  Parallel to this
description, the majority of those interviewed indicated that the school has a role in social formation,
including good manners, behavior and respect for elders. By contrast, student perceptions focused on
employment and interactions with peers. Those youth that had left school stated that they were forced
to leave in search of employment to help support their families. None of the youth stated that they
wanted to drop out. Teachers, like parents, believe in the formative nature of schooling as well as the
understanding that the role of schools has expanded in the last few decades.
School Quality
For community members, a quality school should, above all, have quality teachers. Schools should
also be close to home, well organized, equipped, and function properly. As in other studies,
however, the majority of those interviewed did not indicate problems with their school, but of
education in general. Parents also indicated low teacher salaries as a factor of teacher performance
and therefore school quality. These adults squarely place the responsibility for assuring school
quality with the government, and only sometimes include the community as part of a cooperative
effort with the state. Students emphasized order and cleanliness as a primary factor of school quality,
and complained of "bagun,eiros": (delinquents or unruly students). In general students refer to their
teachers with affection, and appreciate their patience. Teachers emphasized that poor quality schools
often have poor quality teachers, especially in rural areas. Relevant curriculum, attention to the
needs of its clientele, and student social formation, in addition to transmission of formal knowledge
are all characteristics of a quality school, according to these teachers.
Barriers to Learning
For adults, school failure is the result of poor living conditions rather than school conditions (70
percent of respondents). That is, poverty, according to community members interviewed, forces
parents to take their children out of school. There is little mention of pedagogic or intra-school
differences and an almost complete lack of knowledge of what goes on in schools, due to the lack of
communication between schools and parents. Youth and students primarily indicated lack of interest,
intelligence or responsibility as the primary source of student failure demonstrating yet again, the low
self esteem of drop-outs. Teachers, by contrast have a much broader vision of barriers to schooling.
They indicated that poor living conditions have a number of associated problems including
malnutrition, frequent migration, emotional and psychological difficulties, and child-labor. While
recognizing that part of the onus of responsibility lies with schools to overcome, look past (as in the
case of the lack of uniforms), or at times compensate for these conditions, teachers also blame
parents for not assisting with homework. There is contradiction here: while teachers are aware of the
high levels of poverty and low educational attainment of their clientele, they have not developed new
forms of measuring student work that take into account the limitations of parents and families.
74



Blame for the failure of schools to achieve the lofty goals expected by both parents and teachers is
attributed to school quality (by the teachers) and parent and student failure (by the parents and
students themselves). This is in contrast to previous studies, in which teachers blamed parents and
the students themselves for student failure. Recommendations for overcoming barriers to learning, on
the part of both teachers and parents, focus on school inputs, rather than instructional changes.
Furthermore, while teachers are quick to recognize their need for additional training and professional
development, they do not cite their pedagogical practice as a barrier to learning.
School-Community Relationship
In conversations with adults from the community about the relationship of the school to the
community, two perspectives arose: one indicating how families can help the school, another
indicating the type of assistance schools have solicited from families, both limited and very
functional in scope. Most schools only request parental assistance in terms of material necessities or
services, including cleaning and school-nutrition programs. Parents suggested that schools organize
community participation days, but again emphasized physical labor rather than involvement in
lessons, or classroom assistance. Students and youth emphasized the relationship to their peers
during recreational periods, and rarely discussed classroom activities or learning. Teachers and
school officials stated that the community had a particularly strong relationship to the school, that
they were "always invited" to school meetings, held bi-monthly. Further probing revealed that
perceptions of potential parental involvement is limited to physical labor. Based on these conflicting
reports, school professionals have a very different view of a strong school-community relationship
than researchers.
School Operation as viewed by Education Professionals
School principals submit annual reports to education secretariats, while pedagogical issues typically
fall to a school supervisor or pedagogical coordinator. School management is the responsibility of
the school principal, who often complained of lack of autonomy, inputs and human resources.
Teachers, in contrast to student statements regarding frequent lack of discipline did not complain of
student behavior. Difficulties discussed by teachers included: lack of didactic and reference
materials, libraries, equipment and teacher training courses; large classroom size, diversified
classroom populations, and inappropriate materials. Teachers recognize their ability to improve their
practice, and hope to do so through in-service programs.
Policy Recommendations
Together these studies present a rich view of schooling in Bahia. The following conclusions and
policy recommendations stem from the studies described here:
*  Strengthening and deepening of School-community relationships
*  Implementation of new forms of student evaluation that account for the difficulties of completing
homework (given poor living conditions)
* Promotion of student-student interaction, whether through learning or recreational activities
*  Evaluation and Expansion of in-service training for school professionals
*  Controlled school enrollment procedures to assure students school places close to home
*  Quality and regular school nutrition programs
*  On-time and free distribution of school materials
*  Rehabilitation of schools and libraries
*  Increased financial and managerial autonomy for schools
*  Improved salary conditions for teachers
75



Implications for the Program
Among the most positive of perspectives for the program is the widespread belief in the value of
education, and a general belief among most stakeholders that the quality of primary education needs
to be, and can be, improved. Had studies shown a massive disaffection with education generally or
complacency with the status quo, the program would have a much more difficult task. There is also a
fair degree of overlap in opinions regarding what needs to be changed. Better physical conditions for
schools, more and better material and equipment, a more relevant curriculum, and better qualified
teachers are mentioned again and again in interviews across a range of stakeholders. While the
program's analysis can (and does) extend beyond and elaborate within these categories, clearly
progress in these areas is necessary if beneficiaries and stakeholders are to "see" an improvement in
the quality of education.
The design of the Bahia Education Program takes these perspectives into account. Repair of school
buildings and equipping of classrooms are included in the program. From the perspective of the
education analyst, improving the framework for these inputs offers the best hope for addressing the
root causes of poor physical and material conditions in schools, over the long term. Hence, the
program incorporates financing for school improvements within a comprehensive strategy that
acknowledges its role as an important incentive for stakeholder participation. The Program will
(through the financing of school improvement projects) support school staff in defining their own
training needs. Experience with school improvement projects under FUNDESCOLA I indicates that
teacher training is one of the main areas of investment. This corresponds with study findings that
teachers themselves do not feel that they have sufficient training.
Attitudes and perspectives that represent a challenge for the program include: (I) the sense of
disconnection and lack of shared perspectives between schools and their communities; (2) the lack of
a common view among teachers and principals that student learning is their main priority (and the
lack of connection between student learning and "quality" among most stakeholders); (3) teacher
misconceptions about repetition and literacy teaching; (4) lack of clarity about the role of the school;
(5) the personalization of school failure; and (6) a fairly widespread "disempowerment" syndrome,
whereby everyone complains about the system, but few (be they parents or municipal secretaries of
education) squarely assume the responsibility for change.
The Bahia Education Program's main mechanism for working at the level of the school and
community (where many of these attitudes prevail) is the school development plan, a process which
explicitly requires an high level of involvement on the part of students, parents, and the community.
Conceived as a joint school-community exercise, the school development plan is also the most likely
entry point to begin to address some of the issues outlined above. Schools will be assisted in the
development of plans by school development teams, made up of municipal and state education staff;
these staff, in turn, will receive training that will include exposure to some of these attitudes and
guidelines for facilitation that will help schools and communities to begin to question them. As a
concrete incentive for schools to participate in the school development process, the Bahia Education
Program includes financing for school improvement projects developed as part of the overall school
plan.
Finally, it will be important for monitoring and evaluation to include the gathering and dissemination
of additional information on stakeholder perspectives. Ultimately, it is important not only to assess
76



whether educational outcomes have improved by quantitative measures, but whether those involved
believe that things have improved, for the answer to that question will drive the politics of education.
77



Annex 12
BRAZIL: BAHIA EDUCATION PROGRAM
Poverty Analysis
Bahia and the Northeast: Characterizing Poverty
The Northeast region of Brazil has long been characterized as one with high levels of poverty, low
levels of education, and extreme income and human development inequalities. More than half of all
poor Brazilians live in the Northeast, where extreme poverty is three to four times higher than in the
South and Southeast. Education participation rates demonstrate wide gaps in access to education.
Gross and net enrollment rates for both fundamental cycle and secondary education are presented in
Table 12.1. The greatest differences lie in access to secondary education: net enrollment rates in Sao
Paulo are 3.5 times that of Bahia.
Table 12.1 - Re ional Differences: Gross and Net Enrollment Rates, 1998 %
Souce MCNEP/qw_0 ,,0SEC', 19996> }0-  
Bahia     __L         161.4        _     91.9              45.2                 12.3
Nlortheast            147.4              90.0              46.0                 14.5
SAO Paulo              126.5             98.2              95.3                 51.9
::Southeaist           134.5             97.4              84.5         -42.5
Brazil        X       128.               95.3              68.1                 30.8
Source: MEC/INEP/SEC, 19Y99
Rural and urban differences are also extreme. Despite the fact that absolute number of poor may be
higher in urban areas in Brazil, the depth (poverty gap) and the severity (squared poverty gap) of
poverty tend to be higher in rural areas even in absolute numbers. By some measurements, the
proportion of poor in rural areas is three to four times that of urban areas. Access to education, and
therefore social and economic opportunities in rural areas is limited. Rural enrollments as a share of
total enrollments drop off dramatically ascending through education cycles. It is clear that this trend
is due to a combination of factors, including higher dropout and repetition rates in rural areas, and
localized problems of physical access to grades 5-8. A common pattern for the few rural students that
do finish grades 5-8 is to migrate to urban areas either to work or continue their education. Access to
secondary education, is also unequal: some 23 municipalities in outlying areas of Bahia (5.5 percent)
do not offer, or offer only one or two grades of secondary education.
Figure 12.1: Rural Enrollmentasa PercentofTotal
Enrollment, Brazil 1997
! 30 T-- - 25.9
25
20
% 15                            52                  1
5
0
Grade 1-4          Grade 5-          Grade 9-11
Source MEC/INEP/EEC,1998
78



In a country where the richest quintile has an income 26 times greater than that of the poorest,
equality of opportunity is crucial. Education has a demonstrated impact towards reducing poverty
and narrowing the income gap. A recent study by IBGE attributed 75 percent of the explanation for
mobility among socio-economic classes to education. The higher the education of the household
head, the lower the probability of being extremely poor. Educational opportunities, as measured by
educational attainment vary greatly by social class. From the graph below, we can infer that the poor
in Brazil repeat more and dropout more than the rich (they do not reach 5th or 8th grade, despite
virtually universal access to these levels). Thus, we can draw the conclusion that the quality and
internal efficiency problems that are behind high repetition and low completion in the first eight
grades have direct equity implications by limiting access to the upper grades, particularly for the
poor.
Figure 12.2: Differences in Educational
Attainment by Income Decile
100%
C   80%            -
0   20%
0% -
1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10
.0-4 grades z 5-8 grades a 9 or more_grades|
Source: IPEA 1999
Poverty disproportionately affects the young. Labor participation of 10-14 year olds in Brazil is at
least twice as high as any other Latin American country. These high participation rates directly affect
educational opportunities (upwards of 30 percent of Bahian 5-8 graders work and attend school,
while the same applies to nearly 60 percent of students enrolled in secondary). The following table
highlights the difference of educational attainment and participation between the richest and poorest
income quintiles in Bahia. Despite the characterization of grades 1-8 as universal and compulsory,
youth that are out of school are typically participating in the labor market.
Table 12.2 - Bahia: Educational Indicators by Poorest and Richest Income Quintiles
Agte 74out orl                                 18.9            8.6            14.1
S19 bit ---                               54.3            28.6           42.8
Age 1-1 fkt9       adoto io                52.9           23.9            40.6
Age 1S-19 wuft     r grsdii                   93.1            69.7            85.6
Sour'ce. PND 1995
79



Targeting Poverty in Bahia
In 1998, the Bahia Department of Economic and Social Studies (SEI) developed a municipal
classification system similar to that of the UN Human Development Index. Indices for economic and
social development were given equal weight. The Economic Development Index (IDE) was
compiled from service, infrastructure and income data, including: the number of telephones,
businesses and services, and banks per resident, energy consumption per 100 residents, education
participation rates in each sub-sector (primary, secondary, and higher), and the aggregate value of
agriculture, industrial, services and public administration sectors.
The Social Development Index (IDS) was designed to classify municipalities according to their level
of social development, based on indicators of the quality of life of the population, including health,
education, basic services and income. Indicators included: number of illnesses (both treatable with
good hygiene and through immunization), education participation rates in each sub-sector (primary,
secondary, and higher), residential energy consumption, treated water, and average salary of heads of
households.  (Note that education participation rates are used for both the IDE and IDS,
demonstrating the importance attributed to education by the Bahia government).
Figure 12.3 Bahia: 100 Poorest Municipalities
<II ~   # /    ;j                I  X
.{ ,
+
Source: SEI, 1999
With equal weight given to both the IDE and IDS, Bahia compiled the IGDS (Indice Geral de
Desenvolvimento Socioeconomico), ranking all 415 Bahian municipalities according to their IGDS
index. The map above shows the location of the poorest 100 municipalities, distributed across nearly
all 15 of the economic regions of Bahia, with the exception of the capital of Salvador. These
municipalities represent 11 percent of the population of Bahia and 20 percent of the geographic area.
Targeted municipalities account for more than 20 percent of the rural population of the state, and
80



only 4 percent of the urban population. More than 80 percent of these municipalities are found in the
semi-arid zone, subject to frequent drought and characterized by poor agriculture. In addition, nearly
half of the municipalities were created between 1985-89 as at that time, each new municipality
received a fund for its development from the federal government, encouraging the rampant creation
of new political divisions with limited economic bases. Additional  characteristics of these
municipalities are presented in Table 12.3, below.
Table 12.3 - Characteristics of Bahian Municipalities
too Pooret             1,342,072           217,681         282,980            74
Remaining 315          11,199,673        1,645,080       2,230,957            33
Total in Bahla         12,541,745        1,S62,761       2,513,937            38
Source: SEI 1999
Bahia Efforts in Poverty Reduction
Within the first month of taking power in 1999, the State Government of Bahia launched the
Programa de Valorizaqdo dos Municipios de Menor Desenvolvimento, now entitled Faz Cidaddo!.
The objective of the program is to improve the living conditions and create additional income
opportunities for the least developed municipalities in Bahia, creating self-sustainable communities
by means of local development. The program further aims to increase the well-being of the citizens
of the selected municipalities through the improvement in social services, especially in the areas of
education, health, public safety, employment, infrastructure, and agriculture.
Based on the IGDS, the Bahian government has proposed a comprehensive social development
program within this targeted area. Activities in a broad variety of social sectors, including health,
public safety, labor, infrastructure, agriculture and education will be established with the goal of
raising the living conditions of the population. Program components run the gamut in social sector
interventions, including: establishing health centers and police forces in each municipality,
improving sanitary conditions, training community members in health care, providing education for
employment in accordance with local needs, implementing land reform and technical assistance, and
improving basic infrastructure such as construction of roads, water and electricity.
The education program outlined in Faz Cidaddo! is divided in two parts, a program for basic
education, and one in teacher training and upgrading, and includes the following key areas of reform:
*  Expand access to ensino fundamental in accordance with the school-age population;
*  Conduct a massive enrollment campaign;
*  Guarantee assistance to students, including school transport, school-feeding programs, and
textbooks;
*  Institute a bolsa-escola program, with the assistance of the federal government;
*  Eliminate child labor and reduce drop-out and repetition rates; and
*  Reduce illiteracy, expanding program to children, youth and adults.
Under the teacher development program, Bahia plans to:
* Train and certify teachers, by way of state university programs
* Develop specific programs for lay teachers working in the municipal systems
81



* Prepare teachers to adjust their pedagogical practice to the socio-economic, political and cultural
reality of the student population, preparing children for the labor market and helping them to
exercise their citizenship.
Implications for the Bahia Education Program
The Bahia Faz Cidad&o! represents a unique opportunity for the Bank-financed Bahia Education
Program. Ownership and sustainability for a poverty-targeted intervention are clear, as the program
is the centerpiece of the government program. As they are couched within a greater government
program designed to raise the human, social, and economic capital of the 100 poorest municipalities
within the states, the interventions associated with the Bahia Education Program will be implemented
in a unique policy environment. From a research standpoint, it will be interesting to see how these
targeted investments in a broad range of social sectors can impact educational achievement and
social mobility.
As a targeted poverty intervention, the Bahia Education Program will attend to nearly 500,000
fundamental students in 100 poorest municipalities, through the minimum standards and PDE sub-
components. Accelerated classes will also provide students with high levels of repetition and
dropout with a clear method for tracking back into the system. In secondary education, expansion of
access to those areas that do not offer secondary education will also increase equity of opportunity
for the poor. It is expected that through these efforts additional opportunities will be created for
some of Bahia's most marginalized populations.
82



Annex 13
BRAZIL: BAHIA EDUCATION PROGRAM
Institutional Analysis
If Bahia is provide its children with an education of national and international standards, it will have
to address fundamental institutional weaknesses which negatively impact the quality and efficiency
of public education. This annex seeks to outline the central institutional issues which currently
impede improvement, and map out strategic actions envisioned by the Government of Bahia and the
Bahia Education Project which will begin to address these concerns.
Current Institutional Challenges in Bahia's Education System
Centralized decision-making and service delivery in the state system
In the state education system, both policy related and procedural decisions are concentrated at the
central secretariat in Salvador. This has engendered a system where school and regional officials
must petition central administrators for almost any matter related to daily schools operations (e.g.
maintenance, supplies, teacher placement and pay etc.). Such an arrangement creates serious
inefficiencies given both the size of the state and the weak capacity of SEC to execute routine
procedures quickly and respond to diverse local needs.
Previous attempts to decentralize SEC - most notably the creation of 30 district-level offices
throughout the country - have had a limited impact. This is largely due to the minimal degree of
authority delegated to regional officials, thus most decisions are deferred to the central level.
Central and regional SEC personnel also have few professional incentives and resources to engage in
on-site consultation with regional and school officials.
This highly centralized delegation of authority entails that the perspective and needs of individual
schools tend to be overlooked. Teacher training programs are most often supply driven, school
supplies or minor repairs are long in coming. State schools are provided with few resources of their
own or training to develop greater autonomy within this environment.
Low organizational capacity in the municipal system
The municipal education system, which incorporates the majority of primary school students, suffers
from low organizational capacity to manage nearby schools. While municipal managers benefit from
proximity, they frequently lack the skills and resources to support principals and teachers. This
reality is a by-product of both the low overall fiscal capacity of most municipalities and the tendency
of local governments to under-invest in school resources and adequate support services. This carries
a particularly high price in many of Bahia's rural municipalities where schools tend to be more
isolated, deliver lower quality, and receive minimal support from their respective municipal
education secretariats.  The recent arrival of FUNDEF may improve the fiscal capacity of
municipalities to make necessary investments. Nonetheless, it remains to be seen how effectively
municipalities will be able to manage additional funds.
Poor coordination between municipal and state education systems
As outlined above, both state and municipal education systems face their own capacity challenges,
yet their response has been further limited by the lack of coordination and operational alignment
between the state and municipal systems as well as across the municipal systems themselves. This
has led to hundreds of education systems functioning largely in parallel with only occasional contact
83



at the policy level. Operational coordination is minimal, with teacher training a rare exception. This
arrangement has obstructed potential economies of scale and led to significant inequalities in the
standard of service delivered between nearby municipalities or even adjacent schools.
Pervasive politics in personnel decisions
Key management positions in both the municipal and state systems tend to be allocated according to
political patronage more so than professional qualifications. In Bahia, school heads are most often
appointed by the local mayor or legislative representative, with no transparent criteria or certification
process.  Similarly, DIREC  officials and pedagogical coordinators, who serve as frontline
pedagogical support for teachers in each municipality, are also selected by local politicians rather
than their professional peers. This practice has resulted in high rates of turnover among education
managers throughout the system, particularly following election cycles. The politicization of the
sector also undercuts the long-term commitment and professionalism of teachers and administrators
since advancement and recognition are only weakly linked to merit and performance in improving
student achievement. This serves as a major disincentive for teachers to seek additional training and
management responsibilities.
Weak accountability for quality
Quality assurance mechanisms in the State remain weak. Although SEC has developed curricular
standards in line with national guidelines, there is currently no system of assessing student
achievement at the school level. SEC currently relies upon bi-annual SAEB results which are highly
reliable and informative, but are sample-based and aggregated at the state level. Consequently,
education managers have no objective measure of individual school performance. In addition, the
current system of school inspection is almost entirely focused on issues of discipline, personnel
issues and school environment and therefore provides no insight into the quality of teaching and
learning at the school level. In sum, the ability of education managers, teachers and parents to
objectively gauge the quality of schooling and target appropriate interventions is impaired.
As discussed above, the demand for greater quality assurance has traditionally been weak due to the
extensive patronage within the system. This could potentially be counterbalanced by community
demands for higher quality education services. However, local politics in Bahia tend to be an elite
arena, a pattern mirrored at the school level where the business of running schools is left to education
personnel. Specific explanations for why community participation in school life in Bahia is weak are
complex and not fully understood. Low parental education, an absence of information, limited school
choice, and the reluctance of educators to consult with the community the which they serve are all
likely to be among the explanatory factors. What is clear is that as a result, local pressure on local
school officials and politicians for improving school quality is currently marginal.
Redressing Institutional Problems: The SEC response
The current political leadership in Bahia has recognized that in order to fulfill its vision of economic
development in the state, the quality of public education must be improved. While the current state
strategy for education addresses the need for greater investment in key educational inputs - e.g.
teacher training, improved physical facilities - it also acknowledges that fundamental institutional
constraints must be addressed if improvement is to be sustained.
The most critical institutional change has been the shift of SECs mission from acting as administrator
of its own system of schools to that of becoming the central guardian of educational quality across
the entire public education system. This transition will be difficult for it requires a significant
84



reorientation of skills and performance incentives. Nonetheless, SEC is taking some important
operational steps in this direction.
First, SEC intends to raise the organizational capacity and institutional autonomy of schools and
DIRECs. This will be carried out through three channels: (1) greater transfer of discretionary and
earmarked resources to be managed local mangers (2) staff development to improve strategic
planning and use of transferred resources (3) stronger monitoring and accountability for results.
These efforts are seen as necessary pre-requisites to further decentralization of authority and
resources.
A second aspect of SEC's strategy is an effort to raise the qualifications of education managers.
Qualification requirements, with correspondent training opportunities, are proposed for school
principals and possibly DIREC personnel. The government is also reviewing selection processes of
school principals in other states and is weighing them against current political realities. Whatever the
actual selection process - be it political or technical - it is hoped that certification will help ensure
that appointees are adequately qualified to fulfill their responsibilities.
Thirdly, SEC intends to improve accountability for educational quality through the improvement and
expansion of standardized assessment. The state assessment envisioned will be compatible the
national standardized assessment SAEB. It will go further, however, in that it will cover all state
schools and all municipal schools that agree to participate [Note: Legally, SEC cannot require
municipalities to participate. They must volunteer or be given incentives to do so]. This will provide
education consumers (i.e. parents and students), agents (teachers) and managers (school heads,
administrators) will school-level data on student achievement. The proposed assessment system will
enable a more precise picture of system quality and facilitate targeting of additional support to those
schools and students performing below standard (and learning from those who are exceeding
standard).
Fourth, over the past two years, SEC has made a concerted effort to improve dialogue and
coordination with municipal governments and education secretariats.  The principal focus of
coordination has been the transfer of state primary schools to municipal administration. It is
envisioned that this initiative - known as Inter-Redes - will be expanded and formalized to include
other issues of mutual concern such as teacher placement, joint training initiatives and regional
education planning. These ideas are already being put into practice on a pilot basis through the
FUNDESCOLA Project.
Finally, it is important to note that the state government has committed itself to focussing additional
resources and support toward the poorest regions of the state. This will take the form of targeted
interventions in education and other social sectors in the poorest 100 municipalities in the country.
From an institutional perspective, this is an important initiative since the majority of targeted
municipalities are rural, historically detached from the work of SEC, and have the weakest local
education institutions.
Project Support for Institutional Reform
Among the array of activities supported by the Bahia Education Project, several directly address the
institutional issues and proposed interventions outlined above.
The project seeks to support greater institutional capacity and autonomy at the school and district
levels through the PDE and PDD initiatives. These interventions will work with schools and district
85



offices to develop proposals for improvement relevant to their specific organizational needs and
contextual realities. These demand-driven proposals will be accompanied by resources which the
school or district will be expected (and trained) to manage on their own. Finally, at both levels,
managers will be held accountable for results, which in the case of the district will be formalized in a
performance contract.
Second, the project will improve the qualifications and skills of school managers through the
development and introduction of standard certification for school principals, vice-principals and
secretaries. Training opportunities to achieve certification will be extended to current and future
school management teams.
Third, the challenge of extending standardized assessment will be addressed by the project.
Beginning in 2001, Bahia will build upon the SAEB format to assess student achievement in every
state school. In addition, all municipal schools in the targeted 100 poorest municipalities will also be
assessed. Any other municipality beyond the poverty target group which wishes to participate may
also do so.
Finally, project management itself is being designed to increase capacity development within SEC
itself. Rather than a traditional project implementation unit, which can foster internal "brain drain"
and poor articulation between project and routine activities, the government has proposed a project
management structure which is embedded within current organizational units. As outlined in the
diagram on page 40, project activity managers will be attached to the secretariat unit which will
assume full responsibility for implementation beyond the duration of the project itself. This structure
is expected to foster greater ownership of project activities among the line units and increase the
likelihood of skill transference to peers as project managers undergo training.
86



Annex 14
BRAZIL: BAHIA EDUCATION PROGRAM
Municipalities Participating in the Faz Cidadlo! Program
42. Ibiassuce                 85. Ribeirao do Logo
1. Abaira                     43. Ibiquera                   86. Rio do Ant6nio
2. Almadina                   44. Ibitiara                   87. Santa Brigida
3. Anagi                      45. Igrapiuna                  88. Santan6polis
4. Andaraf                    46. Irajuba                    89. Sao Fe1ix do Coribe
5. Andorinha                  47. Itaguagu da Bahia          90. Sao Jose da Vit6ria
6. Anguera                    48. Itatim                     91. Sao Jos6 do Jacuipe
7. Ant6nio Cardoso            49. Jaborandi                  92. Sao Miguel das Matas
8. Apuarema                   50. Jucurucu                   93. Saude
9. Aragas                     51. Jussiape                   94. Sftio do Mato
10. Aracatu                   52. Lafayete Coutinho          95. Sitio do Quinto
11. Aratuipe                  53. Lagoa Real                 96. Souto Soares
12. Banza8                    54. Lajedo do Tobocal          97. Tremedal
13. Belo Campo                55. LamarAo                    98. Umburanas
14. Bom Jesus da Serra        56. Macurure                   99. Varzedo
15. Boninal                   57. Maetinga                   100. Vereda
16. Bonito                    58. Malhada de Pedras
17. Botuporl                  59. Marcionilio Souza
18. Brotas de Macaubas        60. Matina
19. Buritirama                61. Mirangaba
20. Caatiba                   62. Mirante
21. Cabaceiras do             63. Morpara
Paragua9u                  64. Mulungu do Morro
22. Caem                      65. Muquem do S.
23. Caetanos                      Francisco
24. Caldeirlo Grande          66. Nordestina
25. Campo Alegre de           67. Nova Ibia
Lourdes                    68. Nova Reden9ao
26. Candeal                   69. Novo Horizonte
27. Caraibas                  70. Novo Triunfo
28. Catolandia                71. Oliveira dos Brejinhos
29. Caturama                  72. OurolIndia
30. Chorroch6                 73. Pedro Alexandre
31. Cordeiros                 74. Piatl
32. Coronel Joao Si           75. Pilao Arcado
33. Cravolandia               76. Pindobacu
34. Dario Meira               77. Piraf do Norte
35. Fatima                    78. Pirip4
36. Feira da Mata             79. Ponto Novo
37. Filadefia                 80. Pres. Janio Quadros
38. Gavilo                    81. Pres. Tancredo Neves
39. Gentio do Ouro            82. Qfiijingue
40. Guajeru                   83. Quixabeira
41. Heli6polis                84. Ribeira do Amparo
87






MAP SECTION






IBRD 30898
46'                              44'                                42'                               40A                               3         ID
<ye              re  ^  ~~P E R N A M B U C O
<   P I A U               ,/, --                                                                                    A  K ALAGOAS
o- B R A  Z I L                                                                                                                      b -  A'  ;   $obradipho
BAHIA                                                           'r>                        _                                                           Soohordooonhos
-    ('  \~~  0<          HXirque                                   r    t           (/    T"<ng: i  's  SERGIPEg
a      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                           C           V6roeodoPoEo
MAIN ROADS                                      I
12S     STATE CAPITAL                               g               _                                                          TIocptoro    9 
STATE BOUNDARIES
(:)                                                      L.P                                              M-62g n o n $ X ~ 3 s    rn  
I                     B~~~~~~~" M-~       
To~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ol Normli  r                 REch , ~                       Esti
r14'                                                                         0 
VENEZLE.A1 JOSNf-1Fk%                                                                     ,                              .-r.,5OIrod CousoNo
7 VENEZUELA                                                         \           T r                                                     ' .   " .   .   :w ~)g    Treoiedol/   , 0    CootA 
COLOMBIA \             .4  P                            . t  r                                                                                                                                                               OCEAN
"kY    LI  ,5          >    _00,4"                                                                                                                                                                       ' :Jni5B
OA AZUCNAS         1A6A lO              EAdo53 sc      - _ 6'                                            M    I  N   A   S  G   E     R   A   I   S
5'0.                                                                                                   To T ^o=  <  *  *p  lso  1.  zoo  Ls4IT Tc6
PEZIRU404    .                                                               0       5,0    190    150    200                                                                       HSqo
%   BOLIVIA  .-,  /    Go0145      >;  ........................                                                                                                           .                    Mn         " KILOMETERS
.AR, EFNTIN  f            MINAS     ,
("'1( cg~ $ DL                        yonroT  ncdres nclos dcorhonr nodn on oA. srfor,noAo                                                                                  "It
:S /  ARGEsTiNA    't;zARANA                                       boLcdon -1s4                                                                         SANT
.. , ..... E L |URUGUOg                                                           46'                               44:'                               t2'                     SANTO   40'~~ A  4.. '  "
JULY 2000



