Report No. PID7142
Project Name                     Brazil-Bahia Education Program (APL)(@) ...
Projects I and II
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       BRPE59565
Borrower(s)                      State of Bahia
Implementing Agency              Bahia Education Secretariat
Bahia (Secretaria de Educaao da Bahia)
Contacts:        Eraldo Tinoco
Secretaria de Educaao da Bahia,
Salvador, Bahia, Brazil
Tel:   55-71-370-1215
Fax:   55-71-371-5635
Date PID Prepared                April 1, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 2000
Projected Board Date             June 2000
1. Objectives
The purpose of the Bahia Education Program is to
assist the Government of Bahia in its effort to
improve the educational system and respond to the
demands and needs of the Bahian population. The
program complements numerous Government actions and
focuses on improving fundamental and secondary school
quality, increasing access to secondary schools, and
improving system management. The program is to be
financed through a 4.5 year Adjustable Program Loan
(APL), with a first phase (Project I; 2.5 years) of
US$116 million and a second phase (Project II; 2
years) of US$100 million. Most activities to be
financed by Project II are a natural continuation of
those to be financed in Project I. The development
objectives of the Bahia Education Project are to: (a)
improve fundamental and secondary school outcomes, as
measured by improvements in dropout and promotion
rates and student performance on standardized tests;
and (b) increase access to secondary school, as
measured by an increase in secondary enrollments.
2. Description
The main sector issues to be addressed by the Bahia
Education Project include: (a) reducing repetition
and dropout through improvements in school quality;
(b) meeting the increased demand for secondary
education; (c) improving educational management; and



(d) targeting the poor.
Quality
Improvement in the quality and relevance of schooling
is essential for creating an environment for student
success. The Bahia Education Program embraces the
notion that school autonomy accompanied by strong
community involvement in schools is the best avenue to
improve school quality. As a result, secondary and
primary school quality will be addressed principally
through the promotion of a School Development Process
(PDE) and the financing of direct school grants to
increase autonomy and efficiency. This approach
addresses the repeated lack of relevance of centrally-
designed investments while making schools more
purposeful institutions. By means of direct school
grants, schools will be able to acquire inputs and
materials and enhance human resources. In addition,
the state will support investments in state and
municipal fundamental cycle schools in order to bring
them up to minimum operational standards in terms of
basic inputs and infrastructure: prerequisites for
children to have the opportunity to learn at school.
Finally, the program will support shorter-term efforts
to reduce age-grade distortion and dropout through
special "accelerated classes," designed to give
multiple repeaters the extra help needed to "catch
up" to their peers.
Access
Brazil recently implemented the FUNDEF, which
guarantees a minimum investment per fundamental cycle
student. One outcome of this policy is the shift of
significant resources from the state to the municipal
level, as more fundamental cycle schools fall under
municipal administration. Though this change will
strengthen chronically under-funded municipal
fundamental cycle schools, there is widespread concern
about funding secondary education. The Bahia
Education Program will contribute to address both the
growing demand for access to secondary school and the
currently unequal and inefficient distribution of the
supply of secondary school places. Three strategies
will be used: (a) a microplanning exercise, leading
to the reorganization of existing school places and a
more accurate determination of the need for additional
space; (b) expansion of existing schools and
classrooms; and (c) new school construction. It is
expected that expanding secondary access will increase
educational opportunities for poorer populations,
irrespective of their geographical location as: (a)
wealthier regions have more private schools, leaving
public school places to lower income groups; and (b)
- 2-



in poorer areas where there are no private schools,
school places tend to be occupied by higher income
groups.
Management
The most recent school effectiveness research suggests
that the educational environment has a significant
impact on student achievement. An effective
educational management system provides: (a) clear
standards for schools; (b) strong support systems that
assist schools in achieving these standards; (c)
consistent and objective assessment of schools; and
(d) consequences (good and bad) for schools which
achieve or fail to meet their targets. The Bahia
Education Program will promote effective management of
the school system with the aim of elevating overall
quality, equity, and efficiency. The key areas of
action envisioned are: (a) increased accountability
through the extension of a school-level student
assessment system; (b) improved mechanisms for
selection, recruitment, and training of education
managers at all levels; and (c) the implementation and
funding of a PDER (Regional Plan for Educational
Development) to be developed by each regional office
(DIREC), and funded by SEC through a Contract of
Outcomes. This last action should foster the
reorientation of the mission and capacity of DIREC as
the vehicle for the SEC to provide school-focused,
technical support-an essential accompaniment to
greater school autonomy
Poverty
Education investments in Bahia have consistently met
with difficulties in attending to the poor. This
program will help break this tradition of under-
investment in the poor by: (a) focusing significant
investments in the 100 poorest municipalities; (b)
special efforts towards incorporating evening and
traditionally marginalized students (again, largely
through the PDE process); and (c) investing in special
programs ("accelerated classes") for overage children
with a history of school failure, among whom poor
children are disproportionately represented.
(a) Improving School Quality
Secondary and primary school quality will be addressed
principally through the promotion of the school
development process (PDE) and the financing of direct
school grants to increase autonomy at the school
level. The project will contribute to improving the
quality of the learning process in school by
increasing school autonomy. By means of direct school
-3 -



grants, schools will be able to acquire inputs and
materials and enhance human resources. This
improvement in the quality of the schools is essential
for creating an environment for student success.
In addition, the state will ensure that all state
schools offering the fundamental cycle meet minimal
standards in terms of basic inputs, services, and
infrastructure - prerequisites for children to have
the opportunity to learn at school. These actions,
designed to accompany the municipalization process,
are geared towards preparing state schools to be
turned over to municipal secretaries. In this way,
municipalities will not receive "problem" schools,
but exemplary institutions with experience in
autonomous school management.
(b) Expanding School Access
Another issue to be addressed is the unequal
distribution of the supply of school places,
materials, and facilities. At the secondary level,
state schools will undergo micro-planning to determine
the most efficient allocation of school places, as
well as the need for additional school and classroom
construction. The rationalization of existing
secondary school spaces and the provision of new
classrooms, if necessary, through micro-planning, will
increase the supply of school places.
The Bahia municipalization policy is a key step in
effectively distributing the administrative
responsibilities of fundamental schooling. It is
expected that municipalization will promote the
redistribution of school places, thereby contributing
to meeting demand.
(c) Improving School and System Management
The BAHIA EDUCATION PROJECT will promote effective
management of the school and system with the aim of
elevating overall quality, equity, and efficiency. A
number of key areas of action are envisioned: 1)
increased accountability through the extension of a
school-based evaluation and assessment system; 2)
improved school and system management through the
training and support of education managers at all
levels; 3) development of strategies to upgrade
teacher practice; and 4) reorientation of the mission
and capacity of SEC toward school-focused, technical
support.
(d) Targeting Poverty
Education projects in Bahia have consistently met with
- 4 -



difficulties in attending to the poor with respect to
both access and quality. School construction and other
investments in education are focused in the capital
and coastal areas due to a higher concentration of
beneficiaries, as well as a greater probability for
project completion given existing infrastructure. This
project will help break this tradition of under-
investment in the poor in the following ways: 1) by
expanding access in secondary education with special
efforts for incorporating evening and traditionally
marginalized students; 2) by investing in state
fundamental cycle schools located in poor microregions
of the state, and 3) through strengthening of
municipal systems throughout the state, which enroll
nearly all of the Bahia's poor (51.4 percent of
municipal students are of the lowest consumption
quintile).
3. Project Costs and Financing
The total 4.5 year Program is expected to cost US$216
million, of which US$129.6 million is IBRD loan.
Current estimates place total Project I costs at
US$116 million to be implemented over a period of 2.5
years. An IBRD Loan would finance US$69.6 million,
while the remaining US$46.4 million would be provided
by the Borrower. Following achievement of project
triggers, Project II costs of US$100 million (US$60
million loan) would finance activities over a 2 year
period.
4. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Alberto Rodriguez
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-7821
Fax:        (202) 614-0905
Note: This is information on an involving project.
Certain components may not be necessarily included in
the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 7, 2000.
- 5 -



