                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 27018

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (CPL-45920)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$69.6 MILLION

                                 TO THE STATE OF BAHIA

           WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                              FOR THE FIRST PHASE OF THE

                               BAHIA EDUCATION PROJECT




                                      December 5, 2003




Human Development Management Unit
Country Management Unit for Brazil
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective August 2003)

                                 Currency Unit = Real
                                        R$1.00 = US$ 0.35
                                      US$ 1.00 = R$2.85

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1   December 31


                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL                Adaptable Program Loan
COPE               Program Coordination Unit
DIREC              Regional Education Offices (Diretoria Regional de Educação)
Educar Para Vencer Education program of the Government of Bahia
Escola Jovem       IDB's Secondary Education Improvement and Expansion Project (
                   Programa de Melhoria e Expansão do Ensino Médio)
Faz Cidadão!       Government of Bahia Program (involving education, health, and
                   infrastructure) to reduce poverty in the state's 100 poorest municipalities
FLEM               Organization charged with implementing the certification and training of
                   school professionals (Fundação Luís Eduardo Magalhães)
FUNDEF             Fund for the Development and Maintenance of Basic Education and
                   Teacher Valorization (Fundo de Desenvolvimento e Manutenção do
                   Ensino Fundamental e Valorização do Magistério)
FUNDESCOLA         School Improvement Project (Programa Fundo de Fortalecimento da
                   Escola)
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
INEP               National Institute for Educational and Research Studies (Instituto Nacional
                   de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais)
LDB                National Education Law (Lei de Diretrizes e Bases de Educação Nacional)
LSE                Survey of Educational Situation (Levantamento da Situação Educacional)
MEC                Brazilian Education Ministry (Ministério de Educação e Cultura)
MOS                Minimum Operational Standards
NGO                Non-Governmental Organizations
PDE                School Development Plan (Plano de Desenvolvimento da Escola)
PDD                Regional Plan for Educational Development (Plano de Desenvolvimento da
                   DIREC)
PME                School Improvement Project (Plano de Melhoria da Escola)
PIP                Project Implementation Plan
Proformação        MEC Teacher Certification Program for lay teachers
SAEB               National System for Evaluation of Basic Education (Sistema Nacional de
                   Avaliação da Educação Básica)
SEC                Bahia Secretariat of Education (Secretaria de Educação e Cultura do
                   Estado da Bahia)

SUCAB        Bahia Department of Public Works (Superintendência de Construções
             Administrativas da Bahia)
UE           School Council (Unidade Executora)




                         Vice President:  David De Ferranti
                      Country Director    Vinod Thomas
                        Sector Director   Ana Maria Arriagada
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Andréa C. Guedes

                                           BRAZIL
                         BR- BA BASIC EDU PROJECT (PHASE I)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 28

Project ID: P059565                                                  Project Name: BR- BA BASIC EDU PROJECT
                                                                     (PHASE I)
Team Leader: Andrea C. Guedes                                        TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 8, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: BR- BA BASIC EDU PROJECT (PHASE I)                       L/C/TF Number: CPL-45920
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (40%); Secondary education (40%); Central
                            government administration (20%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Administrative and civil service reform (P);
                            Access to urban services for the poor (S); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/26/1998                                     Effective: 04/30/2001                04/27/2001
     Appraisal: 11/30/1999                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/20/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF BAHIA/SECRETARIA DE EDUCACAO
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David De Ferranti                              David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director:                Ana Maria Arriagada                            Xavier Coll
Team Leader at ICR:             Andréa C. Guedes                               Alberto Rodriguez
ICR Primary Author:             Andréa C. Guedes; Thomas
                                Luschei


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The development objectives of the Bahia Education Program, to be supported by two APLs, are to: (a)
improve fundamental (1st - 8th grades) and secondary (9th - 11th grades) school outcomes, as measured by
improvements in dropout and promotion rates and student performance on standardized tests; and (b)
increase access to secondary school, as measured by an increase in secondary enrollment.    The Program
consists of two phases, with similar objectives but different performance indicators. This ICR refers to
Bahia Education Project, which supports Phase I of the Program.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives remained unchanged during its implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project was made up of three components: (i) improving school quality; (ii) expanding access; and (iii)
strengthening educational management for a total project cost of $116 million million of which was
financed by the loan), including contingencies.

Component 1. Improving School Quality ($58.1 million, excluding contingencies)

This component sought to improve school quality by proving inputs to bring state and municipal primary
schools closer to meeting minimum operational standards, and to increase school autonomy for state and
municipal primary and secondary schools by means of the school development process. There were four
subcomponents to Component 1: (1.1) assuring minimum operational standards for schools; (1.2)
supporting the implementation of School Development Plans (PDE); (1.3) financing School Improvement
Projects (PMEs); and (1.4) implementing accelerated classes.

Component 2. Expanding Access ($24.5 million, excluding contingencies)

This component sought to assist Bahia in meeting the increasing demand for secondary education. This
component complemented the IDB-financed Escola Jovem project, a federal project that finances the
expansion and enhancement of secondary education in several Brazilian states, by covering regions of
Bahia that had not been included in the IDB-financed project. A single subcomponent was included in
Component 2, (2.1) planning and providing additional school places.

Component 3. Strengthening Educational Management ($24.0 million, excluding contingencies)

The objective of this component was to provide increasingly autonomous schools with the institutional
environment needed to make timely, relevant and informed decisions to improve student outcomes. There
were four subcomponents to Component 3: (3.1) strengthening educational assessment; (3.2) institutional
strengthening of educational management; (3.3) financing project management; and (3.4) project
monitoring and impact evaluation.

3.4 Revised Components:
N/A

3.5 Quality at Entry:
SATISFACTORY. The project was consistent with the objectives of the CAS and the priorities of the
State Government of Bahia.       Project goals were aligned with the State Government's own strategic
priorities for education, operationalized into the Educar Para Vencer program, and its poverty reduction



                                                    - 2 -

strategy, Faz Cidadão!, which targets resources toward the State's 100 poorest municipalities. As such,
project components supported the actions of Educar Para Vencer. Additionally, project activities were
coordinated with those financed by the FUNDESCOLA projects, Bank-financed loans to the Federal
Government aiming at improving the quality of fundamental education. By providing support to programs
that the Government was establishing at the time, the project advanced a clear set of objectives that the
Borrower considered relevant and important, with each program giving leverage to the other.

Project components reflected lessons learned from earlier Bank projects and studies in Brazil and Latin
America. For example, the School Development Plan (PDE) and School Improvement Plan (PME) were
outgrowths of experiences in Chile, Uruguay, and Brazil that supported the development of school
autonomy as a strategy to improve educational quality. The use of a Minimum Operational Standard
(MOS) framework to ensure equitable distribution of school infrastructure resources stemmed from a
similar approach in the FUNDESCOLA projects, as did the employment of micro planning to assess the
need for additional classrooms and schools. Recent Bank studies of educational challenges in Brazil's
Northeast guided the project's strategy to address age-grade distortion through accelerated classes for
students in grades 5-8. Finally, the implementation of a statewide, school-level continuous assessment
system is based on the successful implementation and expansion of Brazil's national SAEB testing system.

One weakness of project preparation, also identified at the Quality of Entry Review, was the choice of
lending instrument, the Adaptable Program Loan (APL) --intended to provide phased support to long-term
strategies and programs. Given the short five years implementation period projected for the entire Program
(two APLs), a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) would have been a more appropriate instrument for this
project. While the APL mechanism reduced country exposure, the preparation of Phase II represented
unnecessary additional costs to the Government and the Bank. Likewise, the short implementation period
of Phase I did not allow for the establishment of intermediate outcome indicator targets for the Program
because movements in education indicators normally take longer than two years.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
HIGHLY SATISFACTORY. This project financed Phase I of the Bahia Education Program, supporting
the initial two years of a five year APL.      As such, the Program's development objectives and its
corresponding impact indicators cover the entire period of the APL and have not yet been reached.
Nonetheless, most of those indicators had already shown improvements at the completion of the Phase I
project. Additionally, as required by the APL financing mechanism, Phase I had several implementation
indicators, which served as triggers for the implementation of Phase II. All of those indicators were met
and/or surpassed during the implementation period, providing the basis for a successful transition into the
next phase of the Program. For this reason, the achievement of objective of this project is rated as highly
satisfactory.




                                                   - 3 -

The Program's outcome indicators include: (a) increase net secondary enrollment rates in the state of
Bahia by 14 percentage points; (b) reduce secondary and fundamental cycle drop-out rates by 6 and 3
percentage points respectively; (c) increase promotion rates of fundamental cycle students by 15 percentage
points; (d) increase promotion rates of secondary students by 11 percentage points; (e) increase average
performance of secondary and fundamental cycle students in Portuguese and mathematics by 5 percent; (f)
increase promotion rates of fundamental cycle students in Bahia's 100 poorest municipalities by 10
percentage points. At project completion, net secondary enrollment rates had increased by 4.9 percentage
points while secondary drop-out rates had decreased by three percentage points. Promotion of secondary
students also increased by more than two percentage points. In contrast, fundamental cycle indicators
worsened: drop-out rates increased by three percentage points while promotion rates decreased by 4.1
percentage points. Achievement data showed slippage in student test scores from 1999 to 2001, but a true
evaluation covering the actual dates of project implementation (April 2001 to June 2003) will not be
possible until results of the 2003 SAEB become available.         Such decrease in achievement is consistent
with the increase in Fundamental cycle enrollment that Bahia had, whereas schools are now reaching the
poorest and/or most isolated segments of the student population, normally children who have not had any
access to education and whose parents tend to have received limited formal schooling. A similar pattern
occurred throughout Brazil and detailed studies commissioned by the Ministry of Education determined that
the increase in enrollment was mostly responsible for the decrease in achievement in the SAEB tests.
Likewise, an increase in repetition is also frequent in this scenario, particularly when teachers do not
receive specific training to address the shortcomings common among this new student population.               The
increase in drop-out rates, however, cannot be explained by these changes, and merits a more detailed
investigation.

While over-age distortion is not one of the outcome indicators of this Program, the project's actions directly
addressed this problem. Thus, it is worth noting that trends in this indicator reveal initial success: between
2001 and 2002, overall age-grade distortion in the state of Bahia, as measured by the percentage of
students two or more years older than the appropriate age for their grades, decreased by seven percentage
points for 5th through 8th grades and 14 percentage points for 1st - 4th grades. For this reason, it is likely
that the Program will continue to positively impact student flows.

As stated earlier and detailed in table below, the project met all the triggers for initiation of Phase II as well
as most of its implementation targets. More than twice as many schools as originally estimated attained
Minimum Operation Standards (MOS), four times as many primary schools received PME resources, twice
as many accelerated classes were functioning, and 20 percent more school places were created.              All 33
Regional Education Offices (DIRECs) prepared Regional Education Development Plans (PDD) and 2,287
education leaders received training.

                                     Project Triggers for Initiation of Phase II
             Trigger                        Projected in PAD                At Appraisal of            At Project
                                                                                Phase II              Completion
Minimum operational standards      70% of schools expected to benefit   3,825 schools            4,330 schools
attained                           during Phase I (1,750 schools)
PME resources transferred to       70% of schools (530 secondary        537 secondary schools 540 secondary schools
schools expected to benefit during schools, 110 primary schools)
Phase I                                                                 405 primary schools       405 primary schools

Accelerated Classes functioning    At least 70% (7,700 classes)         14,556 classes           14,416 classes
New school places created          At least 70% (98,000 school places) 108,152 places            119,072 places
PDD developed and financed         At least 22 DIRECs                   33 DIRECs                33 DIRECs
Education management leaders       At least 70% (1,750 leaders)         1,911 leaders            2,287 leaders



                                                     - 4 -

trained
School-level, SAEB-based           All public, urban schools located in Achieved             Achieved
standardized assessment            municipalities attended to by Educar
implemented                        Para Vencer



4.2 Outputs by components:
The two-phased Bahia Education Program consists of complementary strategies designed to improve school
quality and outcomes, expand equitable access to secondary education, improve system management, and
address long-standing inequities in educational opportunities. These strategies include: (a) focused school
attention in the 100 poorest municipalities; (b) promotion of School Development Plans (PDEs) and School
Improvement Plans (PMEs) as the main instruments to improve school autonomy; (c) promotion of
accelerated classes to reduce age-grade distortion in the fundamental cycle; (d) use of microplanning to
maximize school space; and (e) promoting greater school focus and accountability in system management
through the use of planning tools, performance contracts, recruitment standards, and objective evaluation
information. As previously highlighted, Phase I of this project included three components: (1) improving
school quality; (2) expanding access; and (3) strengthening educational management.              The overall
implementation of those components was found highly satisfactory, given that most of implementation
indicators identified in the Project's Appraisal Document (PAD) were surpassed and that most of the
Program's outcome indicators are moving toward the established goals.

Component 1.      Improving School Quality (HIGHLY SATISFACTORY). This component sought to
improve school quality by providing inputs to bring state and municipal primary schools closer to meeting
minimum operational standards (MOS), and to increase school autonomy for state and municipal primary
and secondary schools by means of school development process.

1.1     Assuring minimum operational standards (MOS) for schools. This subcomponent sought to
assess and upgrade the physical infrastructure of schools, ensuring minimum operational standards -- as
defined by a predetermined set of essential inputs and conditions needed for a school to be considered
operational-- for all of the 194 state fundamental cycle schools located in the 100 poorest municipalities
and 2,500 fundamental cycle schools administered by the respective municipalities. By project completion,
MOS had been met in 187 state-operated schools and 4,143 municipal schools, representing a total of
4,330 schools, 173% of the initial goal. According to implementation personnel, successes of this
component resulted from the availability of information gathered through the Survey of Educational
Situation (LSE), which was conducted over four months in 5,116 schools, and the participation and
increased capacity of school directors. Additionally, an impact evaluation study carried out under the
project found a positive and statistically significant relationship between promotion rates and the existence
of MOS in schools. Students whose schools had the MOS program had a mean promotion rate of 72.9%,
significantly higher than the rate of 68.9% in schools without the program.

1.2     Supporting the implementation of School Development Plans (PDE). This subcomponent was
designed to increase school autonomy and community involvement through the development of PDEs. The
PDE process requires that schools engage in a long-term development plan in which local school councils
meet, design an action plan, and submit yearly requests to finance their plans. The project goal was the
development of PDEs in at least 700 secondary schools and 150 fundamental cycle schools with at least
200 students. By project completion, PDEs had been developed in 540 secondary schools (77.1% of goal)
and 2,321 fundamental schools (more than 15 times project goal). These results stem partially from the
overestimation of the number of beneficiary schools in the first case and underestimation in the second.
Despite delays in the implementation of the PDE due to a prolonged teachers' strike, the impact of the PDE



                                                      - 5 -

program was noted during visits to PDE schools, in which Bank missions found the quality of PDEs to be
appropriate with evident positive impacts on schools. Additionally, a 2003 study commissioned by the
Bank found that the PDE experience had a significant positive impact on the degree of parental
participation in school decision-making.

1.3     Financing School Improvement Projects (PME).                    This subcomponent financed the
implementation of a section of the school development plan where the school identified selected actions to
advance the achievement the targets identified in the PDE.             The implementation target for this
subcomponent was to transfer PME resources to at least two-thirds of PDEs in schools belonging to the
state system, or approximately 466 secondary schools and 100 fundamental cycle schools. By project
completion, PME resources had been transferred to 540 secondary schools (116% of original target) and
405 fundamental cycle schools (405% of project goal). Although the PME was designed to improve school
learning and quality, many of the neediest schools used these resources for minor infrastructure
improvements and/or materials. This prompted the Secretariat of Education to place a limit of 35% on the
use of PME resources to upgrade school facilities.

1.4     Implementation of accelerated classes. This subcomponent was designed to address Bahia's
long-standing problem of acute age-grade distortion ­about 68% of all students at the fundamental cycle
were considered over-aged at the time the project started. This problem was to be addressed through the
use of Accelerated Classes, where over-age students are grouped in modules, progressing at a faster pace
than the regular school year until they have caught up and are reintegrated into appropriate grade levels.
Due to greater-than-anticipated demand, the goal for this subcomponent--the implementation of 11,000
Accelerated Classes in at least 60 municipalities--was surpassed, as 14,416 Accelerated Classes were
implemented (131% of goal) in 281 municipalities, reaching approximately 417,774 students. Likewise,
this component ended up costing about one-third more than original estimates, due to the cost of materials
and equipment. While it is difficult to attribute greater statewide trends solely to project actions, it should
be noted that overall age-grade distortion decreased by six percentage points from 2001 to 2002.
Additionally, school principals and teachers have reported that teachers of regular classes have begun to
incorporate the methodologies designed for Accelerated Classes into their own classrooms, while many
students being reintegrated into regular classes have demanded appropriate and focused instruction from
their teachers. This is consistent with the findings of an evaluation study carried out under the project
which found a positive and statistically significant relationship between promotion rates and the presence of
the Accelerated Classes program: the mean promotion rate in affected schools was 70.9%, compared to
68.1% in unaffected schools. The evaluation also found a negative and statistically significant relationship
between student repetition rates and the presence of the program: the mean repetition rate in affected
schools was 13.2%, compared to 15.7% in unaffected schools.

Component 2: Expanding Access (SATISFACTORY). The objective of this component was to assist
Bahia in meeting the growing demand for secondary education.

2.1     Planning and proving additional school spaces. The objective of this subcomponent was to use
microplanning and structural reorganization of the secondary school system to ensure the provision of
additional school places through the articulation and rationalization of state, municipal, and private school
resources.    This subcomponent was designed to complement the IDB's Escola Jovem project, which
covers a different geographical area.     The implementation target of this subcomponent was to provide
140,000 additional secondary school places:         90,000 through new construction and 50,000 through
microplanning, which combines school mapping and Geographic Information systems, followed by
structural reorganization. Due to delayed signing of the agreement to guarantee counterpart funds, as well
as complex administrative procedures within the State of Bahia's Department of Public Works (SUCAB),


                                                      - 6 -

which was responsible for the management of the school construction process delays, only 415 of the 750
new classrooms were built before project completion. By project's end, only 85% of the original estimate
had been completed, and a total of 119,072 school places had been added to the system, distributed as
follows: 16,560 created by the construction of new schools, 49,800 by the construction of new classrooms,
and 52,712 created through reorganization of the state system.

Component 3: Strengthening Educational Management (HIGHLY SATISFACTORY).                                The
objective of this component was to provide increasingly autonomous schools with the institutional
environment they need to make timely, relevant, and informed decisions to improve student outcomes.

3.1     Strengthening educational assessment. The objective of this subcomponent was to support the
development and initial application of a continuous assessment system to complement the existing national
system (SAEB) but allowing for school-level analysis. Initially the assessment would be applied in all the
100 municipalities originally included in the Educar para Vencer program and eventually expanded to
cover the entire state educational system. This assessment consisted of two elements, both to be developed
and applied by the Evaluation Agency (ISP/FAPEX) of the Federal University of Bahia: a Learning
Assessment (Avaliação de Aprendizagem), to be conducted and applied three times a year in grades 1
through 4, and an Achievement Assessment (Avaliação de Desempenho), to be applied in grades 4, 8, and
11 every two years. The Learning Assessment was designed to train schools to use continuous assessment
to adjust curriculum and teaching strategies. The Achievement Assessment was to be based on the national
SAEB and was designed to build a culture of assessment and evaluation in the state of Bahia. By
completion of Phase I, the Learning Assessment had been conducted five times, reaching a total of 2,783
urban schools in 275 municipalities. The Achievement Assessment was applied in the years 2000, 2001,
and 2002, reaching all urban public schools (2,990 schools) in 273 municipalities. In 2002, the SEC
decided to apply tests in only grades 4 and 8. The next application is scheduled for 2004. According to
personnel at the Evaluation Agency as well as school survey results, schools have welcomed the Learning
Assessment as a means to assess students and improve instruction. The application of the Achievement
Assessment also appears to have strengthened the culture of assessment in the state, whereas now teachers
seem to have incorporated continual assessment as a tool to improve their instruction and student learning.
However, the SEC has not yet used the data generated by this assessment in a systematic way to evaluate
programs or engage in strategic decision-making.

3.2     Institutional strengthening of educational management. This subcomponent was designed to
improve project management through two separate activities: improving capacity in the SEC's regional
offices (DIRECs) and establishing a certification and training system for school principals and top school
administrators.

DIRECs were to be improved through the completion of three goals: (i) development of Regional Plans for
Educational Development (PDDs) in all of Bahia's 33 DIRECs; (ii) outcome contracts signed with all 33
DIRECs; and (iii) first transfer of PDD resources to at least 22 DIRECs. By project completion all of
Bahia's DIRECs had prepared their PDDs and outcome contracts had been signed. Additionally, all of the
33 DIRECs had received PDD resources, surpassing the project's target by 50%.              However, initial
assessments carried out by the Bank during project supervision found the quality of many of the PDDs to
be poor and to lack a requisite focus on the school. While PDDs were expected to describe DIRECs'
strategies to give technical assistance to their local schools and municipal secretariats, many of the plans
consisted of the actions for which DIRECs had previously been responsible, such as administrative
supervision of schools. In other words, the PDDs did not reflect the changing reality of decentralization, in
which schools handle many of these administrative concerns themselves. Consequently, only DIRECs with



                                                     - 7 -

quality PDDs received full financing, while those with poor quality PDDs received partial transfers to
continue improving the PDDs.

The certification of school professionals was designed to establish a transparent, standardized approach to
certify school principals and other school administrators. These professionals were first required to
demonstrate a set of minimum academic standards and school leadership skills by passing a standardized
test. Passing candidates then participated in leadership training opportunities, which led to certification
upon completion. The project's goal was to certify and train at least 2,500 education management leaders.
By project completion, 2,287 educational management leaders were trained, almost 92% of the project's
target and another 333 candidates who were tested and trained under the project are expected to receive
formal certification within the next few months, for a total of 2,620. The positive externalities to the
certification process are worth highlighting. The staff from the Fundação Luís Eduardo Magalhães
(FLEM), the implementation agency responsible for this activity, reported that the certification process
resulted in greater transparency and reduction of clientelism in the selection of school principals. Likewise,
it has had a "multiplier effect" on parents, who have begun to demand greater accountability from school
administrators. Furthermore, the certification methodology has been adopted by several other Brazilian
states and Bahia's State Legislature has determined that the certification is a prerequisite for the
nomination of future school leaders, thus ensuring sustainability of the process after the Program ends. On
the other hand, FLEM personnel reported some problems with the certification process, including the lack
of commitment to the process on the part of school leaders nearing retirement, as well as the need to train
school professionals prior to taking the certification exam rather than after they have passed it.
Interestingly, an evaluation of the certification of school directors carried out in December of 2002 found
no positive or statistically significant relationship between four efficiency indicators (promotion, repetition,
evasion, and dropout rates) and the certification program. For example, in schools where administrators
were certified, the percentage of retained students was 15%, compared to 14.5% in schools where
administrators were not certified. Additionally, the promotion rate was 68.2% in schools where
administrators were certified and 69.7% in schools without certified administrators. Neither one of these
differences was statistically significant. While these results do not appear to support the certification
program, the evaluation suggests that the certification of administrators may result in school principals
becoming more committed and stricter.

3.3      Financing project management. This subcomponent called for the successful financing and
operation of project management. This was to be achieved through assembling and training a team of
highly capable individuals under the SEC's Program Coordination Unit (COPE). This objective was clearly
achieved --the project met and/or surpassed its targets without any extensions and disbursing 96.6 percent.
Despite initial concerns regarding the implementation capacity of the SEC, the project implementation unit
worked diligently and efficiently to achieve the majority of project objectives. Consequently, project
management was consistently rated as Highly Satisfactory during its implementation, prompting the Bank's
Country Director with support from the Education Sector Manager to recommend the preparation of a case
study on the project's impact and processes, particularly project monitoring and evaluation. Likewise, the
effectiveness and efficiency in which the COPE implemented the project attracted the attention of other
State governments preparing and/or implementing Bank loans and COPE ended up hosting several study
tours from other states and providing formal and informal technical assistance on several aspects of project
implementation to those governments.

3.4      Project monitoring and impact evaluation. This subcomponent financed project monitoring and
evaluation, including studies to evaluate the project's progress and final impact. A predetermined list of
studies and evaluations was not established during project preparation, though some impact studies were
recommended. The subcomponent's objective was achieved through a series of evaluations, including an


                                                       - 8 -

impact evaluation conducted by an outside agency, two audits, three statewide applications of the
Achievement Evaluation, a study to evaluate the impact of the school autonomy model, and consistent
internal monitoring via Project Management Reports (PMRs).             The COPE's monitoring system was
regarded as highly satisfactory by the Bank throughout project supervision and was recommended as a
model for other units within the SEC.      Likewise, it was also viewed as a model by other states --Rio de
Janeiro, Pernambuco, and Paraíba --which sent representatives to visit COPE and get technical assistance
from their team to develop similar monitoring systems.

Results of the project impact evaluation, completed in 2002, were encouraging, particularly with respect to
the effect of the certification of principals, accelerated classes, and minimum operational standards, as
already described. Additionally, a qualitative evaluation of the project identified eight strengths of the
Program's autonomous model: (i) a comprehensive approach; (ii) increased motivation on the part of
school stakeholders; (iii) an inclusive decision-making approach; (iv) increased accountability at the school
level; (v) transparency of the PDE and PME processes; (vi) school communities' use of PME resources as
an investment budget; (vii) technical assistance provided to schools by the state secretariat and regional
offices; (viii) physical renovations of schools through the implementation of MOS. Weaknesses in project
implementation included: (i) lower levels of community participation in poorer rural schools; (ii) diminished
ability of DIRECs in rural areas to provide technical assistance to schools; and (iii) uncertainty in many
schools regarding the emphasis and goals of the school assessment and evaluation component.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
SUBSTANTIAL. The Bahia project along with the Educar para Vencer were responsible for introducing
a systematic manner in which to evaluate the causes for the low educational performance of public schools
as well as promoting creative solutions on how to address those shortcomings. Likewise, the project was
responsible for introducing in SEC a new education managerial culture which trickled-down to the schools,
where changes are more strongly noticeable. It is, however, still premature to determine the full impact of
such changes. The strong institutional capacity shown during project implementation took place through
the use of highly qualified professionals hired from outside of SEC to staff the project's implementation
unit and carry out the project ­which is consistent with the Government's own policy of out-sourcing
services.   The work of these professionals ensured the successful implementation of the project and
influenced other areas of the SEC by example and through the transfer of successful practices. However,
given that many of the personnel charged with project implementation came from outside the SEC and may
leave upon project completion, it is possible that much of the institutional capacity built during the
implementation of the project may be lost. It is worth noticing, however, that most of the activities
contracted out under this project are those expected to become unnecessary in a few years -- for instance,
accelerated classes should no longer be necessary once the student flow is corrected-- as the project
preparation team carefully selected activities best-fit for "out-sourcing". Similarly, SEC has demonstrated
a strong commitment to "institutionalize" those activities that are expected to remain an integral part of the
education system of Bahia through the Phase II of the Program.

Development of institutional capacity at the school level, through programs such as the PDE and the
Learning Assessment, has been strong. Implementation personnel of these project components report
positive local reactions to project interventions and the strengthening of the school as an autonomous agent.



                                                      - 9 -

An evaluation commissioned by the Bank has found that these processes have also improved the degree of
community participation in school management. Parents' participation in school activities, as well as the
certification of school professionals, has also brought greater accountability to school processes.
Consequently, because project activities strongly fostered increased capacity at the school level, regardless
of state-level political changes, teachers and parents will likely continue to demand government
commitment to improving school quality and access.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Exchange rate fluctuation. Political uncertainty in Brazil surrounding the presidential election in 2002, as
well as global economic factors, resulted in substantial fluctuation of the Brazilian currency during project
implementation: between project signing in February 2001 and closing in June 2003, the real to dollar
exchange rate increased from 1.98 to 2.97, reaching a peak of 4.03 in October 2002. This fluctuation
required substantial flexibility on the part of the project's financial team, which had to adjust to a
strengthening dollar by expanding some activities and spending more to ensure full disbursement, and then
readjusting as the dollar weakened during the final months of the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Federal government's commitment to education. Project planning and implementation were positively
influenced by recent education reforms undertaken by federal government. Changes include: (1) approval
of the 1996 National Education Law, which redefined the educational roles and responsibilities of each
government level; (2) creation of the Fund for the Development of Fundamental Education and Valorization
of Teachers (FUNDEF), which guarantees minimum per-student expenditures for all primary students and
financial equalization between municipal and state school systems; (3) increased financial autonomy at the
school level; and (4) improvement in the assessment of school quality and student achievement.

Alignment between State and project goals. At the state level, the government demonstrated a high level
of commitment to educational improvement through its programs Educar Para Vencer and Faz Cidadão!,
which were closely aligned with the project and directly supported by it.            This ensured statewide
commitment to the project's actions, including availability of counterpart funding and highly qualified
implementation teams. The state government has also supported components of the project by passing
legislation to establish certification as a prerequisite for nomination of school managers. Additionally, the
government has passed legislation that links 25 percent of the state budget to education expenditures.

High turnover of Secretaries of Education. During project implementation, five different secretaries led
the SEC. While none of the new secretaries fundamentally altered project design, the potential for these
secretaries to make personnel changes led to a degree of uncertainty and periods of transition when
activities at the SEC decelerated.       Additionally, in January 2003, the SEC instituted a 40 percent
downsizing in personnel throughout the SEC, including staff of the implementing agency.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Staffing adjustments. As previously stated, toward the end of project implementation SEC had a 40%
downsizing in personnel, including staff of the implementation agency. However, through readjustment and
the merging of positions, the project maintained its previous level of implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the project was estimated at appraisal to be US$116 million, out of which US$69.6 would
be IBRD-financed (60 percent) and the balance (40 percent) State Government financed. The project
closed on time and with a financial execution of 96.6 percent with actual disbursements schedule closely



                                                      - 10 -

following the PAD estimate despite exchange rate variations.         Reallocations across components and
expenditure categories, favoring the better performing activities, were carried out during project
implementation, as shown in the table below and detailed in Annex 2.

                Component                     Appraisal Estimate         Actual Cost       Percentage of
                                              (Gov't and IBRD)       (Gov't and IBRD)        Appraisal
                                              in millions of US$*    in millions of US$
  1. Improving school quality                         58.1                   84.1              144%
 2. Expanding access to secondary schools             24.5                   13.5              55%
  3. Strengthening educational                        24.0                   15.4              64%
  management
         * Excludes contingencies.


Improving school quality. Due to greater-than-anticipated demand and the expansion of the Accelerated
Classes program, acquisitions for the accelerated classes disbursed more than anticipated. Similarly,
implementation of the Minimum Operational Standards (MOS) substantially exceeded project estimates
(4,330 classes, compared to an estimate 2,500). Consequently, equipment costs for this program exceeded
estimates and the total component cost was approximately 40 percent higher than original projections.

Expanding access to secondary schools. This component disbursed about 50 percent of the appraisal's
estimate because of: (i) the Government's failure to construct 335 new classrooms by project completion;
(ii) savings in unit costs of constructing new classrooms achieved through efficient procurement
procedures; and (iii) the addition of 2,712 school places above the original estimate through system
reorganization rather than new construction.

Strengthening educational management. This component also had a cost under-run of about 35 percent
of the original estimate due to: (i) the poor quality PDDs, which did not receive full financing; (ii)
cancellation of some of the training scheduled for the student flow correction program and the management
strengthening; and (iii) diminished need for consultants' services.

Reallocations across expenditure categories were consistent with the implementation changes described
above. The goods category, which includes all of the materials for the accelerated classes as well as
furnishings and equipment for MOS, absorbed 2.5 times the appraisal's estimate; the works category,
which includes new construction, absorbed about one-third of the appraisal's estimate. Likewise, the
project's incremental operational costs were lower than original estimates, mostly due to training that did
not take place and a diminished need for consultants' services. Other expenditure categories disbursed
relatively closely to original estimates.

The structure of the project's Financial Administration Coordination (FAC) was deemed to be satisfactory
by the Bank, as stated in supervision reports, and despite initial procurement problems in the
implementation of Accelerated Classes, procurement procedures received consistently high marks in PSRs.
It should be noted that several implementation personnel expressed frustration with the strictness and
complexity of Bank procurement procedures to contract goods and services.

Audits. The project's two audit reports, for the calendar years of 2001 and 2002, were delivered in a
timely manner and found satisfactory. There were no serious issues or deficiencies identified in the reports
but recommendations on how to improve the project's financial management system.                       Such
recommendations were promptly implemented.




                                                    - 11 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
LIKELY. The project was designed to support the government's education program, Educar Para Vencer
, and, as such, it was fully aligned with the government's strategic priorities. The project financed a
combination of strategies to address education problems, including activities that should naturally become
unnecessary within the next few years (i.e. correction of grade-age distortion, ensuring minimum
operational standards, construction of new secondary schools, etc.), and activities that should remain as an
integral part of the education system (i.e. establishing a student evaluation culture, certifying school
managers, etc.).    Those activities with the highest cost are expected to become redundant within a few
years. The fact that the project is followed by Phase II, will also increase the time by which the staff from
SEC, DIRECs and schools can fully assimilate the cultural change in education management promoted by
the project.

While continued political commitment from the government remains a key factor affecting the project's
sustainability, the fact that some reforms have already been institutionalized in the state of Bahia provides
reassurance. For example, the Bahian state legislature has required that candidates for school leadership
positions receive certification before they are nominated for positions. The Evaluation Agency's
Achievement Assessment follows a model that has been established at the national level by the SAEB, as
well as in several other states. Finally, because the project actively promoted increased capacity and
autonomy of schools and greater participation of parents, ownership of the project's reforms at the school
level may ensure that, regardless of state-level political changes, teachers and parents continue to demand
government commitment to improving school quality and access.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Since this project finances Phase I of a two-phase program, there has not been the need to transition to
regular operations yet, but rather to Phase II of the program, which occurred smoothly and on schedule.
The implementation team has remained essentially unchanged, ensuring the continuation of institutional
memory. During Phase II, continued integration of project activities and processes into the SEC is a high
priority to ensure continuation of project achievements beyond completion of the program.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
SATISFACTORY. The team approached preparation in a very thorough and constructive way and the
dialogue over preparation was such that many needed policy and institutional changes were in place prior
to project approval, facilitating initial implementation and reducing the need for formal conditionality.
After a change in state governments during initial preparation, the Bank worked with the SEC to integrate
goals of the government's Educar Para Vencer program into the Bahia Education Project. As a result, the
project earned a greater level of government commitment while Educar Para Vencer benefited from
technical assistance and greater resources. As an example of the increased resources available to Educar
Para Vencer, in 2000 the program reached 61,000 students in 45 municipalities; by 2003, coverage had
increased to 1.8 million students in 417 municipalities. Additionally, the Bank team's decision to use an
APL financing approach made project financing more flexible and acted as a hedge against possible
reduction in political commitment or insufficient implementation capacity.

7.2 Supervision:
HIGHLY SATISFACTORY.                  The Bank task team worked closely with the SEC and the project
implementation team, acting as both an outside consultant and a critical team member. At the outset of the



                                                    - 12 -

project, the Bank brought together the core group responsible for project implementation to participate in
operational workshops in procurement, disbursement and other Bank activities. The Bank's implementation
team also included the Program Coordination Unit's (COPE) members in the preparation and supervision of
other Bank-financed projects in Brazil and in other countries (i.e. FUNDESCOLA, Ceará Education,
Trinidad and Tobago Education, and Dominican Republic Pre-school), as a well of fostering knowledge
sharing.   This training continued both formally and informally throughout project implementation.
Members of the project's financial team reported that the Bank's procurement personnel responded quickly
and ably with requests for advice. Additionally, the Bank's biannual missions, as well as an open and
honest dialogue with the Borrower, allowed for fine tuning during implementation.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
HIGHLY SATISFACTORY.                Well defined objectives and well targeted activities, alignment with
government's strategic priorities, focus on project goals, and appropriate support toward their completion
fostered a positive relationship between Bank and Borrower and led to successful completion of Phase I of
the project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
HIGHLY SATISFACTORY. The state government of Bahia demonstrated a strong commitment to
increasing educational quality and equity, which translated into heavy involvement in project preparation,
intense and productive dialogue with the Bank that constructively changed both the policy framework and
project design as preparation proceeded, and well-articulated plans, Educar Para Vencer and Faz
Cidadão! These plans contributed to project planning by adding focus and strengthening relevance of the
project to the government. Additionally, by establishing a well trained and capable implementation team,
the SEC addressed doubts about its ability to complete a comprehensive, internationally financed education
project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
SATISFACTORY. Despite a change of governors and several changes in secretaries of education during
project implementation, as well as some initial delays in providing counterpart funding to the project, the
government maintained a cohesive education policy, as well as the political and financial commitment to the
project throughout Phase I.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
HIGHLY SATISFACTORY.                 The implementation team demonstrated high levels of capacity,
commitment, and professionalism. Project management, monitoring and evaluation, and procurement all
received consistently high ratings in PSRs. Due to the hard work of implementation team and other
agencies charged with implementing components of the project, most of the output objectives were met and
many were exceeded. Additionally, project implementation occurred smoothly and without significant
delays despite frequent turnovers of the Secretary of Education and a major reduction in staff in January
2003.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
HIGHLY SATISFACTORY.                The project serves as a model for future Bank work with state
governments, due largely to government commitment to project objectives and the success of the
implementing agency.




                                                   - 13 -

8. Lessons Learned

Alignment with the Borrower's Priorities. The project preparation team's willingness to delay project
preparation in favor of waiting for the design and consolidation of the incoming administration's education
program --Educar Para Vencer--was fundamental for the successful completion of the project. It ensured
consistency between the Government's strategic priorities for the education sector and the overall program
objectives which, in turn, generated commitment to the project and ownership of it.

School Autonomy. Qualitative analysis in Bahian schools has demonstrated that increased autonomy of
schools, through the PDE and PME process, has contributed to strengthened institutional capacity in
schools and greater community participation in school planning and actions. The Evaluation Agency's
Learning Assessment has also helped teachers to evaluate and improve their instruction through the use of
continual assessment. Additionally, the certification of principals, which was pioneered in Bahia under
Educar Para Vencer, appears to be a successful means to strengthen the capacity of school leaders and
make their selection more transparent. All of these activities have led to greater school autonomy and
reduced dependency on political processes.

Choice of Loan Instrument. The APL approach can be advantageous because of the lower level of
financial exposure for the Bank and more flexible sequencing of project activities. Nevertheless, the
mechanism may not be the most appropriate for projects with an implementation period under six years, as
it has higher preparation cost for the Government and the Bank.            Considering the uncertainty still
surrounding the project at the time of project signing, this may have been an appropriate choice. However,
there was little value added in terms of flexibility to adapt to changes, ensuring long-term government
commitment, and having adequate output triggers.

Strong Monitoring and Evaluation. The project featured a consistent and reliable monitoring system that
has facilitated the evaluation of the project and its separate subcomponents. Additionally, the Evaluation
Agency's Learning and Achievement Assessments have begun to build a culture of evaluation at the school
and state level. The next step for the SEC will be to begin making use of the data generated by the
Achievement Assessment, which covers all urban state schools in Bahia, to apply a rigorous value-added
analysis to its programs.

Use of Implementing Agencies. The careful selection of which activities should carried out in-house and
which should be "contracted-out" is a key determinant of the project's ability to build institutional capacity
and be sustainable. Activities of a more permanent character should either be carried out in-house or there
should be a strong effort during project implementation to transfer the technical know-how to regular staff.

Education indicators. Expanding primary level enrollment to reach the last decile of the school-aged
population is often accompanied by a short-term drop in student assessment results and, possibly, an
increase in repetition rates. This is consistent with the fact that reaching the poorest and/or most isolated
segments of the student population implies bringing into the education system children who had no previous
access to schooling, whose parents tend to have had limited or no schooling, and who are the least prepared
to enter school.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower's contribution are included in Annex 8 of this document.


                                                    - 14 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                             - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase net secondary enrollment from      20.2%                                       20.2%
15.3% to 29.3%

Reduce fundamental cycle drop out rates     19.6% fundamental                           19.6% fundamental
from 16.4% to 13.4% and secondary           18.6% secondary                             18.6% secondary
drop-out rates from 21.6% to 15.6%

Increase promotion rates of fundamental     65.3%                                       65.3%
cycle students from 69.4% to 84.4%

Increase promotion rates of secondary cycle 72.5%                                       72.5%
students from 70.4% to 81.4%

Increase average performance of             Indicators: SAEB (1999)                     Change from 1999 to 2001:
fundamental and secondary cycle students,   4th grade Portuguese: 165.5                 4th grade Portuguese: -9%
in Portuguese and Math by 5 percent.        4th grade mathematics: 177.0                4th grade mathematics: -5.4%
                                            8th grade Portuguese: 240.6                 8th grade Portuguese: -1.4%
                                            8th grade mathematics: 252.4                8th grade mathematics: -3.3%
                                                                                        11th grade Portuguese: -2.2%
                                                                                        11th grade mathematics: 0.2%

Increase promotion rates of fundamental     68%                                         68%
cycle students residing in the 100 poorest
municipalities from 69% to 79%.

Above indicators are for the entire Bahia Education Program, expected to be completed in June of 2006.

Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 Minimum operation standards met in at   2,687 schools                               4,330 schools
least 2,500 schools


1.2 PDEs developed in at least 150          150 fundamental cycle schools               2,321 fundamental cycle schools
fundamental cycle schools and 700           700 secondary schools                       540 secondary schools
secondary schools


1.3 First transfer for PME completed to at  100 fundamental cycle schools               405 fundamental cycle schools
least 100 fundamental cycle schools and 466 466 secondary schools and schools           540 secondary schools
secondary schools


1.4 Accelerated classes implemented in at   60 municipalities (9,600 classes)           281 municipalities (14,416 classes)
least 60 municipalities


2.1 Number of secondary school places       140,000 secondary school places expanded    119,072 secondary school places
expanded by at least 140,000 places


3.1 Assessment system tested in 100% of     100% of state schools in Educar para Vencer Achieved
"Educar para Vencer" schools                municipalities (180 municipalities)


3.2 Regional management improved by
means of:
   - PDD developed in 33 DIRECs             - PDD developed in 33 DIRECs                Achieved / 2,287 management leaders
   - Outcomes contract signed with 33       - Outcomes contracts signed with 33         trained
DIRECs                                      DIRECs
   - First transfer for PME completed to at - First transfer for PME completed to 15
least 22 DIRECs                             DIRECs
   - 2,500 education management leaders     - 2,500 education management leaders




                                                                 - 16 -

certified and trained                     certified and trained


3.3 Project management operating                                             Achieved
successfully


3.4 Project monitoring and evaluation in                                     Achieved
place

1End of project
Impact indicators are for Phase I of the Bahia Education Program, financed by this project.




                                                             - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                            Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
                         Component                          US$ million  US$ million
1. Improving School Quality                                   58.10         84.10           144.7
1.1 Assuring minimum operational standards for schools
1.2 Supporting the implementation of School Development
Plans (PDE)
1.3 Financing School Improvement Projects (PME)
1.4 Implementing accelerated classes
2. Expanding Access to Secondary Schools                      24.50         13.50            55.1
2.1 Planning and providing additional secondary school
places

3. Strengthening Educational Management                       24.00         15.40            64.2
3.1 Strengthening educational assessment
3.2 Institutional strengthening of educational management
3.3 Financing project management
3.4 Project monitoring and impact evaluation

Total Baseline Cost                                          106.60        113.00
 Physical Contingencies                                        9.40           0.00              0
                           Total Project Costs               116.00        113.00
                                           Front-end fee                      0.70
                     Total Financing Required                116.00        113.70


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                              0.00            12.30        6.00        5.50        23.80
                                     (0.00)          (6.15)      (3.00)        (0.00)      (9.15)
2. Goods                             23.40            3.70         3.20        0.00        30.30
                                     (12.75)         (1.50)      (1.30)        (0.00)     (15.55)
3. Services                           0.00            0.00        10.50        12.80       23.30
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)      (10.50)       (0.00)     (10.50)
4. School Subprojects                 0.00            0.00        28.50        0.00        28.50
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)      (28.50)       (0.00)     (28.50)
5. DIREC Subprojects                  0.00            0.00         3.00        0.00         3.00
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)      (3.00)        (0.00)      (3.00)
6. Incremental Operational            0.00            0.00         7.10        0.00         7.10
Costs                                (0.00)          (0.00)      (2.90)        (0.00)      (2.90)
   Total                             23.40            16.00       58.30        18.30       116.00
                                     (12.75)         (7.65)      (49.20)       (0.00)     (69.60)



                                                  - 18 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                                                           1
                                                                  Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category
                                                 ICB                NCB                    2                         Total Cost
                                                                                     Other            N.B.F.

   1. Works                                      0.00               7.00              0.00              5.10            12.10
                                                (0.00)             (3.40)             (0.00)          (0.00)         (3.40)
   2. Goods                                      27.74              0.70              1.70              0.00         30.14
                                                (26.50)            (0.60)             (1.00)          (0.00)        (28.10)
   3. Services                                   0.00               0.00              8.10              0.00          8.10
                                                (0.00)             (0.00)             (7.90)          (0.00)         (7.90)
   4. School Subprojects                         0.00               0.00              23.40             0.00         23.40
                                                (0.00)             (0.00)            (23.40)          (0.00)        (23.40)
   5. DIREC Subprojects                          0.00               0.00              2.70              0.00          2.70
                                                (0.00)             (0.00)             (2.70)          (0.00)         (2.70)
   6. Incremental Operational                    0.00               0.00              4.30              0.00          4.30
   Costs                                        (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.70)          (0.00)         (0.70)
   7. Other, NBF                                 0.00               0.00               0.00             32.3          32.2
                                                (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
   8. Front-end Fee                              0.00               0.00              0.70              0.00          0.70
                                                (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.70)           (0.00)        (0.70)
       Total                                     27.74              7.70              40.90             37.4         113.7
                                                (26.50)            (4.00)            (37.40)          (0.00)           (67.90)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Improving School           41.40        16.70                    57.30         26.80                 138.4    160.5
Quality
1.1 Assuring minimum
operational standards for
schools
1.2 Supporting the
implementation of School
Development Plans (PDE)
1.3 Financing School
Improvement Projects
(PME)
1.4 Implementing
accelerated classes


2. Expanding Access            6.80        17.70                     4.30         9.20                  63.2      52.0



                                                          - 19 -

2.1 Planning and proving
additional secondary school
places


3. Strengthening            12.00  12.00           5.60   9.80    46.7 81.7
Educational Management
3.1 Strengthening
educational assessment
3.2 Institutional
strengthening of
educational management
3.3 Financing project
management
3.4 Project monitoring and
impact evaluation

Contingencies               9.40    0.00                          0.0   0.0




                                           - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/20/1998                1    Task Team Leader
                                        1    Economist
                                        1    Education Specialist

              06/22/1998                1    Task Team Leader
                                        1    Institutional Dev. Specialist
                                        1    Finance Specialist

              08/05/1998                1    Task Team Leader
                                        1    Institutional Dev. Specialist
                                        1    Education Finance Specialist

              03/23/1999                1    Task Team Leader
                                        1    Institutional Dev. Specialist
                                        1    Education Finance Specialist
                                        1    Economist

              10/21/1999                1    Task Team Leader
                                        1    Procurement Specialist
                                        1    Education Finance Specialist
                                        1    Financial Management

              12/05/1999                1    Task Team Leader
                                        1    Education Finance Specialist
                                        1    Sr. Education Economist
                                        1    Education/Evaluation
                                        1    Institutional Dev. Specialist
                                        1    Procurement Specialist
                                        1    Financial Management Specialist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/10/2000                1    Task Team Leader
                                        1    Education Finance Specialist
                                        1    Education Policy Analyst
                                        1    Operations Analyst
                                        1    Financial Management
                                             Specialist

              06/28/2000                1    Task Team Leader
                                        1    Legal Counsel
                                        1    Sr. Education Economist
                                        1    Operations Analyst
                                        1    Procurement Advisor
                                        1    Sr. Disbursement Officer
                                        1    Financial Management Specialist




                                              - 22 -

 Supervision

               04/26/2001              1    Task Team Leader                    S    S
                                       1    Procurement Specialist
                                       1    Financial Management Specialist

               09/17/2001              1    Task Team Leader                    S    S
                                       1    Student Assessment Specialist

               03/08/2002              1    Task Team Leader                    S    S
                                       1    Procurement Specialist
                                       1    Financial Management Specialist
                                       1    Education Policy Specialist

               08/31/2002              1    Task Team Leader                    S    S
                                       1    Financial Management Specialist
                                       1    Student Assessment Specialist

               08/31/2002              1    Task Team Leader                    S    S
                                       1    School-based Mgmt. Specialist
                                       1    Economist



 ICR
               09/29/2003             1     Education Economist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              n/a                             n/a
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    34                          91,438
  Supervision                              27                          69,217
  ICR                                     4.5                          13,606
  Total                                    64                        174,261




                                            - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

DOCUMENTS SUPPORTING PROJECT PREPARATION

A Call to Action: Combating School Failure in the Northeast of Brazil (World Bank Sector Study
       Report No. 18358-BR), World Bank, Brazilian Ministry of Education, UNICEF,
       December 19, 1997.

Carta Lei Darcy Ribeiro no. 9.394, de 1996: Emendas à Constituição nos. 11 e 14, de 1996 e Lei
       9.424, de 1996, Diretrizes e Bases da Educação Nacional. Gabinete do Senador Darcy
       Ribeiro, Brasília, 1997.

Determinação de Custos Educacionais: Uma Analise Panorâmica do Estado da Arte. Robert E.
       Verhine, Universidade Federal da Bahia, 1998.

Diretrizes Curriculares Nacionais Para o Ensino Médio: 1998. Conselheira Guiomar Namo de
       Mello: Ministério da Educação e do Desporto - Conselho Nacional de Educação.

Ditos sobre a Evasão Escolar: estudos de casos no estado da Bahia. Paulo Roberto Holanda
       Gurgel. Ministério da Educação e do Desporto - MEC, Projeto de Educação Básica para
       o Nordeste, Brasília, 1997.

Educação, Escola e Comunidade: estudo piloto no estado da Bahia. Adélia Luíza Portela and Eni
       Santana Barretto Bastos. Ministério da Educação e do Desporto - MEC, Projeto de
       Educação Básica para o Nordeste, Brasília, 1997.

Education for All: Evaluation of the Year 2000. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
       Educacionais--INEP, Brasília, 2000.

Ensino Médio e Educação Profissional no Estado da Bahia: Diagnóstico Elementos Estratégicos:
       Convénio entre a Secretaria de Educação do Estado da Bahia e Instituto Miguel Calmon.
       Altiplanos Planejamento Engenharia e Consultoria Ltda.

Financiamento da Educação Básica: Um Estudo de Receitas e Gastos das Redes de Ensino da
       Bahia: 1998.    Universidade Federal da Bahia: Faculdade de Educação/Programa de
       Pos-Graduaçao em Educação, Centro de Estudos Interdisciplinares para o Setor Público -
       ISP.

Gerenciando a Escola Eficaz, Secretaria da Educação da Bahia, Salvador, 2000. Plano Nacional
       de Educação Brasília, 1998.

Projeto da Educação do Estado da Bahia Ensino Médio -Estudos Preliminares--Açoes
       Preparatórias, Julho 1998.     Secretaria da Educação - SEC, Superintendência de
       Desenvolvimento Educacional - SUD, Departamento de Desenvolvimento Educacional -
       DESEN.



                                            - 26 -

Redirecionamento do Ensino Médio e Profissional do Estado do Bahia -Diretrizes-: 1996-1998.
       Governo do Estado da Bahia, Secretaria da Educação - SEC, Departamento de Ensino -
       DEE.

DOCUMENTS            AND     STUDIES        CARRIED        OUT       DURING      PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION

Avaliação de Desempenho 2002, Relatório da Escola, Secretaria da Educação da Bahia, 2002.

Censo Escolar, Bahia 2002: Resultados Preliminares, Secretaria da Educação da Bahia,
       Salvador, 2002.

Educação em Números 2002, Secretaria da Educação da Bahia, 2002. Plano de Implementação
       do Projeto (PIP). Secretaria da Educação da Bahia, Versão 1.5, 2003.

Padróes Mínimos: Manual de orientação para implantação de padróes mínimos de instalações
       físicas e de funcionamento da escola.

PDE: Orientações para a execução financeira dos recursos destinados à implementação do
       PDE, Secretaria da Educação da Bahia, 2000.

Project Appraisal Document: Bahia Education Project, Phase I. World Bank, Washington, D.C.,
       2000.

Project Appraisal Document: Bahia Education Project, Phase II. World Bank, Washington, D.C.,
       2003.

IMPACT EVALUATION STUDIES

The Bahia Education Project: School Level Intervention and the Autonomous Model Impact on
       Community Building and Parental Participation, Juan Manuel Galán, World Bank.

Impact Evaluation Research of the Bahia Education Program: Basic Assessment--Phase I. Prof.
       José Afonso Mazzon, General Coordinator, October 2002.

Impact Evaluation Research of the Bahia Education Program: Intermediate Assessment Report,
       Prof. José Afonso Mazzon, General Coordinator, December 2002.

Relatórios de Gerenciamento do Projeto. Secretaria da Educação da Bahia, 2001, 2002, 2003.




                                            - 27 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

I - INTRODUCTION

This document consists of the Borrower's contribution to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for
the Phase I of the Bahia State Education Project (Bahia Project).

Due to its complexity and size, the issue of education in Bahia is a matter of strategic importance for the
development of the State, and the focus of special attention from the State Government. In order to respond
to the Government's education policy, the Bahia Project is designed to upgrade the quality of education at
the fundamental and secondary levels, expand access to secondary education, and strengthen education
management through expanding and supplementing actions implemented through Federal Government
Programs. These measures are closely synchronized with the new reality and trends resulting from the
implementation of the Fundamental Education Development Fund (FUNDEF), the municipalization of
fundamental education and the priority placed on strengthening education management at the school level
and in the offices responsible for education.

The Bahia Project was designed to be implemented in two Phases (Phase I and Phase II), with the former
scheduled for 2001 through 2003 and the latter for 2003 through 2006. On February 12, 2001, the State
Government signed Loan Agreement N 4592-BR with the IBRD, which partially financed the activities
scheduled in Phase I of the project implementation plan, in order to achieve the targets set for the three
objectives listed above. The IBRD agreed to lend the Bahia State Government US$69.6 million with the
State counterpart equivalent to US$46.4 million, totaling US$116 million.          The closing date of this
Agreement was June 30, 2003. An IBRD loan US$60 million is planned for Phase II with the State
counterpart equivalent to US$40 million, for a total of US$ 100 million to finance the actions planned for
Phase II.

II ­ CONTEXT

The Bahia State Government is keenly aware of the need for across-the-board reforms in the field of
education, rating this as top priority since 1991. The priority placed on education as a strategy for social
inclusion, and a leverage for other development indicators, was reaffirmed through the Pluri-Annual Plan
for 2000-2003 (PPA), which referred to the education process as "the main tool for social inclusion and the
construction of citizenship."

In 1991, the then Secretariat of Education (SEC) produced a detailed diagnosis of the sector, in order to
chart the main obstacles blocking the implementation of reforms in the State educational system. This was
designed to inform all of SEC's executives of the challenges faced by the sector, and to rank its priorities.
Having completed the diagnosis, the following critical points were highlighted:

    (i)   lack of administrative rational in carrying out processed, resulting in duplicated actions and
          excess staff;
    (ii)  failure of mechanisms to control and administer job positions and wages, with several cases of
          school directors and deputy directors receiving improper wage benefits;
    (iii) inefficient managerial performance by the Regional Education Offices (DIREC);
    (iv)  excess teachers assigned to administrative activities outside the classroom;
    (v)   shortage of teachers in schools, resulting in a deficit of 12,000 classroom/hours in the State
          capital alone;



                                                   - 28 -

    (vi)   deterioration of the physical infrastructure of the State education network, including schools
           either shut down or operating under precarious conditions, with a shortage of seating, equipment
           and other consumption materials;
    (vii) sluggish processing of paperwork; and
    (viii) lack of information technology.

Following the completion of the diagnosis, SEC carried out an organizational restructuring based on the
principles of rational administration and managerial decentralization in order to forge ahead with the
implementation of innovative actions within the educational sector.

These innovative actions were directed towards the steady elimination of the main bottlenecks noted in the
State education system. The following are highlighted due to their severity:

    (i)    extremely high drop-out rates, reaching 40% a year;
    (ii)   gaps in the teacher training system, with most teachers in the first four years of primary
           education lacking formal qualifications;
    (iii) inefficient student flows, with large numbers of students clogging the 1st through 4th grades of
           the fundamental level. Student flows in 5th through 8th grades also irregular, with one-third of
           the students in 5th grade, and only 12% in 8th grade
    (iv)   high repetition results, resulting in a high age-grade distortion;
    (v)    centralized and hierarchical administration model, with excessive concentration of power at SEC
           and limited autonomy at the school level.

Once the key bottlenecks of the system were identified, modernization efforts were guided by some basic
principles. Additionally, the information served as the basis to change SEC's organizational structure.

The concepts of democracy and decentralized management have been stressed in modern society as key
values for inclusion by government policies, both in academic discussions as well as in planning and
policy-making by government sectors. Within this context, the issue of democratization and
decentralization of managerial activities in the education system is a major challenge, both due to the vast
size of the education system as well as the need to deconcentrate control.

This democratization is grounded on the principles of administrative, education and financial autonomy for
schools, and the introduction of mechanisms that foster effective participation by society. The transition to
a real level of participation in defining and developing these policies became a challenge in determining the
configuration of the education systems, with progresses and regresses.

The review of the past changes in Bahia's education sector helped identify the following the basic
principles underlying the main strategies, programs and projects implemented by SEC from 1991 through
2001: quest for managerial autonomy at the school level; universal expansion of education, particularly the
fundamental level; and improvements in teaching qualities.

Although these strategies have distinguished the activities of SEC, differences may be noted in terms of
priorities and the programs implemented during the period under analysis. Up until 1999, the focus was on
rationalizing administrative proceedings, with the institutionalization and professionalization of SEC. This
period was also characterized by the proliferation of programs and projects designed to upgrade either its
processes and/or its end activities.

In 1999, there was a clear shift in terms of a vision and strategic projects. From then on, efforts and


                                                      - 29 -

resources were focused on drawing up and implementing a set of integrated projects under the Educar para
Vencer Program, guided by the principles of "the student at the core of the reform" and "the school as the
backbone of change," with the strategic objectives of upgrading teaching quality and ensuring school
autonomy.     It was no longer a matter of ensuring universal access to fundamental education, which was
an objective already well under way, but rather assigning high priority to the improving teaching quality
while ensuring school autonomy. It was within this context that the Bahia Project was designed, supporting
the strategic actions of the Educar para Vencer Program, in addition to others deriving from Federal
Programs, such as the implementation of minimum operating standards and physical facility parameters
inspired by the FUNDESCOLA model. Another noteworthy aspect is the expansion of access to secondary
education, which is a key factor given the perspective of improving student flows at the fundamental level.

The Educar para Vencer Program is currently the main systemic reform strategy for Bahia's education
system. Initially implemented in 45 municipalities, by 2000 it covered some 61,000 students and 3,700
teachers, who had been trained previously to work with this Program.              By 2001, it covered 140
municipalities, reaching 280 in 2002. In order to establish the selection criteria for the first group of
municipalities mentioned above, geographical proximity was taken into account, as well as the need to
comply with the Faz Cidadão and Cidades Líderes projects, run by the Government. In 2003, it is
expected to serve 417 municipalities in this State, with 61,600 classes benefiting some 1.8 million students.
The Educar para Vencer Program also involves the state and municipal education networks, with the
voluntary adherence of municipalities, clustering five priority education projects and four strategic projects.


The five priority projects are:

    (i)   correcting student flows from 1st - 4th grades and 5th - 8th grades;
    (ii) strengthening school management;
    (iii) strengthening managerial capacity of municipal educational systems;
    (iv) certifying education specialists and directors; and
    (v) carrying out external evaluations of the teaching.

The four strategic projects are:

    (i)   Instrumental Enrichment Program (PEI);
    (ii) Expansion and Improvement of Secondary Schooling and Vocational Education;
    (iii) Distance Learning Technology; and
    (iv) Information System.

Notwithstanding the progress achieved, some challenges still remain in the State education system. The
time in operation of the Educar para Vencer Program has not been sufficient for its strategic projects to
produce the expected impact on the quality of public education in Bahia. The results of the outside
assessment of the public education network in 2000 and 2001, through the student achievement of the 4th
and 8th graders indicate that there is still a long way to go although moving along the right path before
students show that they have attained the desirable learning levels. According to the findings of the
Evaluation Agency in 2000, 4th grade students had learned only 52.6% of the contents of the Portuguese
language course assessed, and 47.6% of the mathematics content, while these indicators reached 50.8% and
23.9% respectively for the 8th grade. In 2001, the findings did not present any significant statistical
variation: 51.0% absorption of Portuguese content and 44.0% for mathematics in the 4th grade and 41.8%
for Portuguese and 24.8% for mathematics in the 8th grade.




                                                    - 30 -

It is true that the education system in Bahia still features high age-grade distortion rates. According to the
School Census 2001, there are some 2,953,000 students lagging behind their proper grades and enrolled in
fundamental education, accounting for 79.7% of total enrollment. Among them, 1,447,500 are 15 years or
older. In secondary education, this situation is repeated even more severely. In 2001, 512,000 students
enrolled for secondary education in the state schools were lagging behind their grades, accounting for
88.4% of the total number of enrolled students. The age-grade distortion for fundamental education in the
state and municipal education networks in Bahia reached some 66.8% in 2001.

The repetition and drop-out rates are still quite high, reaching 36.4% for fundamental level and 36.5% for
the secondary level in 2000, according to the data in the School Census 2001. According to the same
source, the completion rate dropped from 70.7% in 1998 to 63.7% in 2000 for fundamental level. During
the same period, this rate declined from 68.5% to 63.5% for the secondary level. At the fundamental level,
students repeating a year accounted for 17.7% 2001 enrollment, with this figure reaching 7.6% for the
secondary level.

In terms of the progress noted in the gross and net coverage rates for the secondary level, enrollment is still
insufficient, compared to projected demand. In this case, the difficulties arise from a set of factors that
include: a) lack of more assertive strategies for this education level; b) pressures from improvement in the
educational flow at the fundamental level; and c) demographic growth rates of the 15 to 17 year-old age
groups, which are higher than the total average rates due to birth rates that were still high during the late
1980s, imposing heavy pressures through demands for places in secondary schools.                  For SEC, the
challenge is now to improve school performance and transition indicators as well as the teaching quality at
both levels of education, while expanding secondary education coverage, as close to satisfactory coverage
has already been achieved for fundamental education.

It is noted that the productivity of an education system is reflected mainly in its capacity to generate a
stable student flow, with no major numerical discrepancies between the number of students enrolled in the
first and final grades of the specific level of education. Failures and drop-outs are factors preventing
smooth education flows, as the efficiency of the education system declines as these rates rise. It is the
age-grade gap that causes the system to weaken.

Consequently, over the next few years, actions designed to correct the student flow should be stepped up to
tackle repetition, the main reason behind the age-grade distortion and drop-out rates. In order to implement
these actions, high priority should still be given to the four critical factors that allow the school to function
with quality: autonomy of the education establishment, with professional management and community
participation; well-trained staff, properly selected and remunerated, with adequate promotion mechanisms;
availability of basic inputs and pedagogical materials in the schools; and ongoing assessments as a quality
control mechanism.

Keenly aware of the importance of education as the most powerful tool to attain development and to ensure
social inclusion, the Government of Bahia has been strengthening institutional capacity and developing
strategies to improve the quality of the public education system and to increase school autonomy. The
decision to pursue a strategy that addresses the problem at its foundation is confirmed by the Educar para
Vencer Program. Moreover, the intention to correct the student flow is already rated as a high priority,
and effective actions for achieving this are already underway through the program.

The ongoing process of gradually creating the conditions needed to ensure autonomous and effective
performance of the municipal education networks and of the schools was once again guided and launched in
1999 under the auspices of the Educar para Vencer Program. More specifically, from 1999 onwards SEC


                                                     - 31 -

has been shifting its focus of activity, stressing its function as responsible for formulating policies,
programs and projects in the education sector, as well as its role as regulator of the State education system.
Nonetheless, the results of such a radical shift in focus require time, particularly given where its starting
point. It is necessary not only to pursue the strategic objectives as established, but also to streamline the
implementation of projects and tools for transforming outdated and conservative practices and cultures in
the field of education in Bahia. These are the main political challenges to be dealt with.

III ­ THE RESULTS OF IMPLEMENTING THE BAHIA PROJECT - PHASE I

In Phase I, the Bahia Project sought to upgrade the quality of education at the fundamental and secondary
levels, expand access to secondary education, and strengthen school management.

In order to upgrade the quality of fundamental and secondary education, strategic actions undertaken by
FUNDESCOLA were adapted and expanded to a wider universe. Based on the preparation of the School
Development Plan (PDE) and financing under the School Improvement Plan (PME), these actions allowed
funds to be transferred directly to schools, in order to meet the needs identified with the local community.
In order to correct student flows between the 5th and 8th grades, which is the main bottleneck in the
fundamental level --with significant repercussions on the secondary level-- accelerated classes were
introduced, with special materials and teachers trained through distance learning especially for this
purpose. The implementation of these classes is designed to correct age-grade distortions for students
attending the fundamental level, bringing them up to the grade corresponding to their age.

The expansion of the secondary education system was implemented through the reorganization of the State
network, seeking a more rational use of school places, as well as through expanding existing schools and
building new ones.

In order to strengthen school management, it was important to use the data produced under the School
Assessment project, which provided important feedback to identify necessary adjustments during project
implementation.     Moreover, the technical capacity of educational managers was enhanced, through
certifying school directors and deputy directors, and implementing the Development Plans for the Regional
Education Offices (DIRECs).

The actions listed under Phase I are clustered according to their components and sub-components, as
described below.

1. Upgrading the quality of fundamental and secondary education

1.1 Implementation of minimum standards for physical facilities and functioning. In order to support the
implementation of minimum standards, Phase I of the project financed a survey of the physical status of all
public fundamental level schools located in the 100 municipalities in Bahia with the lowest Human
Development Indexes, covering 5,116 schools, of which 187 were state run and 4,929 municipal run. On
the basis of this survey, funds were transferred to 404 schools (209 state and 195 municipal schools), to
finance their rehabilitation, totaling some US$ 1,387 per classroom, ensuring that they complied with the
minimum standards for physical facilities.

In parallel, in order to ensure minimum functioning standards, sets of classroom furniture was distributed,
benefiting 4,135 schools (187 state and 3,948 municipal schools), corresponding to 8,522 classrooms
(1,023 state and 7,499 municipal). Consequently, the results achieved (4,135 schools) were far higher than
the original PAD targets (2,500 schools). The success of this sub-component results from the use of an


                                                    - 32 -

efficient furniture distribution strategy, rationalizing as much as possible the criteria for the inclusion of the
schools, and consequently constituting a factor in the successful enhancement of the quality of education in
a poverty-stricken region of Bahia State.

Activity indicators:

        (i)     5,116 schools: physical status surveyed;
        (ii)    404 schools: minimum standards established; and
        (iii)   4,135 schools: operating under minimum standards.

1.2 Implementation of School Development Plans (PDEs). Inspired by some actions undertaken by the
FUNDESCOLA Program, Phase I of the project financed the preparation and implementation of the School
Development Plans (PDE), transferring funds directly to fundamental and secondary level schools. As
proven through the Basic Education Project in Northeast Brazil, this process is efficient for channeling
funds to their beneficiaries and promoting proper management of school inputs. Endowed with greater
autonomy, well-trained managers and community support, the schools have efficiently and effectively found
ways of meeting their needs with financing from the School Improvement Plan (PME). PDEs were
prepared in 2,861 public schools (1,959 State and 902 municipal schools) and 945 State-run schools
received financing for their PMEs, of which 135 were located in municipalities covered by the Programa
Faz Cidadão, with the amounts transferred to the schools varying according to the number of students.

Activity indicators:

        (i)   2,861 schools with development plans (implemented through PDE); and
        (ii) 945 PMEs implemented.

1.3 Introducing accelerated classes to correct student flow. Actions to correct the student flow focused on
age-grade distortions in the 5th through 8th grades, with 14,551 classes set up benefiting some 422,000
students in 271 municipalities covered by the Educar para Vencer Program. Consequently, once again it is
possible to perceive the maximization of efforts for implementing this sub-component, surpassing the
PAD's original targets due to the efficient implementation of the activities planned by the technical staff of
SEC: by project closing 14,551 had been implemented, compared to the PAD's target of 11,000 classes,
later revised down to 9,600

Activities indicator:

        (i)   14,551 accelerated classes established.

2. Expanding access to secondary education

2.1   Reorganization of the secondary education state network. Phase I financed activities that increased
the number of places available in secondary education through reorganizing the physical space available in
State-run schools.

Activities indicator:

        (i)   52,712 places created at the secondary level.

2.2 Building new schools. Phase I financed the construction of fourteen new secondary schools, four with


                                                       - 33 -

funds provided by the Bahia Sate Government. The new schools were fully equipped with school furniture
and laboratories for chemistry, physics, biology and computer.

Activities indicators:

         (i)   14 schools built;
         (ii) 16,560 new places opened up in the secondary level.

2.3 Expanding new rooms in existing schools: Phase I financed the expansion of 750 new classrooms in
existing schools, of which 415 were expanded and furnished. However, it should be noted that the expected
target was not achieved due to unsuccessful procurement processes. Of the 750 classrooms earmarked for
expansion, 415 were built, with 335 units outstanding. Nonetheless, the total number of new places
created in secondary education (119,072) through reorganizing the network, in addition to new construction
and expansion of classrooms was higher than the minimum target stipulated in the PAD (98,000 places).

Activities indicators:

         (i)   415 new classrooms built;
         (ii) 49,800 new places created in the secondary school system.

3. Strengthening education management

3.1 Assessing the public network. The evaluation of the public school network was undertaken through
assessing student achievement (similar to the SAEB) and the learning process (bi-monthly) in order to
analyze the more immediate results of the actions undertaken in some municipalities. The main purpose of
the assessments is to evaluate school performance in terms of education quality, so as to define strategies to
improve student performance. Through these actions, an education evaluation culture was established
which regularly provides feedback for planning and delivering education and carrying out school
management, both important tools to improve the learning process in the public network.          The student
achievement assessment is intended for schools offering 4th and/or 8th grade basic education, and every
two years those offering the last grade secondary education.

The achievement and learning assessments are under the responsibility of an Evaluation Agency, created to
independently coordinate the assessment processes of the public schools of Bahia. The learning assessment
is focused on fundamental education in towns where the Educar para Vencer Program is being run, based
initially on proficiency tests for Portuguese and mathematics, subsequently including history, science and
geography. It is noteworthy that these tests are prepared by the Evaluation Agency, with external technical
assistance.

Based on the findings of this assessment, television programs were produced to bridge educational gaps,
train teachers, and provide supplemental classes for students. The achievement assessment was applied at
2,990 schools (1,329 State-run and 1,661 assigned to local governments), while the learning assessment
covered a universe of 2,783 schools (1,003 State-run and 1,780 municipal-run).

Activities Indicators:

         (i)   Evaluation Agency operative;
         (i)   Learning assessment applied at 2,783 schools;
         (iii) Achievement assessment applied at 2,990 schools.


                                                    - 34 -

3.2 Certification of Educational Managers. In order to upgrade management at the school level, Phase I
financed activities that led to the certification of school directors. Through identifying candidates for the
certification, following a pre-defined professional profile, the gradual implementation of the director
certification process began.

Activities indicator:

         (i)  2,287 certified directors.

3.3 Implementation of the Development Plans for the Regional Education Offices ­ DIRECs. Following a
process similar to the preparation of the School Development Plan (PDE) and School Improvement Plan
(PME), 33 DIRECs received technical support for preparing their Development and Improvement Plans.
After approval, these Plans were partially financed through transferring funds to the DIRECs, based on a
management contract signed between SEC and each DIREC. The items financed under the plan required
that the schools be the main focus of DIRECs' action.

Activities indicator:

         (i) 33 DIRECs with Development Plans implemented.

IV ­ LESSONS LEARNED DURING THE CONCEPTUALIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
OF THE BAHIA PROJECT/ PHASE I

It is possible to identify important factors during the preparation and implementation of Phase I of the
Project to be considered as true "lessons learned."

In terms of project appraisal (Phase I), previous experiences with the Northeast III and FUNDESCOLA II
projects were of utmost importance, as well as the IBRD's own knowledge of issues in the education sector
in Bahia and in Brazil.

The selection of school autonomy as one of the backbones to improve the quality of fundamental and
secondary education took into consideration the experiences and problems faced by other countries such as
Chile, Uruguay, and Columbia, learned through technical staff of the World Bank.

On the other hand, the decision to implement minimum operational standards resulted from
FUNDESCOLA's experiences, which proved to be a concrete and useful tool to reduce education
inequalities in a large geographical area such as Bahia.

In terms of the accelerated classes to correct student flows in the 5th through 8th grades, the experience of
other Brazilian states such as in São Paulo and Paraná -- was taken into consideration when designing the
project.

The distinctive needs of the students enrolled in the evening shift were taken under consideration when
designing the project, as it was assumed that the preparation of school development plans in secondary
schools could be an important strategy to respond to the concerns of this group of students.

The experiences of the FUNDESCOLA Project in applying technical criteria to ensure the efficient use of
physical space in schools, as well as the need to open up new student places, known as micro-planning,


                                                     - 35 -

were equally important and taken under consideration when preparing the project.

Finally, also with regard to the design of the project, Brazil's experience with the SAEB should be noted, as
well as the experiences of Chile, the UK and the USA in using outside assessments to identify the education
gaps in a specific system, which were crucial inputs to decision-making.

In terms of project implementation, the following lessons, which will serve as inputs to the preparation of
the Phase II of the APL, are worth highlighting:

    (i)    The flexibility of the APL mechanism, including the possibility of assessing the factors behind
           the success and failure of the implementation in Phase I, as well as fiscal commitment only after
           meeting certain targets and achieving certain targets stipulated in the PAD;

    (ii)   The correct selection of a process to strengthen school management, based on the autonomy of
           the educational establishment, which has proven to be a key factor in Bahia's quest to improve
           the quality of public education;

    (iii) The efficient allocation of funds for implementing minimum standards in the poorest areas of
           Bahia, which encouraged repeating this experience on a smaller scale during Phase II of the
           Project;

    (iv)   Increasing demand for secondary education, due to correcting the student flow in fundamental
           education, confirming the need to continue these actions in Phase II;

    (v)    The need to adopt procedures focused on enhancing the efficacy of procurement processes
           involving civil work;

    (vi)   The low student performance in Portuguese and mathematics, indicated through the outside
           assessments, indicating the need for specific actions to correct the more evident competences,
           which we are striving to resolve through the implementation of the Gestar Management Program
           in Phase II, as this targets efforts precisely in this direction;

    (vii) The positive effects of certifying school directors, which is already apparent in some of the
           poorer schools in Bahia, as proven through the impact evaluation of Phase I; and
           The importance of meeting the educational needs of specific groups such as Indigenous and those
           living in recent land settlements, even if timidly at this stage, which we are striving to do through
           implementing specific actions for these groups during Phase II.




                                                       - 36 -

- 37 -

