Page  1
-
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4592-BR
Loan Agreement
(Bahia Education Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
and
STATE OF BAHIA
Dated February 12, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4592-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 12, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF BAHIA (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower delivered to the Bank the letter, dated April 24, 2000, 
describing the Borrower's program to improve the Borrower's educational system during 
the period 2000-2004 (the Program);
(B) 
the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement (the Project), which Project forms part of the first phase of the 
Program, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(C) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank 
(the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the payment 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Program, upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions 
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Currency Pool Loans" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modification set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read in 
its entirety as follows:
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, 
the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and 
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be 
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"COPE" means Coordenação de Projetos Educacionais, the Borrower's 
Coordination of Educational Projects established within SEC;
(b)
"DIREC" means any of the Borrower's Regional Educational Directorates 
(Diretorias Regionais de Educação) under SEC's jurisdiction;
(c)
"DIREC Grant" means any of the transfers of funds referred to in Section 
3.01 (d) (i) of this Agreement;
(d)
"DIREC Performance Agreement" means any of the arrangements referred to 
in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(e)
"DIREC Subproject" means any of the activities referred to in Part C.3 of 
the Project; 
(f)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(g)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works, services 
and operational costs referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
"Fundamental Education" means the education provided in Brazil from 
grades 1 through 8 (ensino fundamental), as described in Articles 21 and 32 of the 
Guarantor's Law No. 9394, dated December 20, 1996; 
(i)
"Minimum Operational Standards" means the minimum standards established 
by the Borrower for the operation of classrooms in Fundamental Education schools, as 
set forth in the PIP;
(j)
"Minimum Operational Standards Guidelines" means the guidelines referred 
to in Section 5.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, as such guidelines may be amended from 
time to time with the agreement of the Bank;
(k)
"PDD" means any of the regional education development plans to be 
prepared by DIRECs as provided in the PIP, to complement activities developed under 
PDEs;
(l)
"PDD Guidelines" means the guidelines referred to in Section 5.01 (b) 
(iii) of this Agreement, as such guidelines may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank;
(m)
"PDE" means any of the plans for the improvement of a Fundamental 
Education school or a Secondary Education school, as the case may be, to be prepared 
by a School Subproject Implementing Entity as provided in the PIP;
(n)
"PDE Guidelines" means the guidelines referred to in Section 5.01 (b) 
(ii) of this Agreement, as such guidelines may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank;
(o)
"PIP" means the Project implementation plan, sent by the Borrower to the 
Page  3
Bank on June 28, 2000, which contains, inter alia, the detailed procedures for the 
execution of the Project, including procurement and financial management requirements, 
indicators to measure the progress of the Project and the achievement of its 
objectives, the procedures and other requirements for the carrying out of DIREC 
Subprojects and School Subprojects, and the models of the DIREC Performance Agreements 
and School Performance Agreements, as such plan may be amended from time to time with 
the agreement of the Bank;
(p)
"Project Management Report" means any of the reports prepared in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(q)
"School Grant" means any of the transfers of funds referred to in Section 
3.01 (c) (i) of this Agreement; 
(r)
"School Performance Agreement" means any of the arrangements referred to 
in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(s)
"School Subproject" means any of the rehabilitation works to be carried 
out under Part A.1 (b) of the Project, or any of the school improvement projects to be 
carried out under Part A.3 of the Project;
(t)
"School Subproject Implementing Entity" means any state or municipal 
school with financial autonomy (a school which has a caixa escolar), which carries out 
a School Subproject;
(u)
"SEC" means Secretaria da Educação, the Borrower's Secretariat of 
Education, or any successor thereto; 
(v)
"Secondary Education" means the education provided in Brazil from grades 
9 through 11 (ensino médio), as described in Articles 21 and 35 of the Guarantor's Law 
No. 9394, dated December 20, 1996; and
(w)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of sixty-nine million six hundred 
thousand Dollars ($69,600,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works, consultants' services and operational costs required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of the front-end fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%).  On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest 
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, 
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
Page  4
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.07 of 
this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 
30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the 
Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing 
interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) 
of this 
Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower and the Guarantor, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section 
shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
the 
preceding Quarter, plus three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%). On each 
of 
the dates specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on January 1 and July in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through SEC, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, educational, and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the PIP and the school 
construction manuals dated June 28, 2000. 
(c)
For purposes of the carrying out of any School Subproject, the Borrower 
shall enter into arrangements with a School Subproject Implementing Entity (the School 
Performance Agreement), substantially in accordance with the model set forth in the 
PIP, providing, inter alia, for: (i) the terms and conditions of the transfer of funds 
(the School Grant) from the Borrower to such School Subproject Implementing Entity for 
the financing of the School Subproject; and (ii) the obligation of the School 
Page  5
Subproject Implementing Entity to carry out the School Subproject in accordance with 
the provisions of the PIP and the PDE Guidelines or the Minimum Operational Standards 
Guidelines, as the case may be.
(d)
For the purposes of the carrying out of any DIREC Subproject, the 
Borrower shall enter into arrangements with a DIREC (the DIREC Performance Agreement), 
substantially in accordance with the model set forth in the PIP, providing, inter 
alia, for: (i) the terms and conditions for the transfer of funds (the DIREC Grant) 
from the Borrower to such DIREC for the financing of the DIREC Subproject; and (ii) 
the obligation of such DIREC to carry out the DIREC Subproject in accordance with the 
provisions of the PIP and the PDD Guidelines.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights, and comply with its obligations, 
under each School Performance Agreement or DIREC Performance Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not amend, waive or fail to enforce any of such arrangements, or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain COPE, throughout Project 
implementation, with responsibility for the management, monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project and assisted, for purposes of the Project, by technical and professional 
staff, including a Project leader, a financial expert and a procurement expert, with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through SEC, shall during the execution of the 
Project:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis and in accordance with the performance indicators set 
forth in the PIP, the carrying out of the Project (including the School Subprojects 
and the DIREC Subprojects) and the achievement of its objectives;
(b)
furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30 and December 31 of each year, 
until the Borrower starts to produce Project Management Reports, a progress report on 
the execution of the Project during the six-month period immediately preceding the 
date of each such report, said report to be of such scope and detail as the Bank may 
reasonably request and to include the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section; and
(c)
carry out, jointly with the Bank, not later than July 31 and January 31 
of each year, reviews of the progress of the Project and the attainment of its 
objectives on the basis of the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section or 
the Project Management reports, as the case may be, and shall, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of its objectives, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said reports or the Project Management Reports, as the case may be, and the Bank's 
views on the matter.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through SEC, shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain in SEC a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
Page  6
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; 
and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than six months 
after the date of this Agreement, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for 
the 
Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by 
said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds 
of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period 
covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and 
(B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast 
implementation targets; and 
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
Page  7
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
Guidelines with detailed procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, required 
to complement the PIP have been issued by the Borrower for the carrying out of: (i) 
School Subprojects under Part A.1 (b) of the Project (the Minimum Operational 
Standards Guidelines); (ii) School Subprojects under Part A.3 of the Project (the PDE 
Guidelines); and (iii) DIREC Subprojects (the PDD Guidelines).
(b)
Bidding documents, satisfactory to the Bank, have been prepared for the 
international competitive bidding for procurement of school equipment and furniture 
under Part A.1 of the Project.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning 
of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been validly 
registered with the Central Bank of Brazil.
Section 5.03. The date April 30, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Education of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria da Educação
Av. Luís Viana Filho – Centro Administrativo da Bahia
5a. Avenida, 550
41746-900 Salvador, Bahia
Brazil
Facsimile:
(55-71) 371-5650
With copies to:
Secretaria da Fazenda
Page  8
Av. Luís Viana Filho, 260 - Centro Administrativo da Bahia
2a. Avenida, 260
41520-300 Salvador, Bahia
Brazil
Facsimile:
(55-71) 370-8802
Secretaria do Planejamento, Ciência e Tecnologia
Av. Luís Viana Filho, 250 - Centro
 Administrativo da Bahia
2a. Avenida, 250
41746-900 Salvador, Bahia
Brazil
Facsimile:
(55-71) 370-3945
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5 andar
70040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile:
(55-61) 225-4022
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Salvador, Bahia, Brazil, as of  the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
By /s/ Maria Madalena dos Santos
Authorized Representative
STATE OF BAHIA
By /s/ Cesar Rabello Borges
Authorized Representative 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equvalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works (except those under
   8,400,000
50% of local
Categories (4) and (5)
expenditures
below)
(2)
Goods (except those under
  10,900,000
100% of foreign 
Categories (4) and (5)
expenditures 100% of 
Page  9
below)
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) 
and 
40% of local 
expenditures 
for other
items procured 
locally
(3)
Consultants' services
   9,600,000
100% of foreign 
(except rhose under
expenditures and 100% of 
Caregories (4) and (5)
local expenditures
below)
(4)
Goods, works and consultants'
  25,800,000
100% of amounts 
servies financed School
disbursed under 
School Grants
Grants
(5)
Goods, works and consultants'
   2,600,000
100% of amounts 
services financed by DIREC
disbursed under DIREC 
Grants
Grants
(6)
Incremental operational costs
   2,900,000
40% of local 
expenditures
(7)
Front-end fee
     696,000
Amount due under Section
2.04 of this 
Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
   8,704,000
TOTAL
  69,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; and
(c)
the term "incremental operational costs" means costs incurred in the 
daily implementation, management, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, such as 
costs of office supplies, communication services, maintenance of facilities and 
equipment, and staff  per diem and transportation.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for:
(a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed an amount equivalent to $2,000,000, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within one year from 
the date of this Agreement, but not before May 1, 2000; and
(b)
works for the four new Secondary Education model schools under Part B.2 
(c) of the Project, and any expenditures under Part C.2 of the Project.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures under: (a) incremental operational 
costs, School Grants and DIREC Grants; (b) contracts for goods costing less than 
$350,000 equivalent (except the first two contracts); (c) contracts for works (except 
the first two contracts to be procured in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 
(b) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement); (d)  consulting firms' contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (e) individual consultants' contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent (except those for the persons referred to in 
Section 3.03 of this Agreement), all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Page  10
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into 
said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement; 
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Page  11
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means the 
amount of $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the 
amount of $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of $4,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to  SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made  On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed $12,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  12
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the quality of Fundamental and 
Secondary Education services and to increase the access of students to Secondary 
Education schools, in the territory of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:
School Quality Improvement
1.
Upgrading, as necessary, of all Fundamental Education state schools and one-half 
of all Fundamental Education municipal schools located in the 100 poorest 
municipalities in the territory of the Borrower (listed in the PIP) to attain Minimum 
Operational Standards, including: (a) an evaluation of all such schools to determine 
which schools do not meet Minimum Operational Standards; and (b) the provision of 
materials and equipment, and the carrying out of rehabilitation works (financed by 
School Grants) in order to bring schools up to such standards.
2.
Carrying out of PDEs in Fundamental Education schools which are located in the 
100 poorest municipalities in the territory of the Borrower and which enroll more than 
200 students, and in all public Secondary Education schools in the territory of the 
Borrower, including the provision of technical assistance for: (a) training of 
selected school staff in the preparation of the PDEs; (b) mobilization of school 
personnel and the broader school community for the support of the PDEs; and (c) 
evaluation and monitoring of the implementation of the PDEs.
3.
Provision of grants to Subproject Implementing Entities for the financing of 
school improvement projects set forth in the corresponding PDEs, which will consist of 
acquisition of goods, carrying out of minor rehabilitation works, and provision of 
technical assistance.
4.
Implementation of a program to strengthen the academic performance of over-age 
students and reduce age-grade distortions in Fundamental Education, through 
accelerated classes for over-age students in grades 5 through 8, including the 
provision of technical assistance in teacher training and curriculum design.
Part B:
Expanding Access to Secondary Education
1.
Carrying out, through the provision of technical assistance, of a structural 
reorganization of the Borrower's Secondary Education school system based on a demand 
and supply analysis of such system.
2
Construction of: (a) about 750 new classrooms in existing Secondary Education 
schools; (b) ten new Secondary Education schools; and (c) four new Secondary Education 
model schools (escolas modelo, as defined in the PIP).
Part C:
Education Management Strengthening
1.
Development of a student achievement assessment system for the Borrower's 
educational system.
2.
Establishment of a certification system for school principals and top school 
administrators.
3.
Preparation of PDDs and carrying out of the activities (the DIREC Subprojects) 
required to meet the goals of PDDs.  This will require provision of technical 
assistance to DIRECs, and, in certain cases, acquisition of goods and carrying out of 
minor works.
4.
Implementation of the Borrower's integrated information system for the 
management of the Borrower's education sector.
Part D:
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance, of the Project 
Unit's capacity to manage and monitor the Project.
2.
Carrying out of studies to evaluate the impact of the Project.
* * *
Page  13
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)* 
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning July 1, 2006
through January 1, 2016
 3,480,000
___________________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate 
(expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan
on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
Page  14
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
In the procurement of goods pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Part B, the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor. For purposes of the 
Guidelines, the term custom duties and other import taxes includes the Guarantor's 
Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine (Adicional ao Frete para a 
Renovação da Marinha Mercante), established by Decree Law 1.142 of December 30, 1970, 
as amended to December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the 
reasonable opinion of the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 
1, 1988.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount of $3,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
Except as provided in Part C.3 below, works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
Page  15
(c)
In the procurement of goods and works under this Part C.1, bidding 
documents in a standardized form for the Project shall be used. Without limitation to 
any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following shall 
apply to the procurement of goods and works to be undertaken pursuant to this Part 
C.1:
(i)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been 
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation 
to be 
based on price and, whenever appropriate, to also take into 
account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 
2.51 of 
the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation 
shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified 
objectively, and 
the procedure for such quantification shall be 
disclosed in the 
invitation to bid;
(ii)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be 
advertised for at least three consecutive days in a 
newspaper of 
wide circulation in Brazil;
(iii)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in 
advance by the Bank in each case;
(iv)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of 
acceptance of bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract 
prices; and
(v)
there shall not be, without the Bank's prior approval, issuance of 
any change order under a contract which would increase or decrease 
by more than 15% the quantity of works or goods (and related 
services), as the case may be, without any change in the 
unit 
prices or other terms and conditions of such contract.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $3,200,000 equivalent (in the case of goods not included in School 
Subprojects and DIREC Subprojects), may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international or national shopping procedures, acceptable to the Bank, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $6,000,000 equivalent (in the case of works not included in a 
School Subproject or a DIREC Subproject), may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Procurement under School Subprojects and DIREC Subprojects
Goods and works under School Subprojects and DIREC Subprojects shall be procured 
in accordance with the procedures set forth in the PIP, which provides that: (a) works 
will be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 3 above 
(procurement of small works), or through community participation procedures as set 
forth in paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines; and (b) goods and related services will be 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 2 above (shopping 
procedures), or, if such procedures are not feasible, through direct contracting 
procedures.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts in any 12-month 
period during the execution of the Project, the proposed procurement plan for the 
Page  16
Project during such period shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  
Procurement of all goods and works during such period shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods procured under Part B.1 of this 
Section; and (b) the first two contracts each for goods and works procured under Part 
C.1 (a) and (b), respectively, of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Consultants' services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount of $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Consultants' services which meet any of the requirements set forth in paragraph 
3.9 of the Guidelines, costing in the aggregate not more than $3,800,000 equivalent, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, costing in the aggregate not more than $3,400,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals in any 
12-month period during the execution of the Project, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project for such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants during such 
period shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  17
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and for the 
employment of the persons referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement regardless of 
the cost of their respective contracts, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
