Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Rqpt No.   11887
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1314-BEN)
MAY 21, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 435    = US$1.00i
CFAF 1000   = US$2.30
AVERAGE ANNUAL EXCHANGE RATES
YEAR                                    CFAF                             US$
1985                                   449                               1.00
1986                                   346                               1.00
1987                                   301                               1.00
1988                                   298                               1.00
1989                                   319                               1.00
1990                                   308                               1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                             =               3.28  feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                        =               0.62 mile (ml)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)                   =               0.386 square miles (sq ml)
1 hectare  (ha)                         =               2.47  acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)                    =               2,204 pounds (Ibs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CARDER                       Centre d'action  r6gionale  pour  Le deveLoppement  rural  (Regional  RuraL DeveLopment
Agency)
CCCE                         Caisse centraLe de cooperation economique
DEP                          Direction des etudes et de la planification (Studies and Planning Department)
DGR                          Direction du genie rural (Agricultural Engineering Department)
DRA                          Direction de la recherche agronomique (Agricultural Research Department)
ERR                          Economic Rate of Return
FAC                          Fonds d'aide a la cooperation
GF                           Groupement Feminins
GRVC                         Groupement revolutionnaire A vocation coop6rative (Revolutionary Cooperative Group)
GV                           Groupement villageois (Village Group)
ICB                          International Competitive Bidding
IDA                          International Development Association
MDR                          Minist6re du developpement rural (Ministry of RuraL Development)
PCR                          Project Completion Report
PCU.                         Project Coordinating Unit
SAR                          Staff Appraisal Report
SONAGRI                      Societe nationale de l'agriculture
SONAPRA                      Societe national pour la production agricole (successor to SONAGRI)
T & V                        Training and Visit
UCP                          Unions Comnunales des Producteurs
UPSP                         Unions des Producteurs au niveau des Sous-Pr6fectures
ZRDP                         Zou Province Rural Development Project
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
The exchange rate for the CFAF Franc is fixed at a ratio of 50:1 with the French
Franc, which is free floating currency.
bt              This is the exchange rate quoted in the Staff Appraisal Report and it referes to the
parity on November 5, 1984, at the start of negotiations.



FOR OFTICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
May 21, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Benin
Zou Province Rural Development Project
(Credit 1314-BEN!
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Benin - Zou Province Rural
Development Project (Credit 1314-BEN) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II
was prepared by the Borrower.
This complex project (with 13 components) aimed to raise rural incomes and
expand exports. The project design built on the experience of earlier projects
(PPAR/PCR of August, 1980) by focussing on the whole cropping system rather than just
cotton (the main export earner). Even so, the focus remained on cotton, with production
increasing beyond appraisal targets, initially at the expense of foodcrops. Incomes of
participating farmers were substantially higher and increased cotton exports made a
valuable contribution to foreign exchange earnings. Results of six components were short
of expectations, however, especially food crop development and food crop processing
(through women's groups).
The project is rated satisfactory overali, but with disappointing institutional impact
mainly because the intended streamlining of the main implementing agency did not occur
(PCR, para. 4.04). However, the dialogue on the need to restructure all agricultural
development institutions was pursued (in collaboration with all other lenders) in the
context of the recently approved National Agricultural Services Restructuring Project and
satisfactorily completed in early 1993. Although the current cotton-based production
system is functioning well, sustainability is uncertain because of emerging soil erosion and
fertility problems.
The PCR gives a comprehensive and frank account of project experience, except
that the analysis of production growth makes insufficient reference to exogenous factors.
The PCR was sent to the cofinanciers (CCCE and FAC of France) for comments but
none were received.
The project may be audited to explore production results and sustainability issues.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwcs be disclosed without Wordd Bank authorizatlon.



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~



F6R OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLEION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1314 - BEN)
TABLE OF CONTENT
PREFACE                 ................................................  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................... iii
PART L. PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  .............  1
1. Project Identity .....................................  1
2. Background .......................................  1
3. Project Objectives and Description  ........................  2
4. Project Design and Organization  .........................  3
5. Project Implementation  ................................  4
6. Project Results .....................................  5
7. Project Sustainability .................................  7
8. Bank's Performance  .................................  8
9. Borrower Performance ................................  8
10. Project Relationships .................................  9
11. Consulting services  ..................................  9
12. Project Documentation and Data  .........................  9
PART H: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   ..                             ..... 11
PART  I: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   .........................  19
1. Related Bank Credits                          ....  19
2. Project Timetable  ................................... 20
3. Schedule of Disbursement  .............................. 21
4. Project Implementation   ............................... 22
5. Project Costs and Fmancing
A) Project Costs ..................................... 23
B) Project Financing .................................. 24
6. Project Results
A) Direct Benefits. ................................... 25
B) Economnic Impact.  ................................. 26
C) Studies                               .... 27
7. Status of Covenants  ..........        ..      ...................... 28
8. Use of Bank Resources
A) Staff Input (Staffweeks)                      ..... 29
B) Missions (Personnel and Consultants)                  ....  30
ANNEXES
1. Technical Annex
2. Economic Evaluation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



PROJECT COMPLEITON REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1314 - BEN)
Prerac
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Zou Province Rural Development Project
in Benin, for which Credit 1314-BEN in the amount of SDR 18.7 million was approved in November
1982. The credit closed in September 1992, two and a half years behind schedule. It was almost fully
disbursed (99.4%) and the last disbursement was on February 24, 1993.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by a mission of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program and revised by the staff of the Agriculture Operations Division of the Occidental and Central
Africa Department of the Africa Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
This report is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Project File, the Credit
Agreement, supervision reports and information provided by the Zou CARDER, the Ministry of Rural
Development (MDR) and the representatives of other funding agencies in Benin.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1314 - BEN)
Evaluation Summary
Objectives
1.       Following an unsuccessful experience with a rural development project in the Zou and Borgou
provinces of Benin (Cr. 307-BEN, 1972), which was cancelled as a result of institutional difficulties, an
improved policy environment in the late 1970s permitted IDA and the Government of Benin (GOB) to
proceed with the preparation of the present project and also of a similar project (Cr. 1127-BEN and Cr.
1127-1-BEN) in the Borgou province. The Zou project aimed at improving rural incomes and promoting
agricultural exports by strengthening institutions and by ensuring adequate and timely supply of inputs
and efficient evacuation and processing of cotton, while simultaneously increasing food crop production.
Implementation experience
2.       The project was implemented mainly through the CARDER 11 of the Zou department and
involved parallel funding by three external agencies: IDA, CCCE and FAC, the first two in the form of
loan and the latter in the form of grant aid. In general implementation was successful with farmers
responding well to the restructured cotton production system which offered reliable input supply, a secure
market and reasonable financial returns. The greatest operational difficulty was in relation to the
provision of government counterpart funding, and the collapse of the national banking system which
caused substantial amounts of project funds to be frozen in disbanded state banks. Cash flow difficulties
contributed to the slower than planned disbursement rate and created practical implementation problems
for CARDER staff.
3.       A recurring preoccupation of supervision missions was therefore to find ways of easing the
counterpart funding difficulties. Despite the financial difficulties, the CARDER was resourceful in
carrying out its mandate, with the consequence of giving priority to cotton income generating activities
at the expense of other components.
4.       One shortcoming of the project in terms of both implementation and design was the Za-Kpota
seed farm, funded by FAC. The choice of the site had already been made at the time of SAR but proved
most unsuitable and the contribution of this component to the project fell far short of expectations. No
serious consideration appears to have been given to finding another site.
5.       Another weakness was in relation to a technical assistance component, also funded by FAC,
which was supposed to carry out two key studies, one on the CARDER's organization and methods of
intervention and the other on a possible follow-on project. None of these studies were satisfactorily
executed. The technical assistance team, based in Cotonou, embarked on a four-year research program
involving little collaboration with the CARDER. As a result the research and development unit in the Zou
Centre d'action rdgionale pour le ddveloppement rural. This is a quasi-autonomous regional unit of the ministry msponsible
for rural development.



- iv -
CARDER was left with inadequate resources. Moreover, a significant failure in the organization of the
project was the poor integration of the research component with other activities.
Results
6.       The project was a success in terms of achievement of its main objectives. After early delays
caused by counterpart funding difficulties and shortages of key personnel, by project year 5 the targets
for cotton production within the project area had been exceeded, and by project year 7 cotton production
was 75% above SAR projections. Projected yields were exceeded by project year 7 in the case of all
crops except groundnut. The macroeconomic impact of the project was therefore very positive, helping
the external account during a critical period. There is no doubt also that incomes of participating farmers
have been substantially higher than they would have been without the project. The number of
beneficiaries attained 97% of target by PY 8. These results are reflected in an ERR identical to that
estimated in the SAR (22 %) despite the lower economic price of cotton. The greater production of cotton
compensated for the lower international prices and the slower implementation rate for certain components.
Sustainability
7.       A national agricultural services restructuring program has started in November 1992, aiming
at the reorganization of the CARDERs and of the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) for the
establishment of more cost-effective development institutions, capable of implementing national programs
and whose operations would be progressively financed by the national budget. The future of the cotton
production system seems assured. The Societe Nationale pour la Production Agricole (SONAPRA), in
charge of the industrial and commercial aspects of cotton production and marketing, is functioning well
and production of cotton in the Zou province seems likely to increase further, limited mainly by ginning
capacity. Long term sustainability of the farming system in terms of soil fertility was not studied as
intended in the project design, and it is difficult to gauge to what extent this issue should be a cause for
concern. A specific omission of the research component was the failure to recruit an expert agronomist
whose tasks, as defined in the Project File, were to work on food crops and to consider inter alia erosion
issues and the long term effects of the cotton farming system on the fertility of the soil.
Findings and Lessons Learned
8.       The Zou Province Regional Development Project was overall a successful project which
realized its main objectives, in spite of the macroeconomic difficulties faced by the country. An
improved market-based economic environment was successfully introduced by the project into the Zou
province as well as practical systems for the supply of inputs on credit linked with efficient cotton
marketing. These enabled a substantial increase in cotton and maize production while simultaneously
eliminating subsidies on inputs. Nonetheless, it is not surprising that a project designed ten years ago was
somewhat "top-down" in approach, offering less scope for participation by beneficiaries than would be
considered desirable today.
9.       On balance, the Zou CARDER has proved to be a successful mechanism for project
implementation. The main implementation shortcomings were due to (i) the difficulties of the Borrower
in meeting counterpart funding commitments, which tended to slow down the project implementation rate
after 1985 and lead to a concentration of activities on the cotton sector at the expense of food crops, and
(ii) poor integration of the seed farm, research, and studies components. The main lesson learned is that
projects with many components and multiple funding agencies and beneficiary institutions, must be subject
to multi-partite reviews, preferably every two or three years, during which close attention should be paid
to the integration of components dependent on different funding sources. The shortcomings related to the
seed farm, deviation in studies implementation and uncertainties concerning the cotton-based farming



-v -
system, would not have arisen or would have been more easily resolved if there had been a tri-partite
review in 1986 or 1987.
10.      Other lessons which may be drawn from the project include the need to monitor institutional
changes introduced after project effectiveness and which run counter to stated project objectives - in this
case involving the expansion of the Zou CARDER when the project aimed to streamline the organization.
In addition, the installation of an effective system for the supply of inputs, and the marketing of
production of one crop (cotton) is bound to impact negatively, to some extent, on other crops for which
such support is not available. Attention to maize marketing arrangements, for example, might have helped
to achieve a better balance between cotton and food crop production. Satisfactory performance of
extension appears to have played an essential role in the achievement of project objectives. Nevertheless,
as the project progressed, farmers moving along the intensification process developed a certain fatigue
due to obsolete or unadapted technical messages. Adaptive research often proved inadequate to maintain
the relevancy of the message in line with farmers needs. More important factors in the ultimate success
of the project were the supply of inputs on credit and the guaranteed market outlets for cotton.






PROJECT COMPLFI1ON REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROIECT
(Credit 1314-BEN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identit
Project Name        Zou Province Rural Development Project
Credit No.          1314-BEN
RVP Unit            Africa Regional Office
Country             Republic of Benin
Sector              Agriculture
2.    Background
2.01         Benin has a population of 5.4 million (1992), growing at approximately 3.2 per cent per
annum, in a territory with a total area of 112,622 km2. Population densities are higher in the wetter south
of the country than in the north. The estimated annual per capita income in 1991 was US$400, making
Benin one of the poorest countries in the world. Urban population growth is particularly high (estimated
at over 8 per cent per annum in Cotonou) and the agro-demographic pressure on agricultural land is
acute.
2.02         During the 1970s, national resources were directed mainly towards the development of
industry and physical infrastructure to the relative neglect of agriculture and food production. The
Marxist-Leninist policy emphasized national control and self reliance, most foreign owned businesses
were nationalized and many new state enterprises were created. The first medium term development plan
(1977-1980) was used to further expand the state-owned economy. The economy performed fairly well
during the late 1970s (average growth of 5 per cent per annum), but mainly thanks to the spill-over
effects of the oil-based prosperity of Nigeria. However, by the early 1980s, falling world demand for oil
and Nigeria's ensuing economic difficulties made it essential that Benin reassess its economic strategies.
The present project was conceived at a time when it had become imperative to improve the export
performance of the economy - production of cotton, for example, first introduced successfully in 1963,
had fallen from 50,000 metric tons in 1972 to 16,000 metric tons in 1980-81.
2.03         The decade of the 1980s was a period of prolonged economic difficulty. The economy
was unable to ensure the maintenance of the standard of living of ordinary citizens (cotton farmers being
an exception). Benin suffered acute debt service problems and the country's debts had to be rescheduled
through the Paris Club mechanism. The internal banking system failed, to a large extent dragged down
by non performing loans to public sector enterprises. By the end of the decade, a vigorous adjustment
program had been introduced with the aim of reducing the size of the public sector and liberalizing the
economy. But, the economic strains of the 1980s led to growing political discontent and culminated in
the transition to a multiparty democracy, which was achieved in April 1991.



- 2 -
2.04         Despite the general economic difficulties of the 1980s, the improved performance of the
export sector, especially cotton, coupled with reduced imports, resulted in a marked improvement in the
balance of payments position. Cotton exports increased in value from FCFA 4.3 billion in 1983 to FCFA
17.9 billion in 1987. From a figure of 25 per cent in 1981-82, the current account deficit/GDP ratio fell
to 9 per cent in 1985-86 and to 6.2 per cent by 1989, and this was in spite of declining world market
prices for cotton and crude oil.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.01         The Zou Province Rural Development Project (ZRDP) was designed in 1982 in the
context of the preoccupations of the time, which were predominantly macroeconomic in nature:
addressing balance of payments deficits through rehabilitation of the cotton industry. It followed on from
two previous projects, the Zou-Borgou Cotton Project (307-BEN, of US$ 6.1 million, signed in 1972)
which was predominantly concerned with cotton development within the two specified regions, but which
had suffered from the frequent institutional upheavals and had been rather disappointing, and a Technical
Assistance Project (Cr. 716-BEN) aimed at strengthening the cotton marketing chain and preparing future
agricultural investment projects. The Zou-Borgou Cotton Project was succeeded by two projects, one
in each of the two provinces: the present Zou project (Cr. 1314-BEN), and the Borgou Province Regional
Development Project (Cr. 1127-BEN), which had similar aims and which could be regarded as a parallel
project to the ZRDP.
3.02         Objectives. The principal objectives of the Zou Province Rural Development Project were
to improve rural incomes while simultaneously increasing production of cotton and food crops and export.
The project was aimed at reversing the decline of cotton production in the Zou province through the
supply of inputs (fertilizers and insecticides mainly), strengthening agricultural services and facilitating
the processing and marketing of cotton. Over a period of five years, the project aimed at reaching 38,000
families (about half the population of the Zou province) and to increase annual production of cotton by
5,700 metric tons. Parallel improvements in food crop production were expected to occur not only
through residual effects arising from fertilizers applied to cotton, but also through improved genetic
material and better farming methods, including greater use of animal traction. Annual targets of food crop
increase were 5,200 tons of maize, 4,000 tons of groundnut, 3,300 tons of cowpeas and 400 tons of
paddy. The project also aimed to produce an additional 200 tons of tobacco per annum.
3.03         Description. The project as described in the SAR consisted of 13 different components:
(a)    Strengthening and reorganization of the Zou CARDER;
(b)    Consolidation and development of cooperatives;
(c)    Financing and improving supply of agricultural inputs (mainly fertilizers, seeds and
insecticides);
(d)   Introduction of a better primary marketing system for cotton;
(e)    Animal health care (small ruminants and oxen);
(f)    Strengthening of applied research and improved seeds for food crops and cotton;
(g)   Introduction of animal traction (300 pairs of oxen with associated equipment)
(h)    Development of 200 ha of bottomlands, rehabilitation of 100 wells and construction of
50 new ones;
(i)   Installation of a project monitoring and evaluation unit;
(j)   Improving the efficiency of SONAPRA and cotton marketing channels;
(k)    Strengthening the Ministry of Rural Development's studies and strategic planning
department;
(I)    Technical and managerial support to the cotton ginneries in the Zou province; and
(m)   A study for a possible follow-up project and a second study to improve the organization
and management of services provided by the CARDER.



- 3 -
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.01         Design. Three broad approaches for achieving the project objectives were adopted and
could be grouped as follows: (i) institutional strengthening; (ii) support to the cotton marketing channel,
and (iii) a series of complementary rural development initiatives. The project was designed to reach
38.000 families through agricultural extension, based on T&V principles. The project differed from its
predecessor in avoiding the mono-crop approach and aimed at achieving a balance between cash crops
(groundnut and cotton) and food crops (maize and cowpeas). The project concept was not notably
innovative and aimed at diffusing known techniques, although higher yielding cotton varieties were
promoted through the project. Project preparation was thorough and was carried out in Benin under the
Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 716-BEN) through SONAGRI's 1/ consulting unit.
4.02         The project was conceived ten years ago and it is not surprising that the project design
was different in style and concept from current approaches to integrated rural development. The project
had a broadly "top-down approach" and was not focused particularly either at farm or village level
participation in project design and implementation.
4.03         In assessing the project it is possible to identify some shortcomings in project design,
notably related to the insufficient attention given to environmental considerations (erosion problems) and
the sustainability of the cotton-based farming system whose neglect was as much attributable to failures
of implementation as to design weaknesses. Also, little consideration was also given to very poor access
roads situation of some enclaves in project area.
4.04         Organization. The project organization was fairly complex. In addition to the 13
components listed above, there were three external financing agencies (IDA, and the French CCCE and
FAC), and three institutions benefiting from direct support (the Zou CARDER, the MDR and
SONAPRA). The large number of components reflected the complex organizational structure of the main
implementing agency, the Zou CARDER. It had been the intention to streamline the CARDER structure
by means of the project but this was thwarted by a reorganization imposed at the national level in late
1985. Whereas the objective had been to reduce personnel in the CARDER which had 600 staff in 1983,
the personnel had grown to over 1,000 by the end of 1991.
4.05         An unforeseen organizational change took place in 1985 when SONAGRI was abolished
and replaced by SONAPRA. Initially, the division of responsibilities between the CARDERs and
SONAPRA was unclear, and for a period of time the Zou CARDER took responsibility for the
management of the cotton ginneries in the province. This became a major preoccupation of the CARDER
management and tended to reinforce the focus on cotton to the detriment of food crops. The ginneries
were returned to SONAPRA in 1987.
4.06         Despite the financial difficulties due to lack of GOB counterpart funding and freeze of
project funds after the collapse of the banking system, the CARDER was resourceful in carrying out its
mandate which for a period also included the operation of the cotton ginneries in the Zou department.
However, the effect of the financial difficulties (exacerbated also by key personnel shortages) was to give
priority to income generating cotton activities at the expense of other components and was probably the
major cause of implementation delays.
I/ Socictc Nationale de I'Agriculturm, later to become SONAPRA (Socictd nationale pour 1l Production Agricole).



-4 -
5.    Prolect Implementation
5.01         Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up. The project was appraised in November 1981.
The Credit was approved in November 1982, signed in February 1983 and became effective in September
1983. The closing date initially expected for December 1989, was extended three times till September
1992 to compensate for the delay in implementation and disbursement.
5.02         Implementation Schedule. The good performance of the project in relation to the
achievement of its main objectives (see section F), means that project implementation was, on balance,
a success. However, there were some difficulties and shortcomings. In particular implementation was
slower than planned in relation to most components except cotton. The greatest operational difficulty was
in relation to the availability of Government counterpart funding. The GOB's cash flow difficulties
contributed to a slower than planned disbursement rate and created practical implementation problems for
CARDER staff. Following the collapse of the national banking system, IDA funds in the Special Accounts
became frozen. A recurring preoccupation of supervision missions was therefore to try to ease the
counterpart funding difficulties and the permanent illiquidity situation that the project had to face. In
October 1990, the Credit Agreement was amended to increase the funding level of operating costs by
IDA. This was implemented after an interim period during which CCCE agreed to use up its remaining
credit by funding a higher proportion of costs than initially envisaged.
5.03         The components which fell short of expectations were: animal traction, livestock, rural
engineering (wells and development of bottomlands, small barrages,etc), value added processing of food
crops (which was seen as a vehicle for the advancement of women) and the development of food crops
in general. The main reasons were the poor response from the farmers and lack of skilled personnel in
the rural engineering Department of the CARDER.
5.04         Procurement. Input supplies for producers were available throughoutthe project. Bidding
and award of contracts were usually made in a timely manner, but ICB procedures proved to be lengthy
and cumbersome especially for the purchase of specialist equipment.
5.05         Project Costs. The estimated cost of the Zou Rural Development Project at appraisal was
about US$62.7 million, including an estimated farmers' contribution (in kind) of about US$22 million
(30%) and US$ 10 million from the Government as shown in Table 5B in Part III. The actual cost is
about US$67,5 million, which reflects an increase of about 8% mainly due to exchange rate fluctuations,
an estimated increase of farmers' participation and a drop of Government contribution.
5.06         Disbursement. IDA disbursements were delayed by almost three years due to delays in
implementation of the project. The closing date was extended three times. Disbursements against
commitments were authorized till February 24, 1993. The CCCE loan and FAC grant were fully
disbursed. The IDA Credit was disbursed to the amount of SDR 18.577.687 (99.4%) as of January 31,
1993, as shown in Table 3 of Part 111. In addition to payment of salaries to CARDER staff, GOB's
contribution totalled about 1,023 million FCFA (US$3.8 million) or 30% of initial commitment.
5.07         Loan Allocation. The original and revised allocation of funds for Cr. 1314-BEN are
shown in Table 5 of Part III. Two major activities not foreseen at the time of appraisal were undertaken
by the project on recommendation of the supervision missions in 1991 and in view of the considerable
undisbursed balance. The first was the establishment of two training centers for young out-of-school
farmers and for extension workers, to be subsequently taken over by the Natural Resources Management
Project and the National Agricultural Services Project respectively. The second was the purchase of
ginning equipment, in response to a serious constraint in the cotton ginning capacity in 1991/92.
Consequently, the IDA allocation for equipment was substantially increased from SDR 430,000 to SDR



- 5 -
810,000 to accommodate for setting up of the two training centers, and a new category was introduced
by amendment of the Development Credit Agreement in February 26, 1992 with an amount of SDR
780,000, for cotton ginning.
6.    Project Results
6.01         Project Objectives. The project was a success in relation to its main objectives. The
necessary market-based economic environment and policy framework were successfully introduced,
combining adequate prices for farmers with the elimination of input subsidies. After early delays, by
project year 5 the targets for cotton production within the project area had been exceeded, and by project
year 7 cotton production was 75 % above SAR projections. Projected yields were exceeded by project year
7 in the case of all crops except groundnut. The project reached 97% of the number of families initially
planned.
6.02         Physical Results. The physical targets of the project were achieved substantially as
planned (see Tables 4 and 6 in Part III and the Technical Annex). However, it should be noted that the
expansion of cotton was achieved at least partially at the expense of areas under maize, especially in
relation to the second maize crop. Less support from the research component for food crops and the
absence of assistance to farmers for marketing of food crops may have been influencing factors on the
relative performance of the project's crops. Groundnut production was adversely affected by difficulties
in the supply of seeds. Minor crops such as rice and tobacco were adversely affected, respectively, by
the slow progress in bottomland development and the loss of market outlets for brown tobacco.
6.03         The livestock component, including the introduction of animal traction, seems to have
evoked only a limited response from the intended beneficiaries of the project, and was hampered by
difficulties with the credit arrangements for the purchase of the pairs of oxen and their equipment.
Although 300 pairs were scheduled to be active after 5 years, only 269 were functioning after 9 years.
After very high mortality levels early in the project, strict criteria were imposed for the selection of
farmers to be supported by the project. The credit terms and mandatory contribution by beneficiary
farmers, probably also rendered animal traction financially unattractive to farmers. Additional possible
reasons for the shortcomings of this component are the inappropriate selection of animals (resistance to
disease, etc.,) and inadequate training of farmers in the use of animal traction. The slow uptake of the
animal traction component (including the shortage of oxen teams for destumping in the northern area) has
had at least one undesirable environmental effect by encouraging more clearing of new land rather than
intensification (which is made possible by animal traction).
6.04         The project components (bottomland development and wells) associated with the DGR
were very slow to start. This may be explained partly by shortage of certain skilled personnel, lack of
continuity of the national staff assigned to the Department, and partly by difficulties in obtaining key
items of specialist equipment through the international competitive bidding procedures of the Bank. The
activities aimed at developing on-farm processing of food crops, through support to women's groups, was
also administered by the DGR and, similarly, was very slow to make progress and seems not to have
received due attention.
6.05          The extension service was organized on the "training and visits' system and was
associated with contact groups (unites de suivi) of farmers, all at a similar level of advancement.
Although the cotton technology was well assimilated, it became apparent during the course of the project
that there was a certain amount of "fatigue" associated with the repetitive nature of the technical messages
relating to cotton, with a consequent loss of interest on the part of the farmers. Attempts were made to
redress this, following supervision missions, by means of additional and improved training of
extensionists. A training center, for school leavers aspiring to be farmers, has also been set up to promote
remunerative but sustainable agricultural systems with better integration of food and cash crops. However,



- 6 -
the lack of information and of new technical messages on food crops (which stemmed from weaknesses
in the research program, as noted above) probably contributed to the lack of interest of participating
farmers. It may also be noted that once the key appropriate technical messages had been identified, the
role of extension became relevant. Overall, the extension system as a management tool performed well
with continuous training and regular upgrading. Results are particularly visible on cotton and food crops
grown by farmers with the lowest yields. The components of the project associated more directly with
cotton production were, in general, accorded more attention and were successfully implemented. The
supply of inputs on credit, the collection, processing and marketing of the cotton crop and the transfer
of the technology were all effective.
6.06         The SAR envisaged an evolution of the village cooperative groups towards a high degree
of autonomy from state institutions, in particular concerning the management of inputs (including credit
recovery) and the primary marketing of cotton. The "top-down' approach of the project doubtless
contributed to the slow progress in this direction, but several cooperatives have made significant though
belated progress during the past two years and are now managing their own inputs and primary cotton
marketing to a large extent. They remain handicapped by lack of training in accounting and a lack of
medium term credit for such needs as transport and storage facilities. Field visits carried out by the PCR
mission confirmed these concerns and a desire on the part of farmers for more assistance with marketing
of food crops such as maize. This suggests that slower progress in food crop production derives, to some
extent from difficulties experienced in marketing food crops.
6.07         The most notable failure of the project in terms of both design and implementation was
the Za-Kpota seed farm which was designed to provide improved seeds for maize and groundnut. The
choice of the site had already been made at the time of SAR. Unfortunately the 65 ha site is characterized
by mediocre soil quality, steep slopes and an acute shortage of water. The soils are inappropriate for the
cultivation of groundnut, and seed production had to be abandoned in 1987 and delegated to the farmers
themselves. Over 9 years, the average annual seed production was only 47 tons of maize and 16 tons of
groundnut, with average yields respectively of 600-800 kg/ha and 300 kg/ha. There appears to be no clear
explanation for the decision to remain on this site, although the glaring shortcomings of the site had
become apparent early in the project. Under these circumstances the personnel assigned to the farm
appear to have done their best but were placed in an invidious position.
6.08         Institutional support from the project to the MDR (the parent ministry of the CARDERs)
at national level was focused in the DEP and was financed by FAC. Apart from the more routine tasks
of data collection, monitoring and planning, the DEP was supposed to carry out, under project funding,
two key studies, one on the CARDERs organization and methods of intervention, and one on a possible
follow-on project. The former, an 8-month study, was conceived in the SAR (November 1982) as a
means of improving the efficiency of the CARDERs, and the Zou was seen as a pioneering CARDER
where new approaches could be tested on the farm and, where successful, diffused to other CARDERs
in the country. However, the terms of reference of the study, contained in the Project File (February
1883) differed from the SAR concept and envisaged a very limited role for the CARDER in this activity.
In practice the technical assistance team did not carry out the initial study but embarked on a four-year
research program involving little collaboration with the CARDER. Moreover, the team was based in
Cotonou and attached to the DRA. As a result, the research and development unit at Bohicon in the Zou
CARDER, was left with inadequate resources. Some benefits did arise from the research efforts
(introduction of improved varieties and dissemination of techniques allowing for greater farmer self-
sufficiency) but, it is clear that a major failure in the organization of the project was the poor integration



of the research component with other activities 1/. A specific omission of the research component was
the failure to recruit an expert agronomist to be based at Niaouli whose tasks, as defined in the Project
File, were to work on food crops, and to consider inter alia soil erosion issues and the long term effects
of the cotton farming system on the fertility of the soil.
6.09          The second study, for a follow-on project to the ZRDP, budgeted with 29 months of
consultancy time, was supposed to have been undertaken through the DEP in the third year of the project.
It was intended to pave the way for an extension of the ZRDP, incorporating more farmers and building
on the results of the applied research. No such coordinated study involving the three funding agencies
took place, although a study was conducted with a view to preparing a separate FAC-funded regional
project in the Zou department, to be implemented independently of the CARDER. Two factors may be
cited as having played a part in this: first, FAC funding was in the form of grant aid and therefore not
subject to the same supervision as that provided by CCCE and IDA, and, second, the absence of a tri-
partite, mid-term review which might have obviated such a divergence of views.
6.10          Financial Performance. In general, and in terms of the indicators selected at the time
of SAR, the project results have been good and are reflected in an ERR identical to that estimated in the
SAR (22%) despite the lower economic price of cotton. The greater production of cotton compensated
for the lower international prices and the slower implementation rate in crops other than cotton during
the first five years. The financial statements are given in Annex 2.
6.11          Impact of Project. The excellent performance of cotton implies that the macroeconomic
impact of the project was very positive, helping the external account during a critical period. There is
no doubt also that incomes of participating farmers have been substantially better than they would have
been without the project. The number of target beneficiaries attained 97% of target by PY 8. In practice
the project reached all cotton farmers, since it was no longer rewarding to grow cotton outside of the new
system, although some may have participated informally through links with family members who were
official participants. Farm budget analyses show that project results have been more favorable in the
north of the project area owing to better availability of land relatively less depleted of organic matter than
in the south.
7.     Project Sustainability
7.01          Sustainability needs to be considered at two levels: sustainability of the institutional
mechanisms put in place and supported by the project on the one hand, and the sustainability of the
farming system on the other.
7.02          While there is likely to be some institutional uncertainty in the wake of the on-going
agricultural services restructuration process, no negative impact on cotton production is considered likely
as a result of the closure of the project. Indeed cotton production and yields seem to continue growing
in the Zou province 2/, and this is becoming a cause for concern owing to limited ginning capacity.
SONAPRA is functioning well and according to broadly commercial principles. The project has helped
to create a favorable economic environment based on liberal market principles and without input
subsidies. With the increasing transfer of responsibility to the cooperatives, a gradual diminution of the
role of the CARDER is likely. Its role will remain, however, in accordance with the principles of the
Government's recent policy declaration (Lettre de Declaration de Politique de Developpement Rural)
j/  These comments relate to FAC funded research in the context of the preent project and in particular in relation to food crop.
It should be noted that French funded research efforts at the national and regional (Wedt African) level have been instrumental
in introducing high yielding cotton varieties and have made a substantial contribution to the performance of this crop.
2/  See the technical annex for forecast.



- 8 -
which retains (though not exclusively) for the CARDERs certain important functions (e.g. extension and
support to producer organizations), and it also reserves for them the role of coordination of all external
assistance. A restructuring effort is being pursued by MDR since 1989 and has led to the preparation of
a national restructuring of agricultural services program supported by most donors. It aims at helping the
reorganization of the CARDERs through the transitional period of retrenchment in the public sector, and
at strengthening the Ministry of Rural Development with enhanced responsibility in coordinating the
CARDERs and in the implementation of national policies through their public functions, with financing
being progressively taken care of by the national budget to ensure better sustainability.
7.03         Whereas continued regionally-based initiatives in the Zou are to be welcomed, a
consensus among donors and with GOB on the approach and articulation between regional projects and
national services, is still difficult to find. CARDERs have expanded in the past beyond their original
mandate and carried out tasks which should and will be entrusted to the private sector. However they
have proved to be a successful mechanism for project implementation.
7.04         With regard to the long term sustainability of the farming system being applied, the issue
requires more in depth studies and research in view of the degradation of soils through erosion or excess
depletion of organic matter. It is to be hoped that the land management approach under the Natural
Resources Management Project (Cr. 2344-BEN), will address effectively the possible negative aspects
of the current cotton farming system employed in the Zou and neighboring provinces.
8.    Bank's Performance
8.01          The absence of a mid-term review contributed to the poor coordination of external
donors. The Bank's awareness of the weaknesses of the research component and the difficulties of the
seed farm also seems to have been slow to develop. The seed farm received no mention in supervision
reports until December 1986, and then only in the form of a comment on the quality of the technical
assistance. However, the supervision of the project was conscientious and when difficulties arose in
relation to counterpart funding and the collapse of the banking system, the Bank responded promptly and
effectively in concert with the CCCE.
8.02         The Bank was not able to influence the organizational changes which took place in 1985
and did not oppose the expansion of the CARDER which may be regarded as running counter to the
intended objectives expressed in the SAR and Project File. However, these reorganizations were imposed
at the national level and would have been difficult to block on ground of their impact on a regional
project. Similarly, retention by the Borrower of qualified staff was not adequately addressed through the
credit conditionality and supervision missions could not prevent staff changes, although staff nomination
is part of Government policy and is difficult to address.
8.03         The Bank was flexible enough to permit three closing date extensions to compensate for
delays in project implementation and disbursement for causes not directly related to project management
performance. It also permitted, towards the end of the project, to slightly reorient the use of the
undisbursed balance to finance the establishment of two young farmers training centers and the purchase
of equipment to solve a critical cotton ginning constraint.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.01         The main weakness of Borrower performance was the failure to meet its counterpart
funding commitments. This difficulty was, however, the result of macroeconomic problems and was not
project specific. The CARDER, through its cotton marketing revenues, showed resourcefulness in coping
with the cash flow problems and was able to keep the project running in spite of them.



- 9 -
9.02         The Borrower cooperated well in project preparation. However, the reorganization of the
CARDERs in 1985 may be regarded as largerly counterproductive, and the rapid turnover of senior
project management staff (5 directors general during the course of the project) created problems of
continuity. Nevertheless, in general, the project management performance was considered satisfactory,
the Borrower was conscientious in creating an environment for project success, and the necessary
elimination of subsidies and liberalization of markets was brought about after only slight delays. The
supply of inputs and crop marketing were handled well, and when bottlenecks developed (for example
in ginning capacity) measures were taken to remedy them.
10.   Project Relationship
10.01        Relationships between the Bank, the Borrower and project personnel were in general
excellent. Supervision missions received full support and good cooperation from the Borrower, as well
as from the CCCE and FAC. However, in the latter case (and with the notable exception of the technical
assistance assigned to the CARDER's monitoring and evaluation unit), coordination was poor, largely
due to its independent approach.
11.   Consulting Serices
11.01        The consulting services provided under the project appear to have been adequate, with
unsatisfactory personnel replaced when necessary. Communication between the technical assistance
personnel associated with the research component and the CARDER appears to have been poor. This
problem was linked more to the general difficulties associated with the research component (see para.
6.08 above). Technical assistance for training in extension performed well, as did the expert attached to
the CARDER's monitoring and evaluation unit.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.01        The initial project documentation was comprehensive and thorough. It appears to have
provided a good basis for project management. The monitoring and evaluation unit of the CARDER
provided a useful support service to the project and supplied in general the data required. However, the
ritual generation of quarterly reports represented a considerable analytical effort, some of which should
have been more profitably devoted to specific issues. The accounting system of the project was adequate
with respect to disbursement categories, but was not adequate in terms of cost accounting by project
components, as shown in the Project File and the SAR. In particular the CARDER management had very
limited financial information on the FAC-funded components.






- I1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1314-BEN)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE I/
I.    Project Description and Objectives
The Zou Province Rural Development Project, which became effective in September 1983, was
co-financed by the World Bank (IDA credit), the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), the
Caisse Frangaise de Developpement (CFD, formerly known as the CCCE) and the Government of Benin,
with substantial farmer participation. The overall cost of the project is assessed at CFAF 21,772 million.
The Project was meant to reach 38,000 rural families, and was expected to increase cotton
production by 5,200 tonnes, groundnut by 4,000 tonnes, cowpeas by 3,300 tonnes, rice paddy by 4,000
and tobacco by 200 tonnes (after five years). The main Project objective was to increase the income of
the rural population by:
*     increasing the production of food crops, and
*     increasing export crops.
In order to achieve these goals, special attention was given to:
*     training and agricultural extension
*     strengthening cooperatives
*     providing agricultural inputs
*     transforming agricultural products
*     improving animal health care and the productivity of cattle breeding
*     adaptive research (cotton and food crops)
*     seed production
*     promoting animal traction
*     bottomland development
*     improving water supply through tubewells and by rehabilitating wells.
The Project was supposed to last five years, but was extended a few times until 1992 so that
accomplishments made during the first phase could be consolidated and other activities developed.
I/    This report was written by the CARDER-Zou, the project executing agency, on behalf of the
Borrower.



- 12 -
II.    Project Design and Oreanisation
2.1    Project Design
The three main themes of the Project design were as follows:
*     institutional strengthening of the CARDER-Zou
*     development of the cotton "filiere"
*     strengthening socio-economic infrastructure in rural areas.
Target groups were trained using the training and visit extension method.
The Project design did not foresee the possible effect of the development of cotton on the
environment (soil erosion and deforestation in order to expand the area, etc.) neither did it focus on other
constraints to agricultural production (health, rural tracks etc.).
2.2    Organisation
The Project's executing agency was the CARDER; however, the streamlining of the CARDER,
which had been envisaged by the Project, never materialised because of the Government's unexpected
interference (change in organisational structure and frequent reassignment of key personnel involved in
the project implementation). Furthermore, the unclear relationship between the CARDER and SONAPRA
with regard to the management of the cotton ginneries and agricultural inputs, did not improve matters.
The financial difficulties caused by the Government's inability to provide counterpart funds and the freeze
on all Project's assets following the collapse of the national banking system did not facilitate project
implementation either.
III.   Results and Project Impact
The Zou Project had a definite impact on the technical, social and economic conditions of the
farmers.
3.1    Technical Aspect
The level of training received by the agents clearly improved due to the training and visit system,
and the fact that training was provided at all levels. The number of extension agents (AVA) should have
reached 200 in 1988, in line with Project objectives, but rather dropped consistently; in 1984 there were
172 such agents while in 1992 this number fell to 148. The number of Chefs d'Explotation (CE) trained
during the same period increased from 12,768 to 36,000, which represents 97% of Project objectives.
When comparing the number of CE reached under the Project to the number of extension agents, the ratio
changed from 74 CE/AVA to 243 CE/AVA at the end of the Project. Improved technology enabled to
achieve the following results:
3.1.1. Crop Production
One of the Project's objectives was to intensify production of the main crops, i.e., cotton, maize,
cowpeas, groundnut, rice and tobacco. The Project had envisaged the intensification of growing methods
without increasing the cultivated areas, apart from those areas used to grow cotton, rice and tobacco,
whose sizes were respectively 6,000, 300 and 350 ha. The intensification activities included the gradual
use of fertilisers, improved seeds for maize, groundnut, rice and tobacco, and insecticides for cotton and
cowpeas.



- 13 -
(a)    Groundnut
More than 60% of the area used to grow groundnut is at the first stage of intensification. The
Project's objective to transform 50% of the groundnut cultivation area for the purposes of
intensified growth (stages 1 and 2 of intensification) was reached at 120% in 1989. That same
year, yields in the intensified stage reached 86% of Project objective (640 kg/ha against the
objective of 740 kg/ha) and the average yield reached at 90% (581 kg/ha against the objective
of 650 kg). One should note that the TS 32-1 variety selected to meet Project needs, did not
yield the expected results because of its sensitivity to fungal disease.
(b)    Cotton
Of the six crops whose production was to be intensified under the Project, cotton exceeded by
far expectations. In terms of area, objectives were exceeded by 40%, yields by 10% and
production by more than 50%.
(c)    Cowpeas
Thirty per cent of the area under cowpeas cultivation was intensified against the objective of 50%
set by the Project. Were intensification was possible, the target average yield of 589 kg/ha was
achieved at 100% (594 kg/ha according to CARDER-Zou statistics).
The modest results obtained with respect to the set objectives of area to be intensified are due to
the fact that at the beginning of the Project, treatment was rare, or was done with oil, given the
lack of products and equipment. In 1989, almost 30% of farmers treated their cowpea crop.
Half of them, covering almost 30% of the area, did two or three treatments, while the other half
did only one, diluted the treatment with oil, or did not administer any treatment at all.
However, according to the CARDER's statistics, production objectives achieved over eight years
were met by 99.5% with an average annual production of 14,500 tonnes, representing an increase
of more than 40% compared to the production at the start of the Project.
(d)    Maize
The intensification programme was rather successful. Almost 12% of the area is at level 1 or
2 against a target of 13%, and the average yield of all the levels combined exceeded forecasts.
Production targets for the first five years (243,000 t) were met at 99%, and at 88% of targets for
the following three years. Overall 94 % (406,000 t against 431,000 t over eight years) was met
with an average yield of more than 800 kg/ha, i.e., 112% of the target of 761 kg/ha. Targetted
yields for stage 2, which is a more intensive stage, were never reached because a larger amount
of fertiliser was required and because of the poor soil quality.
(e)    Rice
The average yield achieved after eight years exceeded target by 185%. The increase in the areas
(over eight years) was slower than anticipated (72% of target) and only 16% during the first five-
year phase. It was only in the second three-year phase that the targetted production was reached
at 120% when the objective was reviewed at a lower level.
It is important to note that the direct involvement of Project staff, without the effective
participation of the farmers, hindered the good use of bottomland development. Judging by the



- 14 -
quantity of rice produced from the bottomlands, this would be an activity worth supporting;
however, husking is still the main problem.
(f)    Tobacco
During the first phase of the Project, and despite the degeneration of the Paraguay variety, the
average target yield was reached at 108%. Nevertheless, the production targets were only met
by 50% due to the smaller increase in the area under cultivation. Although reviewed with lower
expectations during the second phase of the Project, these areas had still not been achieved during
the last three years. A solution for tobacco production in the Zou region should be sought, but
not as part of the Project's activities (transfer of activities to private companies).
3.1.2. Cattle Breeding
Project activities with regard to cattle breeding included improving animal health care and
husbandry for cattle as well as small ruminants.
At the end of the Project the number of "demonstration herds" totalled 150, which represents
about 10% of total cattle stock. This implies that sanitary treatment was being carried out on this
scale and that some effort was being made to improve animal husbandry. These activities made
it possible to reduce the adult death rate to 13% and that of calves in the "demonstration herd"
to 31%. The fertility rate of the cattle increased to 54%.
Small Ruminants
Activities are limited to the administration of treatment against parasites for the 23 "demonstration
herd".
3.1.3. Animal Traction
It was envisaged that 300 pieces of animal traction equipment would be set up; by the end of the
Project 308 had been set up, 152 during the first phase of the Project (between 1983 and 1989) and 156
during the extended period (1989-1992). The constraints to the initial development of this component
at the departmental level, can be explained by the very high personal contribution demanded from
farmers and the absence of destumping assistance. The introduction of this facility permitted to the
beneficiaries to grow the areas under cultivation by 3 ha in 1984 and 7 ha in 1992.
Other factors, for example, the poor selection of cattle (in terms of resistance to disease, the
young age of the animals, etc.) and the unsatisfactory training of farmers in animal traction were to blame
for the poor results recorded.
3.1.4. The Provision of Agricultural Inputs
There was also a marked improvement in the use of agricultural inputs, for example, fertiliser
use jumped from 1,820 tonnes in 1983 to 6,643 tonnes in 1992; and pesticides from 66,875 litres to
410,806 during the same period. Fertilisers were always available during the course of the Project,
especially where coton was concerned.
Bidding and contract awards were carried out in a timely manner, although procedures were often
long and cumbersome, causing delays in the supply of inputs.



- 15 -
3.2   Social Aspects
Works and Infrastructure
The Zou Project:
*     succeeded in bottomland management: 136 ha out of the 200 forecast, i.e., 68% of set
targets;
*     created 50 boreholes, meeting objectives by 100%;
*     rehabilitated 32 wells out of the 100 projected;
*     constructed 7 storage facilities; and
*     procured 8 pieces of transformation equipment.
These activities resulted in improved bottomland management with the promotion of rice and fewer water
control problems.
The results would have had a more substantial impact if this component had been implemented
without delay; unfortunately, this was not possible because the necessary equipment was not available.
It is also worth noting that the absence of office buildings at both the central management level and at
field level had a negative impact on the normal development of this component.
3.3   Employment
Employment was generated by the Project for farmers, agricultural workers, transport companies
and labourers.
3.4   Economic Aspect
In terms of economic development, the Zou Rural Development Project enabled farmers to:
*     improve their productivity by using animal traction and applying modern technology to
cultivate crops; and
*     increase their income; the technical expertise acquired by the farmers who produced
maize, cowpeas and cotton, in particular, made it possible for their income to increase
substantially.
3.5   Farmers' Organisations
It should be noted that no particular emphasis was placed on this component during Project
design. The Project developed through the cooperative structures which previously existed (GRVC, GF,
GV, 4D-Clubs)l/; however, during its implementation, efforts were made to:
(i)    Create and rehabilitate the cooperative or pre-cooperative structures.  The Zou
department presently has 445 GV, 399 GVC, 63 GF and 21 4D clubs which are all
operational. At present, there is a tendency to regroup the structures into a Producers'
Union both at the district level and the 'sous-prefecture' level. The long-term objective
is to create a framework for dialogue whose focus would be to resolve mutual problems
faced by these structures. There are presently 91 Unions Communales des Producteurs
1/    GV = Groupement villageois, GF = Groupement feminin, GVC = Groupement villageois k
vocation cooperative.



- 16 -
(UCP) at the departmental level and 10 Unions des Producteurs au niveau des Sous-
Prefectures (UPSP).
(ii)   Functional Literacy: The different activities undertaken by these structures involve the
functional literacy of their members within the framework of operations linked to the
marketing of agricultural products, particularly cotton.
3.6    Other Project Impacts
Socio-economic Impact: About 20% of the households, approximately 19,000, within the
Department depend primarily on cotton for their livelihood. Assuming three farmers per family unit, this
means that approximately 57,000 farmers are employed in cotton production for a good part of the year.
For cotton alone, the minimum revenue is CFAF 60,000 per farm. In addition to this, revenue is
generated from marketing operations, employment of labourers, watchmen, etc.
Cotton factories use more manual labour now than they did in the past. In the same way,
transport companies carry a higher volume of freight than in the past. Ginning factories had a 12%
ginning capacity, but, with the implementation of the Zou Project, and, to some extent, the Borgou
Project, previously abandoned factories were refurbished. The flow of cotton generated a considerable
development of private transport firms which were able to improve profitability of their fleets through
more efficient use of their operational capacity.
Ecological Impact: With the increased area under cotton cultivation, there was a more marked
degradation of soils in the southern part of the Department. Likewise, in the northern part of the
Department where cotton growth was increased the most, deforestation is rampant. Farmers pressure on
gazetted forests in search of good land to expand agriculture is strong, and bush fires are started late.
IV.   Problems and Weak Points
Problems and weak points were due to the design, organisation and implementation of the Project.
4.1    Project Design
The weaknesses in project design are most obvious in the areas of health and road accessibility,
both of which were the main constraints to improved production throughout the Project.
Insufficient attention was given to other aspects, such as environmental issues (i.e., the problem
of soil erosion), the sustainability of the agricultural system based on cotton, and the construction of
certain buildings for the CARDER staff (offices, housing, etc.).
With respect to Project design, some inadequacies have been reveiled between the Project's
objectives with regard to food crops and smallholders limited possibilities, in terms of access to credit
and marketing facilities.
4.2.   Proiect Organisation
The fact that there were several financing agencies (IDA, CFD and FAC) did not allow the
synchronisation of the various disbursements for the same activity or for complementary activities; this
created serios problems for project implementation.



- 17 -
The failure to streamline the CARDER's structure within the framework of the Project, which
was due to the often unexpected interference of the Government, ended up in the creation of
organisational structures which were not in line with Project's objectives.
The lack of clarity on the responsibility for the ginning factories often disrupted the CARDER's
organisational structure, and thus hindered the Project. Although these factories are no longer the
CARDER's property, emphasis was still placed on cotton production at the expense of food crops because
cotton commercialization offers a stable source of revenue for the CARDER.
4.3    Proiect Implementation
*     Irregularity and inadequacy of counterpart funds from the Government;
*     The poor integration of FAC-financed components, particularly the seed farm and research
components, into other Project activities;
*     The freeze of IDA fund following the collapse of the national banking system;
D     The cumbersome procedures adhered to for disbursements at the national level which prevented
the various funds earmarked for the Project from being mobilised in a timely manner.
V.    Conclusion and Recommendations
Following this analysis of the impact of the Zou Rural Development Project, it is clear that the
main objectives were met, particularly with respect to agricultural extension through the adoption of
various extension messages by the majority of farmers. However, the intensification package on food
crops, which many farmers were already familiar with, were not strictly applied due to financial
difficulties and lack of credit. Furthermore, the absence of adequate working facilities was a handicap
which hanpered the implementation of various activities (i.e., the construction of offices and housing for
the field agents).
In light of what has already been stated, the following recommendations might be incorporated
into a new Project:
*     Target groups should be associated with the identification of Project activities so that they
are more focussed on the realities of rural life;
*     Credit availability should be more simple to enable smallholders to have access to credit
facilities;
*     Other crops which offer potential benefits to farmers (i.e., maize, cassava, etc.) should
be promoted;
*     Disbursement procedures should be improved;
*     Programs of functional literacy, drinking water supply, bottomland and watershed
management, expansion of animal traction and the development of cattle breeding should
be pursued and strengthened.






- 19 -
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1314 -BEN)
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Credits
Title              Purpose             Year of approval   Status
Cr. 307-BEN        To stimulate              1972        cancelled
Zou-Borgou         cotton production
Cotton project
Cr. 716-BEN        To strengthen             1977         Completed
Technical          SONAGRI &
Assistance project   CARDER and to
prepare new
projects
Cr. 1127-BEN       Improving rural           1981         Completed
Borgou Rural      incomes and
Development        promoting agric.
project and        exports
Cr. 1877-1-BEN                               1986        under supervision
Second Borgou
Rural Dev. project
CR. 2285-BEN       Reorganize agr.           1991        Effective
Agr. Services      dev. institution for                   November 1992
Restructuring      better provision of
Project            services



- 20 -
2. Project Tunetble
Item                         Date planned      Date revised   Date acul
Identification                                                  i1078
Preparation                                                   1980/1982
Appraisal mission                                               11/81
Credit negotiation
Board approval                                                  11/82
Credit signature                                                2/83
Credit effectiveness                                            9/83
Project completion           06/89                              09/92
Credit closing               12/89                 12/90        01/93
12/91
09/92



- 21 -
3. Schedule of Disburents
Actual Cumulative
FiscaL Year and          Estimate             (SOR OOOs)      (USS 000s)                   Actual as X
Quarter          Cumulative (SOR                                                        of Estimate
OOOs)
FY 83         3                                           0         0             A
4                  1,356                   0         0             A             0.0
FY 84         1                                         800       840             A
2                  2,478                 800        840            A             32.3
3                                      1,113       1,170           A
4                  3,600               2,957       3,090           A             82.1
FY 85         1                                       4,393      4,560            A
2                  5,002               4,679       4,840           A             93.5
3                                      4,886       5,040           A
4                  6,311               6,455       6,600           A            102.3
FY 86         1                                       6,798      6,950            A
2                  7,948               7,028       7,200           A             88.3
3                                      7,258       4,460           A
4                  9,818               9,258       9,790           A             94.3
FY 87         1                                       9,375      9,930            A
2                 11,828               9,780      10,420           A             83.7
3                                     10,373      11,170           A
4                 13,971              11,900      13,150           A             86.3
FY 88         1                                      12,317      13,690           A
2                 15,661              12,692      14,190           A             81.0
3                                     12,970      14,570           A
4                 17,344              13,360      15,110           A             77.0
FY 89         1                                      13,722      15,580           A
2                 18,046              13,868      15,770           A             76.8
3                                     13,888      15,800           A
4                 18,700              14,215      16,210           A             76.0
FY 90         1                                      14,469      16,530           A
2                 18,700              15,042      17,260           A             80.4
3                                     15,249      17,530           A
4                 18,700              15,302      17,600           A             81.8
FY 91         1                                      15,608      18,020           A
2                 18,700              15,935      18,490           A             85.2
3                                     16,167      18,810           A
4                 18,700              16,167      18,810           A             86.5
FY 92         1                                      16,320      19,020           A
2                 18,700              16,678      19,520           A             89.2
3                                     17,441      20,580           A
4                 18,700              17,598      20,730           A             94.1
FY 93         1                  18,700              17,600      20,890           A            94.4
2                 18,700              18,481      22,030           A             98.8
3                 18,700              18,578      22,170           A             99.4



- 22 -
4. Proiect IJtlewmntation
Estimated
Indicators                 SAN         Actual                Cohents
PT 5        Py 9
Extension                                                             PY 0 a 18.000
Project farmers (number)              38,000      36,816
Extensionists (AVA)                    200          149
Cooperative movement
GRVC-GVC (Evolution)                   550          488                 extension
GV and others (Addit.)                  -           446       cotton marketing procurement
Ioputs
Improved seeds maize/year              15 t        37t
Improved seeds groundnut/year         24 t         7.9 t      from farmers only after 1987
FertiLizers                          3,300 t      6,223 t
Insecticides                        290,000 l   364,000 1
Sprayer cumul./year                   4,214        8,175
Oxen/ploughs cumul./year               300          269
DGR Works
Lowland development                   200 ha       136 ha
New wells (borehole)/year               50           50
Rehabilitation welts/year              100          32
Stores                                  7            7
Food crop processing equipment          11           4
(units).
Note: Greater detail is available in the amex.



- 23 -
5. Project C06ts and Financing!
A. Project Costs (IDA Credit)
Item                        SAR                      Actual
(US$ OOOs) _/  (SDR 000s)  (US$ OOs)k/  (SDR 000s)
la  Vehicles                             1,797       1,680        2,333        1,955
lb  Equipment and furniture                449         420          964          808
Ic  Operating costs                      3,380       3,160         5,967       5,000
Id  Technical assistance                 2,246       2,100         3,425       2,870
le  Consultancies                          235         220           26           22
2   DEP (MDR) Technical                   1,016        950         1,298       1,088
Assistance
3   CNCA (Credit)                          278         260           138         116
Input financing
4a  Additional needs                     2,898       2,710         1,724       1,445
4b  Working capital (impoit              4,706       4,400         5,298       4,440
funding)
5   Initial Deposit                        856         800
6   PPF Advance refund                     288         270           64           54
7   Unallocated                           1,850      1,730
8   Factory equipment and spares                                    930          780
a/
TOTAL                               20,000      18,700        22,170      18,578
a/ New category introduced in February 92 by amendment of DCA
b/ At the average exchange rate of ISDR = 1,193 US$
c/ SAR exchange rate of ISDR = 1,069 US$



- 24 -
B. Project Financing
Source         Planned (Cr1314-BEN)
Agreement            Actual
(M.FCFA) (US$000s)  (M.FCFA) (US$ 000s)
IDA (18.7 SDRs)           6,800  20.0        7,162(a)   22.2 a/
CCCE                      2,210  6.5         2,210      8.2
FAC                       1,258  3.7         1,300      4.8
GOB                       3,383  9.9         1,023      3.8
Farmers                   7,684  22.6        7,700(b)   28.5
TOTAL                     21,335  62.7      21,772      64.5
(a) Differences due to exchange rate fluctuation.
(b) Not verifiable.



- 25 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benerits
Indicators    Appraisal  Actual   Actual  Actual PY    Actual
Estimate    PY 5     PY 9        5/       PY 9/
PY S                        Estimate   Estimate
PY5       PY5
Benericiaries     38,000     18,100   36,800        48          97
Output ('000 t)
Seed cotton           10.8      13.7     32.7       127       303
Maize                 51.4      36.5     64.7       71        126
Groundntits           32.4      17.5     33.7       54        104
Cowpeas               13.5      10.4     18.8       77        139
Rice                   1.1       0.3      1.3       25        121
Tobacco                0.4       0.1      0.02      25          5
Area ('000 ha)
Seed cotton           12.5      15.4     37.3       123       298
Maize                 77.0      47.7     75.7       62         98
Groundnut             46.0      33.6     52.5       73        114
Cowpeas               29.0      24.1     36.6       83        126
Rice                   1.2       0.1      0.6        10        49
Tobacco                0.7       0.2      0.1       34          7
Yield (kg/ha)
Seed cotton          864       891      877         103       102
Maize                667       766      856         115       128
Groundnut            704       520      642         74         91
Cowpeas              465       433      513         93        110
Rice                 916    2,250    2,254         245        246
Tobacco              571       417      400         73         70



- 26 -
B. Economic Impact
SAR Estimate       Estimated Actual
Economic Rate of Return             22%                  22%
1.    Economic rate of return. The economic rate of return of the project estimated on the basis of
the data available approximately half way through the 20 year project "life" is the same (22%) as that
estimated in the SAR, which is coincidental. Although the economic price of cotton fell it was balanced
by greater production of cotton and of other crops than expected. The tables in Annex 2 show the basis
of the calculation of the ERR.
Notes on the economic analysis
2.    Project level costs and disbursements. Owing to the form in which historical accounting data
were available to the mission, it was not possible to follow exactly the SAR economic analysis. The main
difficulty was that project costs were only available by disbursement category and that Government costs
(project operating expenditures) had to be estimated by grossing up the relevant categories of IDA credit
disbursements according to financing percentages (which were also modified in the course of the project).
CCCE disbursements were available by category for the whole disbursement period but a breakdown by
component was not available for individual years. However, total phased disbursements by year were
available. The proportion of the CCCE financing for purchase of farm level inputs (and which had to be
eliminated to avoid double counting) had therefore to be estimated pro-rata without knowing the detailed
phasing of these costs. Only a simple phased schedule of expenditure of disbursements was available from
FAC. Project support costs after 1992 were assumed to be maintained at levels only slightly lower than
those of the last year of the project (at 420,000,000 F CFA per annum in 1991 prices) reflecting ongoing
CARDER operating costs related to extension and support to cooperative groups.
3.    Other cost and price levels. The analysis was conducted in 1991 prices. In the case of the
incremental benefits of the project, the physical incremental production data which were provided by the
CARDER were valued in terms of international prices (World Bank current price level series, historical
and projected, except for rice for which an FAO series for parboiled Thai rice, typically imported into
Benin, was used). Economic price calculations for project benefits were made in current terms (and
subsequently adjusted to 1991 prices using the G-5 MUV index), whereas incremental costs were
estimated in 1991 terms throughout. This procedure was followed for convenience and in order to benefit
from and be consistent with the economic analysis of the parallel Borgou Province rural development
project (Cr. 1127-BEN). Incremental farm level input costs were based on data provided by the project
monitoring and evaluation unit. Labor costs were estimated using the man-day estimates per hectare
according to the SAR but modified to take into account the stage of development actually achieved by
the farms concerned.
4.    Base line. A difficulty encountered was that production levels of all crops except cotton and
cowpeas during PYI were estimated to be below those assumed in the SAR. In order to avoid the
implausible result that the project was responsible for a decline in all these crops in the first year, the
base figure for estimating incremental production was taken to be the lower of the SAR figure and the
PYI figure as recorded by the project monitoring and evaluation staff.
5.    Other assumptions. In general other assumptions (eg regarding ginning rates, loss rates and
haulage costs) followed those of the Borgou PCR, modified where appropriate for differences in distances
and the one year difference in the base year for analysis - 1991 as opposed to 1990.



- 27 -
C. Studies
Purpose as defined at       Status           Impact of Studies
appraisal
CARDER organization  Improve the efficiency  Completed but TOR   No impact in terms of
and intervention     of the CARDER         and objectives differed  improvement of
methods                                    from those at appraisal  CARDER efficiency.
Some impact on
adaptive research
results
Preparation of a     Consolidate project   Completed but TOR     No impact on possible
follow-up project    results and propose   and objectives        continuation of
extension of activities   different from those at  CARDER activities
to increase number of   appraisal          under a new project,
beneficiaries                              but preparation of a
separate independent
regional project
Comments on Studies Component. Both studies, financed by the FAC, considerably diverted from the
initial objectives and scope, as defined during appraisal. No coordination between the financing agencies
took place and very poor integration did occur in addressing CARDER constraints and activities (para
1.27).



- 28 -
7. Status of Covenants
SoEtio/                  Decnrition                                   SAmu
mcInt
4.01                     Accounting practices,keeping of records nd   Complied with in general but detailed record keeping
audits, etc.                                 not adapted to monitoring SAR expenditure
categories.
4.02                     Insurnce, maintenance of equipment, sound    Complied with, although final sllcation of 780,000
enginering, fmacial and agriculturl practices.   SDRs for repairr and replacement of ginnezy
equipment may have reflected inadequate past
maintenance.
4.03                     (i) Complete elimination of input subsidies by  Complied with but not according to original timetable
Febmary 1989                                 (pauwe in 1984)
(ii) prenotification of prices               Complied with - price variation  were minimal.
(iii) Interest on credit inputs at 11% 1983/84.  Not complied with.
(iv) Subsequent adjustment of interest ates.  Complied with, but instead of pecific interest
charges, SONAPRA introduced cash purchase
discounts to farmens from 1987/88. Implicit interest
charge varied according to the input.
(v) Cotton prices - barOme to be regularly   Prices were modified infrequently, but consistent
adjusted to reflect production costs.        with stabilization mechanism.
(vi) Seed charges to reflect marginal costs of  Inadequate information for the ystematic recovery of
production.                                  seed cos.
4.04                    (i) Bonus system for extension agents.        Complied with.
(ii) Salaries increasd to same level as other  Complied with.
state enterprises.
2.02                     Counterpat funding.                          This was a major problem, particularly serious from
1985 onward.



- 29 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff InDuts (Staffweeks)
TASK                    FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92    FY93            TOTAL
Preparation                       3.5   5.3   8.7-                         ---                 --     --      --     --        --      17.5
ApprsisaL                          -     --  47.9   6.4---                                     --     --      --               --      54.3
Negotiations/Board                                   6.0                               --      --     --      --     --        --       6.0
Loan Processing CLOP)                   0.4   3.2   6.3  ---                                   --     -       --     --        --       9.9
.... ----     ----   ----   ----   ----   ----   ----  ----  ---- .  ----  ----  . ....     ....  .  ----- ..... ... .. ..........
Sub-totaL                     3.5   5.7  59.8  18.7   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0             0.0     87.7
Supervision                                          5.6  17.1   8.9  13.1   7.9    6.5    6.9   10.0   11.5   13.0           1.2    101.7
Project Adninistration (PAD)                         0.9   0.1   0.6   0.1   0.1       --      -      --      -                --       1.8
Project CoepLetion Report                             --                               --      --     --      --    4.5        --      4.5
Sub-totaL                     0.0   0.0   0.0   6.5  17.2   9.5  13.2   8.0    6.5    6.9   10.0   11.5   17.5             1.2    108.0
TOTAL                         3.5   5.7  59.8  25.2  17.2   9.5  13.2   8.0    6.5    6.9   10.0   11.5   17.5             1.2    195.7
3      ...  ...   33.3  33.3  .323  3333   33    3323   3333    33 .        333   333       33fl



- 30 -
B. Missions (Statf and Consultants)
-    -I
Missions     Date  Number   SW in  Specialty    Rating  Type of
persons  Field    1/           Status  Problem
Preparation   05/81  3          5       Ag. Ec. FA
09/81  1         1       Agq
Appraisal      11/81  4         4       Ag Zc AZ FA
Post.appr     04/82  2          2       Ag Ec
Supervision   12/82  3          2       Ag Ec RE      2
05/84  7         10      Ag AE ME Li  2         Technical
Ag Tr FA               Manag.
11/84  2         2.5    Ag PA          2
04/85  2         3       Ag Ec         2        financial
06/85  1         1.S    Ag             2        technical
12/85  2         4       Ec AZ         2        technical
managem.
03/86  3         7       Ec AE Ag      1
10/86  1         1.5    FA             1
12/86  1         2       Ag            1
04/87  1         0.5    FA             1
02/88  2         2       Ag FA         2        technical
financial
07/88  2         2       Ag FA         2        managom
financial
03/89  2         2       Ag FA         2        financial
12/89  2         1.5    Ag FA          2        financial
10/90  2         4       Ag Ec         2        financial
07/91  2         5       Ag Ec         2        financial
05/92  2         5       Ag Zc         2        financial
I/ Ag: Agronomist, Ec: Economist, AZ: Agricultural economist
FA: Financial analyst, ME: Monltoring & Evaluation specialist
LI: Livestock specialist, RE: Rural Engineer, Tr: Training op.
2/ 1 Problem free or minor problems
2 Moderate problems
,/ Final supervision mission combined with PCR mission
4/ brief mission to review financial situation only



- 31 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1314-BEN)
TECHNICAL ANNEX






BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area - Production - Yields
PYO       PY 1       PY 2     PY 3      PY4      PY5      PY 6      PY 7        PYs          PY 9
1841      I8as      186)     1871     I88i     I89s      (901       (91           ( 921
Cow Pow
Area (000 ha)           29.00      25.62      29.13    23.57    23.71    24.07    27.75    31.23        30.43         36.64
Production('Tons)       10.15      11.14      17.19    13.46    10.81    10.42    13.35    16.30        15.51         18.81
Yields (kg")             350        435       590       571      456      433       481      523         510          513
Rice
Area('OOOha)            0.85       0.36       0.19     0.16      0.14     0.12     0.18      0.43       0.66          0.59
Production ITons)       0.62       0.54       0.39     0.26      0.21     0.27     0.46      1.03        1.80         1.33
Yields (kgf/l            729       1,504      2.060    1.603    1.520    2,189    2.580    2.415        2.727        2.254
Tobacco
Area ('OOO ha)          0.40       0.18       0.28     0.36      0.25     0.24     0.22      0.05       0.04          0.05
Production I'Tons)      0.16       0.08       0.14     0.20      0.13     0.10     0.11      0.02       0.02          0.02              l
Yields 1kg/h)            400        420       495       548      500      435       512      430         500          400               U
PY O      PY I       PY 2      PY 3     PY 4     PY 6     PY 6      PY 7       PY8           PY 9
(641       (851      (861    (871    (S8o      (891      (90)       (911          1921
h30h              6.50      7.84        12.78     18.13    18.73   15.38    22.79     20.33      28.04         37.30
mloOOOTons)       5.12       5.25       16.01     11.50    23.70   13.70    18.73     18.91      35.05         32.70
Sk* 0 ge)788                 670        1.252     634      1.265    891      822       930       1.250          877
X ha)  .          46.00,    33.38      42.42      48.23    42.80   33.60    46.16     44.96      45.63         52.52
('000 Tons)       28.33     18.36      32.24      37.19    24.27   17.47    32.08     30.70      29.74         33.70
*  sib.)          616        550        760       771      567      520      695       681        652           642
0 ha)             77.00     64.84      67.94      63.90    55.60   47.11    64.45     68.48      60.04         75.57
>n lTons)         46.20     45.53      54.92      53.81    42.81    36.54    52.85    55.70      44.70         64.69
g/ha)    _ __  _600          702        808       842      770      766      820       813        745          856
CARDER nnuud reponts
30



- 34 -
ANNN EX I
Page 2 of 8
BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crops - Objectives/Achievements
Objective SAR   PY 0        PY 9        % Difference     % Oifference
(92)           from          from PY 0
Oblecilvee
Conton
Area ('000 ha)             12.5         6.so       37.30          + 198             + 474
Production ('000 Tone      10.8         5.1 2      32.70           + 203            + 539
Yields (kg/ha)             864          788         877             + 2             + 11
Maize
Area ('000 ha)             77.0         77.0       75.57             2                 2
Production ('000 Tons)     51.4         46.2       64.69           + 26             -40
Yields (kg/ha)             667          eoo         856            + 28             + 43
Groundnuts
Area ('000 ha)             48.0         46.0       52.52           + 14             + 14
Production ('000 Tn        32.4         28.3       33.70            + 4             + 19
Yields (kg/hal             704          616         642              9               + 4
Cow pee.
Aree ('000 hal             29.0         29.0       36.64           + 26             + 26
Production (000 Tn         13.S         10.1       18.81           + 39             + 86
Yields (kg/ha)             48S          350         513            + 10             + 47
Rice
Area ('000 ha)              1.2        (0.5t       0.59           - 51
Production ('000 Tn         1.1        (0.d21       1.33           + 21
Yields (kg/hal              83          729        2254            + 155            + 209
Tobacco
Area ('000 ha)             0.7          0.4        0.05            -92
Production ('000 Tn         0.4        .0.16       0.02            - 95
Y'islds (kgfhe)            514          400         So00.                           + 429
Source:      CAROER annuai repors.
"As from Staff Appraisal Report.



BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extension Service
1983   1984    1985    1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991            1992
PYO    PYI    PY2        PY3    PY4    PY5    PY6    PY7    PY8           PY9
Number of farmers    18.0   21.0    24.0    28.0   33.0   38.0   38.0   38.0   38.0             38.0
('000)
Number of contacted                    12.8    15.7   16.4   18.1   25.3   33.2    30.9         36.8
farmers ('000) 21
Number of AVA                          172     171     170    170    170    166        156       149
(ext. agents) 2v
Farmers/AVA                            74       92      96     107    149    200       223      246
oolG
UAs from Staff Appraisal Report.                                                                                       ,!
0
'As from CARDER annual reports.                                                                                       m
wMission estimates.



- 36 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 o f 8
BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJET
Additional Production Predictions Versus Achievements
(metric tons)
Predictions   Achievements |        Achievemet    %
SAR PY 5   Actual PY 5                   s
Actual PY9
Seed-cotton   +5,700         +8,580     +51        +27,580    +333
Maize         +5,200          -9,660    -285       +18,490    +256
Groundnuts    +4,000         -10,860    -286        +5,370      +34
Cowpeas       +3,300          +270       -92        +8,660    +162
Rice            +400           -350     -188         +710      +77
Tobacco         +200            -60     -130          -140    -180



-37 -
ANNEX 1
T,-ge  of 
BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Development Stages. PY 7: 1989/90
(kg/ha)
(SAR = Object PYS)
Stage 0         Stage 1           Stage 2         Average
SAR    PY7    SAR        PY7    SAR    PY7    SAR    PY7
Cotton           600    806       800      928   1.000    1.243    860    879
Maize            600    815    1.000    1.020   1.600    1.063    740    840
Groundnut        600    488       800      640   1.100         -    820    581
Cow peas         350    300       500      504    700       485    580    357
Rice             700    NA    1.000        NA   1.300       NA      880  2.581
Tobacco          400    NA        600      NA      800      NA      510    519



BENN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Yields per Hectare (kg/ha)
PY 0   PY I   PY 2   PY 3    PY 4    PY 5    PY 6  PY 7  PY 8   PY 9   Mog.
(1983)                                                                            %
4an
Cotton      788     670  1,252      634    1,265      891     822   930   1,250      877    970
Groundnuts  616     550    760      771      567      520     695   681      652     642    668
Maize       600     702    808      842      770      766     820   813      745     856    809
Cowpeas    350      435    590      571      456      433     481   523      510     513    507
Rice        729    1,504  2,060    1,603    1,520   2,189   2,580 2,415   2,727   2,254  2,494
Tobacco     400     420    495      548      500      435     512   430      500     400    461
X >
Dlz
OC .
0r
co



BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Inputs - Equipment
P                                                                                PT7 OP IV   PT  9           Total
nw og F1;91;21                            ip       "190 b   n  190 4        l9907    1991S    1n9929     oe
1. Eqait (I-.)
Utv Sprayer                      (929)         672         898     1,103       1.125     1,044        830         581    1,401    1,193       8,175
Oxen Pair                        MA                         39         0          34        49         35          33        36       43        269
Ploughs                         NA                          14         0          27        44         32          27        32       26        202
II. Iqpats
A. Fertilizer (t)
Cotton copoW   UPK              0            1,326       2,033     2,723       2.955     2,595      3.262       2.893    4,117    4,348    24,926
Urea                             0             387         808     1,044         907       848        m           875    1,357    1,421       8.037
Potassium Chloride              0               25         102       160         197        51         25          94      107       143        879
Triple superph.                 0               31          25       120          45        14          9         156      255       311        935
Total:                                       1,769       2,968     4,047      4,104      3,508      4,03       4,018    5,836    6,223    34, m7
Prix engrais FCFA/kg                            60          60        90          90       100    90/100        85/95   85/95    85/95
B. Inseeticides ('000 t)
lnsect. cotton                  0            116.6      231.9      257.7      300.2      256.9     285.6        239.0   348.2    342.1   2,261.6
Insect. cow peas                0              1.2        0.7        0.7        0.9        1.6       5.1         11.0    18.3       22.2      60.5
Total                                                                                                                    366.5    364.3   2,322.1
Prix insecticide FCFA/titre                    600         600       850       1,100     1,500   1I5o          I  00    I Soo    I
C. Ilnroved Seeds (t)
"size                           0            22.05       34.44     34.06       28.71     41.96      43.81       76.96    67.53    37.30    364.77
Groundhuts                      0                                   0.49       11.00      3.17      14.49       15.75    11.24       7.9   64.04
Rice                            0                                   0.04        0.18      0.51       1.14           0        0         0       1.87
Sorce:             CAlDER an tl reports.
C,



BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cooperative Movement
PYO     PYI       PY2       PY3        PY4       PY5       PY6      PY7    PY8        PY9       SAR
1984     1985      1986       1987      1988       1989    1990    1991      1992     Object.
Others                 186                         340        326        318       318      374     458      488
Newly created GV                                                         52        139     267      429      446
Total groups           186                         340        326        370       457     641      887      934        550
GV = Groupements villageois
0C
co



- 41 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1314-BEN)
ECONOMIC EVALUATION ANNEX






. Pw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I i. Ao t 
91"        PA"        lots       isle        Otto       *MA,       at"f        it"        et"        sawl        "Its       Otto       PSS         S.w        Iz sit      oil          Mo          t et I ey            "                                                                      ,I
nt    s  z   tt  n  g*   e*   @t  -  t s s t@ @@4 t@ "4 8 ,t, n@2 * 9 @ w_4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-T " P W
nF   n   *r   r   r   ne  os  en  *- n *- Et n-  n e_ ge n @ * e X *-qw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~og" "
S.            9,   ~    $st        t91,        PCx        Sow         st         tt           *         *e         s            n                     @*
Otto~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sit    SO@w t-                                                                                                                                                                            si* 
ne   - ne  nt  nt    nw  ng         ne          ns         ee         eg          nt          -          gg         se          8e         wg          #e         zet    **               tt        nt          lt                          -@Z*0c0_ 0@- itsw ,,       s See  11.    pll    S
11:~~~                                               *:                                                                              .:;         "'          So    w .   .                                  '*F-'                                               *
SC           CS...                             gel                    Pt                                SC -                                                                                        0      *    wa                        *                            w  n.-CT###_.-II*-_
M         to      n v             M         f e e        .                                                      t*s         to         Cs    *       *s        g          So-                               go t -   to       - 9 to                                   oo  *-  z 
ss      ne      *||           I      ***          n "C I  Kss VS I                                                             olle *||    t I         t         tog2        So         So,        9,98                   AL 
.                                                                           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
@*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, .                        ...                                                                                           A.tw,      ."   e        t   e w So     -ztt@ #* @  w
eN ni          nes n      rnt        not                                           mot rnrt              "gor   f  t  V*s is    usi         sXee"       Mtor       M43        "to        nte-t      tisf        U"$   See              n t         *
@"n             So                     9.         91,n        91,        tot r.                et"i        test ee      et       of         ent         nM          141        eel         Mws        n It                                                                                 J oet 
@w    en    ww  t  tw      |          @*    *                s*    z*               e-    @.    @                     na          e           n           n          t          z          wt    9                                                                 * n_s~~~~'   "It   11*   ""  0:1
cn    to."    t-t        ""e   '""i             C""        ""C         t""        C"         o"          Cs4, v0t   t"t         Nice       liee          Of       I*t n e     ,e   *           z        tn      PCX et   *
So         nn1         n:1        :;I        ..s         ::*n      n:I         So I        . 0  .:I I^                                                                     n          tn         #           n                                                            
PC e    n               n          ofet                                          *n                 loet  nnt              An n:      OS          89          "Il                               .1          =    * t  t           tel         tes*et                                            n* - X"
nx~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                               I so       it X a s,  :::          SO        so.         So          "S        n:          got        PCe         O"t         "ot        PA.         W                     *                                                *
le'    Sos                        *I n        1                      n         n         "             o         ^           e         n           n 1*s                             *             z          n         *t         n 
,9         Sol        got         I.,        CO nn  *0n  *.                                           I           S-n  -tn                                                             I.n          M        90n       *z w t n e **f t  e Sz   | es     t wT
t@e nZ X | ~~~goe         s||st s   eve  "O        We @    "I            401         "O   * @ NO 
"t  NO  "O  "O  Q4,l,                     :19.                     It        :;1,       ::21                                                     Zv                                                0 



------ -------- -------- ---------------- ....... ........... ------------------- -- ------ ------------- ---------------------------------------  --------- --------------- - -------------------------------------
"add                 &I 0".   Isaft   so...    0.606   d....    .1 wo    .,-                      em.        ed.add   ..."    I.-do   4. I..f   w add   I.16.11    n'toto   a sets    .999di   No"                                                 -00-Vd*o WAO" P-Ppo-.qppi
w IM      waa    941""    "-Me   "ider   "..da                   04,dar   "'ifif   u IM           "bitic   W. beel    9. "H    g...As   " C"s   ",vd$   os"e-   ed big    94'l   0 on                          811,20-                                   0- vamA -.41do               PM
t"                            wo-         wo-        wo-        W-*-       Wo-       "o-        .8 S-      wo-        .4 t -     It*-        go-       "II-    of 04-    "II-    " .               go'.       Of O       98,80      did        a"
S.  99#1      "at        be 0.         .6      $$.I       .4 0.      Is ..      .. .8      .. Is      4. .6      St 6.      I. .9                 ed -       es .0-    19 .0-    .1           01.0-    ".
be  be                                                                                                                  4. 6       ...1
a ad                    m          ad   -             be W    de'*             be   W.-   tood.-                            W-
CI`A                                      W                     a :".                :                                                      . =    . be                      es                                                        .4    O
01.    . :I..    .:r.    ....              I"       .:11.   1. :w..    w...                               w...       w;..                   .-,    -:-                     St. dds-   ..L .         .. ...    :.
IV                                          Us.   et Uoo   et &JOI   .1 id'..   It ....    .. ... O   el $111   as -a   of Ws   .8,0.06   0. is.,   "Led.   4. Obe    be                                                   god     of .19    Of 0
C-0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AW- NA*440                     Vasa-solit'"Ildeddeddiddis
on         we    on             we    oft             m          wr    on              m          we    In               on    an              #W    $141
O, I                               S          I       ::k        as-        .46        :6         ::$        *Is        U 1        .4.                   be I        .1
Of        Of         a                     to                    be                                                                -          -          -                     se                    :6         do
-1         "I        -5                                                                :6         as         "S         -0    fts                        be         be                     so
do        Z                                 de                   La                               a                                do         be         de           -
Z.,
a         set        ut         set        Ws         le I       W I        W I        W 6        a S        a I        n I        W a        a I          I        W 6        bo I       Ws         :61                                                                               on"
40-    w-                       fd-    m-                                                                                                     w-   se                                                "s
a                                                                                                                                  beI
Is                                                   Ift, 1.  ZIL    ...   .:,   -:,   ...   -                                                                                            ":-
6.9   ft"             "a        aw         S."                                                                          did.    w.,   4.13-                         "Co-
"B.,         le,      dii.,      "too      "   I      ":1        "'S.       I                                           ...'s      -o'l                  :7
.101   at..   as.$                                                                                    .4   -  -    .    mc    ..'I-  O=_                                       as                                                                                 eft"S
W.04       444#1                                      "::        .1.6       W.61         :::     W:::    1. la, I      a"It
"I'm  goal  aeft  Om   0~    Ma                                              W."   aa,  -                    Ma                    "a"  04.3  bass                             "M    ":II  we   dal                                                                                    --IW3
"'W"s   "'Mt   "'Ml   "'Mg   "'Idef   "'tat   "ml   videts                                        WGISI   "Ws   nons   "Ml   U'AAG    Nass   it 9"                            ftqm       sm-no      me-we    W-*"         go-O
O                 da
U.    9.41.    7.1                         .0 A    t.'s                      ...    :                                                                   -Pwd
age.   Me.   MO$   W'si  Oftef  S" 44  ded I   -01  fast                                                     ga..            el                                                                      ad         M "'   O
be                                                                                                   O          O
de:                     9       swip       Vs.                                                                                                                                 0
I.                  0. :
oil       Of I
be        see        4..                    ge.:
be a      es of                               do                                                                                   goes       I-$                              "is
#*M       " WO                                        :1.                    H.                     .1.    I.,. a.      I.                    do                       -0,                           sofft      6stw
W         "I    Id   W"                                                        be                                                                                                                                                                                                        489
II         1. II      Is .       :41       :4.        4". Is      ". ..     :1.        ...        r.         -, 1.61       -                    .1
Of 4.1    "..0    :2 1    .4                de ".    se 0.    is".             ::I                   .4                            4. "       be W
"No  do Id.  ft tt.  U.0   0.4ab    ft   -                                     as  " ad  ag..   be .4.   a                            da.  be ad  ft W    " -4   S.."   As W                                                                                                     -Wft-- B"
"S                                                                                                                                                                                        nor   as   mor   ow                                                        owma a "M W*-"
Ide                                                                                         O-WV" A mmp-P,
se        of         .6         *I         go         el         a a         9 I       el         0 1        et
de        do         de         I           a,                              do                                            I        "I                                                                           Ads                           sweed .0-0 Maddid
Z          Is                               Z                     11                                                     I I       of                    T                     T          a:                               be                            9 p 0- -0-
'd                                                                                                           Ad
to        of          so                   ef         of          eg         go        1.          I         44         et         go         I I        .6         .4         go         99         S.         T          to         of
014%      base        was        W49       9946       sell       .984        less      loss       IdI                              "el                   l1wa       W  I       t.         :9.4       RG I       M."        ObIls      =6
do                                                                                                           :91    ,              :06                                                                                                                                        an
-9         ts        n          :1         :1                     de
fte    "a                       ad                    "I                                                                                                            -6    de              M
O"                    M         .10.1                 O`.:       9"s I      IM         liG                   as                                                                                                  is:
wevag.0 "Whop 4md
a         0           le        0          0                                                                                                  .6                                                                            op sibmided
I.        de                                                                                                                       0
O4#&      adds        OGII       "as        base      4.66        sell       sell      nig        4*66       "O$        cost        -1        O"         as         an         wig        "it        ag                                                                                   -n
66".                                                                                   :'11.      Ws.                   We                                  0       U de          M       de         le                                                      "ad ea
le
ago                             eggs       not        ads        age        ugs        4T.I       "9#        :ICI       acti                  Om         a .0.                 I -        I     .                                                                       "Now-*
v."    9               as   a iff  4-dom   I bod   I                                   I                                S."                   O"         O W        : W"    W                                                                                              beftemam-4
I                                , .                                                   -                     ,           19                                                                    0 du
a.       It'.                             M.         .:41       1:11       ...        Is'.                                        A.6        -4         "I                                                                    owup
".1       1.11                             ....       -I         .4.                                                               4.         ~          8"         .06
al    0".    me    M.    elso   0-6    S..    M$    M.    Sa.    Obs:                                                              d":                   M,    -d    age    046   C."    age    a                                                                                        Ed"
Al        Al         Ad         Ad         La         Ad         Ad         11         Ad         de         La         .1         .4         La         Ad         A4         Ad         44         :4         Ad         As
of



OCOIIGUW FA*UOA?1 pinto
9050 pdk.og
9000       sell        le0d        9005        900"        seat        goes        goes      9t0"         let         9501        felt        S0o:        05         05414       955          00           oo        o 1009 89 to  "         ME0        I"00,
COMptll canIon UPI( 14:23149:S:0                                                  S            a           S                                             I                                 S  I*       9           086         S1 S        S.                     S0          S8 I                    5          8
lO I IVSI4b ...d o 1.0So.oc I-Caage4                            aes         So)1 109O   3909 if         0       000  OSl s$s  6   a     see s)      $*          toy30 9 OF5   1903  8604 40        six)41      off1 is       US          390         all          190        300        80          84 
89d.*Vd        0x                                      *3         85           40        85            )8        00             9         19             0          0           0          5            0          5            0         5            40                      00                     00
Cie 008058q                                        S1)000        0.00       440          18          400        130         119         1)0          11         00          4)         *5410.0140              2019:         14          34          800         84          X5         00          10 
P ak..wO.0   A in005                                     90          If          19          I'S         I3         a0          9            0           0           5           5           0         9            0          909                     59                      0909
W.^   ...o.bo  CU.                                       08        08          10           0           8          00           5          95           5          0           ad          00          5           58          of          59         00          55          So          *000
Woaooua.ooL.3.i         005         088        850           SO        988         994         000         991          59          08          50         50         909         903         908         908        909         900          08          00so:      00          55e 0:    IsS  folSaofor  ::  I  0.  o  0
I..Sd. Pd.                                              Its        toy         oil         8199        130         910         it0          83*        904        9o?         04'         045         gig         its         Its         Its        ell         Ile         to0        9Is00                    0
pp  Pt         I)         ~~~        ~~~         ~~~~~PP  P  PI  I8       DO          PP         I            Wt         P            O          1            V                     P 8         Pl          D           P          89
UNA80590150                                                          2           4          8            3          08          5            0         0           0            0          0 000                              50          05          00          to         5.          oo  is
CJo. OF s   IO                                         0e          Se           .0          2            8o         as          as          as          0f                      0           *5         ad          so                      03         ea           0         as          as0
%0..M.$0 A00 fl.                                      so          of          Is          9I           0           0           0           0          0           0           0           0           8500000040
W.4o6-     o0.C09w                                       14                     so 0        08          0            *          00          0           5          5 03                    00          0          00          0      0     5           0          00         I0          0505
Wo.tI,.o.oo::     .                                    00           40         93           0 ...                   S5         0SS          0s0*                   00         '0           00          S!         04          08          59          3           to         000000
V9.AW4A-        . 0:                                               I.:0 4 9      0          So0           8                     Is I0       9           Is          Is         90,         of          00          90          is         00          to          00          90,         to            
P8odPko.                                           954        00e         Sea         904         911          00         See         So$         to          to          08         000         902         954        00          000         00          900         90"         9001       90
P8           t          P          Ip8         P              S4          S                    I IP       PI V                                11 I874                 8           I4         PW  ~       I           II           8         P
t a a. I -ussig                       SSG         Its         104~~    Ila            Is 0                      5Is       06          8i         It          0)           002         991         984         96         94e         0          901         98o        le90*
#,05. 400                                                 0           0           0           8          0           9           0           9           3           1           )           0          0           4           0           0           0          5           0           9          0 
8.039  *1919;~53                                                     3)1.        341        1.4         4            7          0            3           4          0            0         0           50          90          50          50:1       00          001         45000
C..% Atit.0 8UAD0*0a0of 1 I03                                    3009       4314S0      44S0 1s 40 3            14004       2102as      3800o9      88*3 la      0*l09        380         ate         880         08g         ate        380         lie         al0                     al 8010                 9
C II-IfCDAFNgI                                            3                    Ste940  00   990          30         0             s 0        l 08       9           50          So           S5        0            0          0            0000                               40                     0
P4wO04Ooo.                                       9            0          9            9                                                                                  0           0          S0                      00                                                          
..L..  0a*-0                                                                            5    .      3S3S0 I  S                                                 0           0i          I         so          *:           0          0.          0:          *           0*
85000959599                                               9            0          0            0           5           5           0           8          8           8                                                                                                                       
Wdo0.0o8.    .                                      30         90           5          00          00Is:                     0          4          8 S9                    80         .I          0            O          08          3                       3580                               0o
8010A090U4 CHADR.500g 904    Cod W039?)                 99     14   M          9t9         910          of          s           I9  I       is          of          it         10          *4          Is          89          i0          F$         Is          80         80208



Lcosomc sumr  _as P
*WN~  oft   to e "OS; IM S. pit      od.4        em11       en.        166        Io"        19m        e",        tom                  to"e       loot       lo"          m9       fil64     to6"       em         le.,       som       low        Be"        m          ame       as
pi        PT         PT         p    PT               PT                    piPT S     PT        PW         PT         SW         PT         pi        PT         PIT        PT         pi         PV        SW         PI
t~~                                                  ~    ~     ~ ~        ~    ~     ~~ *   5      &  4  *      *          I          6          5          6        II         II         13         64         6          4         Ii         IS         6e         *
Kam     U8eBpe4 6466                                            I          l          1*        I          4          O         III         56a                  Ie         IS,                   is  i      se        SS         of.       to         t.          'ae1    le            e
F.O                                                So         so?         ts        It         1.         we         my         I%t:      lee        loo         t:        SU                   @    t    "O         I          I1         is                   I"9:
Swi"   .4                                                      44         46         40         3          34          6         3 *       46         46         45         45         4         45         46         46         4"        46         45         4          45         45
Cm. CA"   46..Iddt                                 643        to6        6    1:    I"         14I         e   6 0    33*       1344      114        IU        I66I4        "   14      3 4     6464       156        S66        m46        lft       15"        646        M6         6
an__btw t WAU                                      am                     "         4a         3"        3          an         S:         art    n              ape        no          P        an         It         are        an        ar         #S          y         an         BP.
CU.  VW *C4                                         as         eSl        7          P          el         43        4          4          4          463                   4         5          30        4d          4          43        46          4         4                     4
W Oddo-.k  Cd1S                                I           646                            6           ?          4         5          5           6        4 a*  SI                         1          "3        6           6         6S5                    65 
n_s.epSCd-3.                S             r          _          3          *    * 1         *               *          3          6         1 3   3          3          1                    3                3         *          *                                3
V.0p 5                                              75         6 *        6*         6*    * 6              6     * 6             )        56     * 6        * 4            66         54     * 5        * 6           5          5          56     * I 
t _ _ _ _                   ax         n          n          ^^         *-                     ^         *-         *^        *-         *-         *^          .         ..         ..        ..         ..g..                 .
P   -yk*M6bv " 6600                             to         *8         3*         U          IS         Il         is         Ie        is          is        is         IS         I:         is        IS         IS         Io         is         I:         is         la
P..gd..s&..                            46         53         63         63~4       44         56        56         46         36         56         a6         5         314        56         56         56         56        46          C         46         36
0^
---
b 



-4
114
ca-i
5t       iti        Ste        Sea        'i         Se        "i        tti                  4b a       SO ti      i1        i.e        its      sel         te          I        O si       us        sit        5.,        c i                   *sI .rc.Pmu  ,we   ... --"A
atii      f las     'ss        at,       aoss       a.         an        aan       aans       ates       *5n       tt51       at,,      tt         nn,        Ws         it,       us,       stiot      sil       951        its                             ii   -   
* s       *i         cis       si*        ss         si        .4w       Si         si        sin        *e,s       *,        *i         sit       *55        ses        in        mf         thi         t..       Psil      Sis                                 t t i. *541 *1.u-i
I miii    ,wiis                    iii    . .   *sm*i           iiO..     niasi    sp     shs.i          s * "s  uts,                    11, ,,    44ci        i.a       ws"        t t       4 tesO     I's.       0us,    "S.          tis I5*5    i                          tsts ."   P 
it"       iii         .it        es       wi*ts& n         s.  ii        e.s    c 's           ii        e1          Moos     e          it t          i        Stn    is4         5 t        itse      giets      s t        5t1                                   ml- u W-5ui
@@$, w 6             9.9       1-0                  $0,4       two       9.0        1. 0      10         1.         1. 0      1.0         . a       .         "to   ,,             St n    n       n    SC         w ,- SC
1S10      9 W        IN t *       is t    511      t  is    si555       Suls    itiCt    su5  tle14    tuseSl    .tsumt   M*                      I iti est  feet"    tellt  lsetC"t "C         si. P g  sc." .F iCttt *A            RA
wtT wT onto          Step      GP#        d w        IMP       of         "Ve       W..:      d_tw '0.              400        a"t.      on*        M"        1.9        Pet"      ""         no"         Me            a     evosz                                    g.:,Z  WZ  t AA-8
mitt       ease       silt      ease      muC        mtt        'Its      Igoe       slit.     lst.       lost       soot      Ise,      mtet      inset       ccal      ittii     sil         O"e        CAIt      Otesi     met.
Sit       iii,       Slt       itit       Iti        Silt      iti       iXte       lilt      Sil        liSt       Slt        hist      *as       nat        tue        tags      st         *t        st n        ts        caps**
evae      situn       sa,St  nst          "atu       s2a1s       san   situ         "gt       nsit       etls       sint      ta,        ameoc      mens      aisti      tut       ant.       sits       Can        a mtit    "i.e .,
sun       sn         n s sus   snn        s n         @sun     sesns          t suu  esi       |sei      sna        guu       sitt    eret          itius    ,a.ast    rsuttt  a mtwt  aetsZ             assei  5.tiit   aintsi* *                                              ii-X d
iit        mst1    wmifie      most       most       Mis       wise      woes    wtse I        ies.      si-ee l      Isle     S.*         t        ii14,     sass       ont       nSe         uSe o _ 0s           "as       wastosdI
st,        "it       "Pt        "it        wiC       wPS       set        not       wt         "we        "t         swit      "wt        es          se      5                     it  *wt              5i5 niit             i"Ct                                 *losttt iiiei
wise      "tie       Uste      Wsi        neil        wese      ess      n.eZ       is           enz     wee        mite      nwee       mace       nc.       jaite      is        mc         _ss,       miss      nit        nite                              w    -, .ueesd
_tti      fel        81*       _tett      su         _tea      aette      teat     aetti       a         ttet       .im        tet       aicc       wte        mete      wis        m zet      mis,s     uss       swi        use                                  iiu.peciaia
cosi      sue n       Cc        a         Ogcsi        u       coae miii   u         oa,$scsi   ups,     sPe           C       ti       ""I        it.        wis l      ets"    itea        w : es                 0  at itii1@rt enitW iS                    mi  i  titt
*       ""I     "to       41"        "So       t10        ""I        UP9      "to         "We       n.91      t:1"       11I        11,1SI    oti        on"        "leg      its"       "M"        octa       WWII      GemX- 
muer      #ow        *et    ow            *ma        sua       swa           @t mco            om        ouw        *a         9         e             *"e    "Co        I on    n A 41"Bs               nXto Im"      tom    *10                                              a ~ol
emU       geai    ses          ssst   *et           suet       g|uest    mii   Usis         *   5        sitrs    suts    iW e*en   aste           sR mis    itis       a* wsa        iis   anu         tsinai   5imtistase
"to        op*5       Moll       0999     is         e1,a       elts       "sao        t       salI      cae        ea  tI               a tm . IeSt           Cse        itl       ai           "O'    easi         iets        s                              owsiinv   tWe seoewi0
5         c          A         *          5         *          *          5                   a          a          a         a          5         0          As                   W,         ii. l       t        eat         5                                     wolooc,e Al.*
1.5416* ta2 P -I $-"P"e
ea,        adti      iesa      ma,it        a  sets            we,"a      Sltl      "o,        in,       ass,       one       nil11     s"ss        Sels,     ni,6       011s,      we,       case       "ita       is,,9     t4ii                           lst".J-Wo   W     a IO
Ad        Ad         Ad        Ad         Ad         Ad        Ad        Ad         Ad        Ad         Ad         Ad          d        Ad        Ad         Ad         Ad        Ad         Ad         Ad        Ad
SA        met        isel       em.       wee       s'es       t, wee               n          *         l                       s                  5s        nil        ti        we,        n           i        me          i
co"  to"  to" ~~~M  0"6  we  lost  leirl  "el  1`4190  Vases  14141$  10116  0"6  6"6      "at       19116     9"9        "el        "06       VIIII      801111 ~         ~       ~       ~      ~    ~     i



los        1oes        1904        000         C OO      1907        1000       9CC        1S0S        1001        1002       10*3       1014        100        1SO        1907        1000       1CC        2000         001       200o       2003
Pt        pr          Pr          Pt          PT         PT         PT          PT         pT          Pt         eV          P0         Pt         "I         Pt          Pt         IT          PT         IT         IT          PY
bNCE                                                                 S          I           a         3           4                                              S         a          to         It1        IF          Ii        tO          IO         tO          II          t*IC2
YO   ThW p.ob00.4d (USM5                              22 23                               03                   2I          200         2:2        2          20          2          230         UO         340        240         200        20I        OC0         200        204         200        2"I
O.0t20404.O00   (002                                toO         **         130         ItO        100          30         02         tO?        104         00         122                                           SC         030OIt2III                                              tta :I
Ckt.4fr.04t,S,M -  0.                                   3          4           C          00         4            0         5           5           0         0            S          O          0           0         0           053        05         SO0                     0           0
W-,>ndt Ss                                                                                                                        64         so         .0      X    I         es          Os                                                      T           06         e  t Ol^                 s  . l
CI   (USO47CM.                                        la          I0O        Ia         tOO        1tO         1IS         232        203         222        2-S         23?        Ott        Z0          221        224         220        2t1        234         231        231         231        231
I..h Ptl. P CFAIUSOI                                  330        301         43?        40C         340        30t         200        310         222        22          20         220        220         22        2.0         22          020        202                    21          22         220
C I F (F CP AJKgl C -n-                                03          22        a*           if           4         00             I 2      2         so         *S 60                                         s0          a I1                  02          03         54          S.         00         S.
PfhI,dfW,q  OAI;                                                   II          It I*t                             I                                                                    I          I *                   a *                    C *  *                             0          * *
Wots.000CSle..                                02          02        tO           0          20          72         00          CO         is          as         it2         23         23         74          It         70          72         IS          IF         ye         If          lO
t..IOflCoC -Zota(I200                                   3           3           3          I          3           *                                                                                a *  2     3          3          3          3           3          3           3          3
W.i. W cIat.                                            Sa        S4         104          C          22          is         00          01         20         o2          02          20         y0         tI          20         ?C         so          01         02         02          02         0
VOLt.M          P. P0                                  03          S0    t   05           00         40          0           S:         St         4          05          02          0          0           C          0          00         CO          CI         02         02           2         02
L-oI0.-.P-4Ol&        0  g                                          I          2                      0           0  0 F                                                   6          1                                                                                                        
Pdr   -m   lb, Sl14 b.OC40                              2           a          a           2          2           2          2           2          2          2           2          2           2          2           2          2          2           S          2           2          2           2
Patqlv ..I..                                          4a           so                    et          34         40          40          04         42        40           4S         41          01         02          *2         S3         03          04         30          0          00         00
TOBACCO
ba  t.. ood OA POe                                  2I00        20          202        IS0          So,       10          tl         la.         14S"3      IO          1*2l       1:20       1.00        122        1031        1031       103f       1031        1031       1131       13e        100,
100111*3C000                                         330         30z         032        000         330        301         ZOO        310        2)2         202        220         220        220         270        21C        220         320        220         220        210        320         270
P ClOOXO                                              220        200         003        020         014        Sec         02         003         04         030        00          004        ol          oe         000        004         400        400         300        aCt        000         00
CV  Cs~~~~~~el                          05          'C         00           43        410         302        30           24 t   33            332         322        300         205        22         302         302        SOt        92          302        3 0?        302         O
Pbe*o*b                                 1~~~~~740   340        421         010        222         220        220         204        200f        20o    4   246         23         220        220         220        23      4        2      20        234X        234        230        230
F..h-q.  ..  I  4                                                                         3
oQzo
0Q 2
ODt
:--
rtl
ui



Page 7
PROJECT INVESTMENT excluding fertilizer and other input costs elsewhere accounted for (FCFA)
GOB &                 less CCCE
IDA        CCCE    inputs            FAC         TOTAL
1983                                                     300,000,000   300,000,000
1984              1,207,469,192   613,781,143  (266,319,638)  271,000,000 1,825,930,697
1985               799,300,601   339,104,058  (147,137,251)  143,000,000 1,134,267,408
1986               676,003,398   374,697,716  (162.581,339)       0  888,119,775
1987              1,116,023,254   319,028.803  (138,426,598)  139,000,000 1,435,625,459
1988               571,042,506   191,607,259   (83,138,390)  157,797,000   837,308,375
1989               596,005,763   160,399,574   (69,597,375)   99,000,000   785,807,962
1990               378,757,816   131,964,873   (57,259,558)    5,000,000  458,463,131
1991               530,330,666                                    0  530,330,666
1992               492,926,523                                    0  492,926,523
1993               420,000,000                                        420,000,000
1994               4,20,000,000                                       420,000,000
1995              '420,000,000                                        420,000,000
1996               420,000,000                                        420,000,000
1997               420,000,000                                        420,000,000
1998               420,000,000                                        420,000,000
1999               420,000,000                                        420,000,000
2000               420,000,000                                        420,000,000
2001               420,000,000                                        420,000,000
2002               420,000,000                                        420,000,000
-J
0



-  50  -                                              ANNE, 2
. . , ,. s:                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~Page 8 of 13
i.2,          1
* 3
|S * S,'1 
- "    ''i
2 5*      S.
* S      2 S  S 
3           - * 5
' g ' S I
i *  i'::
U  -    '  
1      -  - ,
,I    .2. 
*  ,      31 .-   



- 51 -                                      ANNEX 2
Paee 9 nf 13
Notes on forecasting hypothesis
1. Cotton
A progression of cotton production has been observed since project start until PY9
(37,200 t. in 1991/92) with an average annual growth of 6% or 1,960 t/year. The same rate has
been maintained for projection from year 9 to year 20 (2002/03) on the assumption that land is
available and cotton, as the only cash crop, will remain a priority crop in the farming system.
The total projected production in the year 20 of the project is of about 54,300 t. A study
conducted by the "Fonds de Stabilisation et de Soutien" gave a projection of 40,500 t for the
year 1995/96 (project year 13) which is in line with the figure obtained with the above
hypothesis. Another cross-validation could be obtained by multiplying the maximum number of
farmers during project life (36,800 in PY9) by the maximum yield per farmer (1,445 in PY 4)
which results in 54,200 t, showing that the forecast is realistic.
Cotton yields have been kept constant on the basis of the average of the last four
years (970 kg/ha), and areas have been calculated by dividing production by yield.
2. Other crops
The total area for all crops in PYlO has been increased by a rate of 3% per year
to take into account population growth. While groundnut and cowpeas have kept the same
relative importance as of the last four years of the project in % of the overall surface, an inverse
relationship as been applied to cotton and maize surface as observed during project life, maize
area decreasing with cotton growth. The yield of these other crops has been assumed constant
on the basis of the last four years average.
The area for rice and tobacco has been kept constant.
3. Input
Plough: Mid-term credit continues at the same rate as the last four years.
ULV Sprayers: according to cotton surface on the same basis as the last three
years.
NPK: according to cotton surface on the same basis as the last four years
Urea: according to cotton and maize surface on the same basis as the last two
years.
Potassium Chloride: according to cotton surface of the South of the Province on
the same basis as the last two years.
Super Triple: according to groundnut surface on the basis of the last two years.
Cotton pesticides: according to cotton and cowpeas surface on the basis of the last
four years.
Maize selected seeds: according to maize surface on the basis of the last four
years. Same for groundnut and rice.



BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projections for 20 years (PYO = 1983)
I    PY o     n 1           PY 2           PY 3          p 4          PY5            PY6          PT 7             aP J      PY9          p  10
Areas    OOa       I x  OO ha      I owOha   x   '000 ha   x   'COOhaI      s   aw   ha  X   '0003 a   1              xmba   i o hma | x  Oaw        'm a | X
Cotton        6,50    4    7,84    6    12,78    8    18,13   12   18,73  13   15,38  13   22,79   14   20,33  12   28,04   17   37,30   18                35,8  21
Ground-        6,0   29   33,38   25   42,42   28   48,23   31   42,80  30   33,60  28   46,16   29   44,96  27   45,63  28   52,52  26                    46,9  27
ruts
laize         77,0   48   64,84   49   67,94   45    63,90   42   55,60  40   47,71  39   64,45   40   68,48  42   60,04  37   75,57  38                   59,0  34
Cowpeas      29,00   18   25,62   20   29,13   19   23,57   15   23,71  17   24,07  20   27,75   17   31,23  19   30,43  18   36,64   18                   31,2  18
Rice          0,85     1    0,36           0,19           0,16           0,14         0,12          0,18          0,43         0,66         0,59            0,6
Tobacco       0,40           0,18          0.28           0.36           0,25         0,24          0,22          0,05         0,04         0,05            0,1
Totat     | 159 751 1w0  132 221 1w0  152 741 1wl 154 351 10W  141,231 100  121 121 100  161 551 10W  165 48 10W  164 841 1w   202 671 1w0    173 6  100
PT 11          P12             PY 13          PY 14           PT 15          PY 16            PY 17          PY 18         PY19          PY 20
Areas     W'OOa            000S '0ha  I   ' 0 ha I S         b      i    '0 ha  I x  I    mw ha I S  b000 ha I S    'ADO ha  I S  I '0O ha I  'm00 haS   '000 ha l 
Cotton            37,8            39,8           41,8            43,8           45,9           47,8            49,9           51,9          53,9          56,0   24
Groundnuts        48,3   27      49,7   27       51,2   27       52,8   27      54,3   27      56,0    27      57,6    27    59,4  27    61,2  27    63,0   27
maize             59,8            60,8           61,9            62,9           64,1           65,5            66,9           68,3           69,9         71,6   31
Cowpeas           32,2   18       33,2   18      34,1   18       35,2   18      36,2   18    37,3    18        38,4    18    39,6  18    40,8  18    42,0   18
Rice               0,6             0,6            0,6             0,6            0,6            0,6             0,6            0,6           0,6           0,6
Tobacco            0.1            0.1             0.1             0,1            0,1            0.1             0.1            0.1           0.1           0 1
Totat            178 8|    |    18421    |    189,71    I    195f41    |   201,21    |  207,31           |   213,51       |  219,91        226,51    |  233,31 100
0



BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Actual/Projected Crop Production PYO (1983)-PY20 (2003)
(metric tons)
Production1  PY 0  I PY 1| PY 2 I PY 3 | PY 4 | PY 51 PY 6 | PY 71 PY 8| PY 9  PY 10|PY 11|PY t12PY 13|PY 14|PY 15|PY 16|PY 17| PY 181 PY 19 | PY 20
84     85     86      87   188   1 89    90    91    92    93    94      95   196    97    98    99   100   I 01           02   103
Cotton       5,12   5,25  16,01  11,50  23,70  13,70 18,73  18,91 35,05 32,70 34,70  36,6  38,6  40,5  42,5  44,5  46,4  48,4  50,3   52,3   54,3
Groundnuts  28,33  18,36 32,24  37,19  24,27 17,47 32,08  30,70 29,74 33,70  31,3  32,3  33,2  34,2  35,3  36,3  37,4  38,5  39,7   40,9   42,1
Maize        46,20  45,53 54,92  53,81  42,81  36,54 52,85  55,70 44,70 64,69  47,8  48,4  49,2  50,1  50,9  51,9  53,0  54,1  55,3   56,6   57,9
Cowpeas      10,15  11,14  17,19  13,46  10,81  10,42 13,35  16,30 15,51 18.81  15,8  16,3  16,8  17,3  17,8  18,4  18,9  19,5  20,1   20,7   21,3                        1
Un
Rice         0,62   0,54   0,39   0,26   0,21   0,27  0,46   1,03  1,80  1,33   1,5   1,5   1,5   1,5   1,5   1,5   1,5   1,5   1,5    1,5    1,5
Tobacco      0,16   0,08  0,14   0,20   0,13  0,10  0,11   0,02  0,02  0,02  0,05  0,05  0,05  0,05  0,05  0,05  0,05  0,05  0,05   0,05   0,05
0
I-'
U'l



BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Use of Inputs
Actual/Projected PYO (1983) - PY20 (2003)
PY 0      PY 1    PT 2   PY 3   PY 4   PY 5   PY 6   PY 7   PY 8   PY 9   PY 10  PY 11  PY 12  PT 13  PY 14 PY 1S  PY 16 PY 17 PY I18PY 19 PY
Iwnt_ots (unt)
tough             0           0      14      0      27     4       32     27     32      26      29      29     29     29      29   29    29    29   29   29
ULV praer         0         672    898  1,103  1,125  1,044    830    581  1,401  1,193   1,322   1,396  1,470  1,544   1,617 1,695  1,765  1,847 1,9161,990  2,
ilizers (ton.)
otton comptex UPK   0      1,326  2,033  2,723  2,955  2,595  3,262  2,893  4,117  4,348   4,826   5,095  5,365  5,634   5,904 6,187 6,43  6,726 6,9967,266 7,54
rea                0         387    808  1,044    907    848    m7    875  1,357  1,421   1,311   1,349  1,391  1,434   1,475 1,521  1,566  1,615 1,6621,711  1,7
aotssiu. chloride  0          25    102    160    197       51     25     94    107    143      137    145    152    160    168   176   183   191  199  206   21
riplet perph       0          31     25    120      45     14       9    156    255    311      270    279    287    295    304   313   323   332  343  353
ruecticide  ('000 ittres)
tton & cow peas   0       117.8  232.6  258.4  301.1  258.5  290.7  250.0  366.5  364.3   363.3  379.5  395.8  411.5  428.3 4S.1  461.4 478.8 496.1513.5  531.
Ip      soeda    (tms)
ixe               0       22.05  34.U   34.06  28.71  41.96  43.81  76.96  67.53   37.3    49.6   50.2   51.1   52.0   52.8  53.9  55.0  56.2 57.4 58.7  60.
rouduruts         0                       0.49  11.00   3.17  14.49  15.75  11.24    7.9    12.2   12.6   13.0   13.4   13.8  14.2  14.6  15.0  15.5 16.0  16.
ice               0                       0.04   0.18   0.51    1.14       0      0       0     0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4  0.4  0.4   0.
t N
0 
'1
I-



BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Production and Yields (1984 - 1992)
PYO   PY i   PY2    PY3    PY4           PY5       PY 6    PY7    PY 8    PY9
1984    1985    1986    1987      1988      1989     1990    1991    1992
Cotton
Area ('000 ha)       6.50   7.84    12.78   18.13   18.73      15.38    22.79   20.33   28.04    37.30
Prod. ('000t)        5.12   5.25    16.01    11.50   23.70     13.70     18.73   18.91   35.05    32.70
Yields (kg/ha)       788    670    1,252     634    1,265        891      822     930   1,250       877
Farmers ('000)                     12,800  15,700   16,400    18,100   25,300  33,200  34,900   36,800
Area/farmer (ha)                     1.00    1.15    1.14       0.85     0.90    0.61    0.80      1.01
Prod./farmer (kg)                   1,250    732    1,445       757       740     569   1,004       889
Price farms Ist              100     100      110     110        100      105      95      100      100
choice (FCFA/kg)
Project pMsent maxi: 1,445 x 36,800 = 53,176 or 53,200 t
Additional production (low point of curve)
PYO to PY1      =  +0.1
PY1 toPY3       =  +6.2
PY3 to PY5      =  +2.2
PY5 toPY6       =  +5.0
PY6 to PY7      =  +0.2          I
13.7: 7 = 1.90 i.e. 1.96 x I1 = 21,560 21.600 t i.e. 32,700 + 21,600 = 54,300 t
Study: Fonds de stabilisation = 1996             -40,000 t
Prom mission prediction =32,700 + 1,9  x 4       = 40,540 t                                                    00
!                                                          |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,~~~~~~L )
-  .0



