Document of                           IP 
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3422-BEN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$20.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR THE
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 18, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of.
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =     CFAF
U.S.$1.00           =     CFAF 340 1/
CFAF 1,000         =      U.S.$2.94
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  -   December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                       =3.23 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =     0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   =      0.386 square mile (sq.mi.)
1 metric ton (m ton)        =     2,204-pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)              =     2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (m3)          =     1.30B cubic yards
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BBD        -  Banque Beninoise de Developpement
CARDER     -  Centre d'Action Regionale pour le Developpement Rural
CATS       -  Cooperatives Agricoles de Type Socialiste
CCCE       -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CNCA       -  Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
FAC        -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED        -  Fonds Europeen de Developpement
MDRAC      -  Ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Action Cooperative
DEP        -  Direction des Etudes et de la Planification du Ministere du
Developpement Rural et de l'Action Cooperative
PMEU       -  Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
SONACEB    -  Societe Nationale pour la Commercialisation et l'Exportation du
Benin
SONAGRI    -  Societe Nationale pour la Production Agricole
SOPROCA    -  Societe Provinciale de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles
SONAPRA    -  Societe Nationale pour la Promotion Agricole
1/ 9 The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio
of FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           People's Republic of Benin
Amount:             SDR 18.7 million (US$20.0 million equivalent)
'erms:              Standard IDA terms.  The proceeds of the credit would be
passed on to the project executing agencies as grants.
Co-lenders:         Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC)
Project
Description:        The principal objectives of the proposed project are to
improve the level of rural incomes and to increase
production of both export and food crops through strength-
ening and suppport of institutions, integrated with applied
research, seed production, extension, cooperative
training, and social services.
The project will be implemented over a five-and-one-half
year period. At full development, it is expected to reach
some 38,000 farm families (about 50 % of the Province's
total), and to generate an incremental production of 5,700
t of cotton, 5,200 t of maize, 4,000 t of groundnuts,
3,300 t of cowpeas, 400 t of paddy, and 200 t of tobacco.
Benefits
and Risks:          The project's principal quantifiable benefit would derive
from the incremental production of cotton, food crops and
livestock products, yielding an estimated additional income
to participating farmers at the end of the implementation
period, estimated at US$2.7 million from cotton, and US$4.2
million from food crops (in 1981 prices). Unquantifiable
benefits include better financial management of Government
institutions, enhancement of their capability to plan and
implement development activities, and the establishment of
a firm basis for adaptive food crop and cotton research,
and for seed production.
There are no major technical risks associated with the
project, as all technical proposals have been proven in
other ecologically similar West African areas, and in Benin
itself. The principal risks are in financial mis-
management, staff turnovers, and institutional organiza-
tion. However, these will be minimized by paying
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
_.~~~~~~~



- ii -
particular attention to technical and organizational
training programs, incentives and bonuses, and the
engagement of a strong technical assistance team.
Estimated Costs
(including taxes)                                        US$ million
Local    Foreign    Total
CARDER                                             2.5       5.9        8.4
Training                                           0.3       1.5        1.8
SONAPRA                                            0.1       0.3        0.4
Applied research and seed production               1.3       1.6        2.9
Lowland development and water supply              0.7        0.3        1.0
Monitoring and evaluation                          0.2       0.3        0.5
Supplies and inputs                               0.5        3.0        3.5
Ginning plants - maintenance                      0.3        0.5        0.8
MDRAC - DEP                                        0.4       1.0        1.4
BASE COST             6.3       14.4      20.7
Contingencies
Physical                                      0.4        0.8        1.1
Price                                         3.3        3.9       7.3
Total Contingencies        3.7        4.7       8.4
TOTAL COST                10.0       19.1      29.1
of which taxes             2.7         -        2.7
TOTAL COST
(net of taxes)             7.3       19.1      26.4
Recurrent National Fertilizer/
Insecticide Imports                                _        33.6       33.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST
(including taxes)         10.0      52.7       62.7



- iii -
Financing Plan                          US$ million
Total    Percent
IDA          20.0 1/    32
FAC            3.7        6
CCCE          6.5        10
GOVERNMENT    9.9        16
FARMERS      22.6        36
1/  Includes an advance of US$281,000 under the Project Preparation Facility.
Estimated
Disbursements:                           US$ million
FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
Annual                  1.4    2.4    2.9    3.7    4.3    3.8    1.5
Cumulative              1.4    3.8    6.7   10.4   14.7   18.5   20.0
Economic Rate of Return:      22%
Staff Appraisal Report:       3157/BEN, dated November 18, 1982
Map:  IBRD-16246






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$20.0 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR THE ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the People's Republic of Benin for an amount in various
currencies equivalent to Special Drawing Rights 18.7 million (US$20.0 million)
on standard IDA terms to help finance the Zou Province Rural Development
Project. Additional financing for the project would be provided on a parallel
basis by the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) for the equivalent of
US$3.7 million, and on a joint basis by the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE) for the equivalent of US$6.5 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The latest economic report on Benin (Report No. 2079-BEN) was issued
in May, 1979. The paragraphs below are based on this report, but include
updated information provided by an economic mission which visited the country
in June, 1982. A new country economic memorandum is being prepared. Annex I
provides basic country data.
Introduction
3.       After independence in 1960, a period of instability characterized by
frequent changes in Government prevailed until the revolution in 1972, which
brought to power the military Government of Lieutenant-Colonel Kerekou. The
new Government committed itself to removing foreign dominance from the modern
sector, nationalizing the major industries and strengthening Government
involvement in the agricultural sector. While these measures initially
disrupted the economy, one of the new policy's strong points was its conserva-
tive public finance posture. A tight control over expenditures resulted in a
current budget surplus. Foreign borrowing financed the limited public invest-
ment program, and debt service ratios were low.
4.       Benin has now enjoyed a comparatively long period of political
stability under a one-party system. Following the adoption of a new
Constitution, President Kerekou was confirmed by the National Assembly in
early 1980 for a three-year term. He has in turn appointed a Government
composed mainly of civilians.
5.       In the last few years, the Government initiated a large program of
public investment aimed at developing the industrial sector. These
investments, concentrated in a few large projects which are slated to begin
operations in the coming year (cement, sugar, petroleum), may propel Benin's
economy into a phase of accelerated growth. But Benin's near-term prospects
should be assessed cautiously, because they are dependent upon a few key



- 2 -
factors: the neighbouring markets (Nigeria and Niger), the success of these
major industrial projects, and the continuation of prudent fiscal policies.
Recent Economic Developments
6.       Benin's economic performance has been relatively modest during the
last five years. Preliminary estimates of GDP growth for the 1976-81 period
reveal a low level of growth of between 2.5 and 3.0 percent per year in real
terms, compared with a population growth of 2.7 percent per annum. Benin
remains a poor country with an estimated GNP per capita of $310 (1980).
Between 1976 and 1981 exports of goods and non-factor services increased from
$132 million to $300 million, but because of an even higher rise in imports
and deteriorating terms of trade, the resource gap increased from about 20
percent of GDP during 1976-79 to 37 percent in 1980-81. Up to 1979 much of
this was financed by a growing flow of workers' remittances and capital
grants; after 1980, medium and long-term borrowing (mostly project-related)
increased substantially, external debt having reached US$719 million
(including undisbursed) at end-1981 (against US$157 million at end-1976).
7.       Agriculture, which generates about 45 percent of GDP, has shown quite
a modest performance since 1970, in part because of unfavorable weather con-
ditions and in part because of labor migration towards the capital and
Nigeria.  After two good years of production (1978, 1979), food crop output in
1981 was only 3 percent higher than in 1976, the growth in maize and yam
output offsetting a decline in cassava output.  Exports of food crops to
Nigeria have continued at high levels, resulting in higher prices for food
crops sold in the internal market.  Cash crop output is 30 percent lower
(1980) than in the early 1970s. Cotton peaked in 1972 at 50,000 tons, but has
since fallen to around 20,000 tons. Palm oil production is still recovering
from the 1976/77 drought. Institutional disruptions, unremunerative producer
prices, lack of financial resources, and inadequate management and organiza-
tional capability are the main reasons for the unsatisfactory performance of
these crops.
8.       The secondary sector is still largely undeveloped, contributing about
13 percent to GDP. Manufacturing -- mostly processing of oil palm and cotton
products and import-substitution activities -- has faced several problems
since key enterprises were nationalized. Many of the state-owned enterprises
are experiencing operational and financial problems, and the share of
manufacturing value added in GDP has actually declined from 9% in 1975 to 5%
in 1981. Construction activities have benefited from the investment program
of the Government, their growth offsetting the stagnation of the manufacturing
sector. In the mid-1970s Benin concentrated on nationalizing key enterprises
and engaged in little new investment. Key projects emerged in the late 1970s,
forming the basis for the 1977/78-1979/80 development plan. Three large
industrial projects -- the Save sugar complex, the Onigbolo cement plant, and
exploration in the Seme oilfield -- account for more than half of recent
public investment; aggregate investment reached 35 percent of GDP in 1981.



- 3 -
9.       The tertiary sector (commerce, transport, public services) accounts
for about 42 percent of GDP. More than half of this is in commercial acti-
vities, which mostly remain in private hands. The sustained growth of these
activities in recent years attests to the dynamism of the private sector, and
reflects the important role of Benin as a trading center. The port of Cotonou
has traditionally provided access to the sea for landlocked Niger and the
western part of Nigeria.
10.      A prudent budgetary policy of tightly controlling current expendi-
tures, limiting salary increases, and holding down maintenance expenditures,
has enabled the Government to run current surpluses averaging about CFAF 7
billion during the 1976-80 period. However, owing chiefly to substantial and
rising investment expenditures, the overall deficit increased in 1980 to CFAF
15 billion, nearly four -times the average level of the preceding four years.
In 1981, an increase of 55% in revenues (linked to buoyant Nigerian demand for
re-exported consumer goods which pay Beninese customs duties) offset the
growth in current and investment expenditures (36% and 55% respectively), so
that the overall deficit eased to CFAF 10.5 million. This deficit was
financed totally by foreign borrowing, which reached CFAF 14 billion in 1981.
11.      The deteriorating financial position of major state enterprises is a
source of concern for the Government. The Treasury has not so far been
directly affected by the effects of substantial cash flow losses of the
sector, because the two Government banks have continued to extend credit in
most cases -- credit to public enterprises represented 60 percent of total
bank credit in 1981. Owing to the cdifficulties most enterprises are facing to
service their debts (both domestic and external), direct subsidies from the
Treasury are likely to be required soon. To deal with the problem, the
Government has established a new Ministry for the Inspection of Public and
Semi-Public enterprises (to supervise their operations), engaged in extensive
replacement of management personnel, and implemented measures to tighten their
access to credit. Bank assistance has been requested to help the Government
in rehabilitating the public enterprise sector.
12.      The Government establishes the prices of export crops and of certain
industrial commodities produced by state enterprises. Food crop prices are
for the most part market-determined. Owing to the Nigerian demand for food
crops (mainly maize and yams) food prices in urban areas have gone up substan-
tially in recent years. Increases in consumer prices are estimated at 16
percent per year between 1979-81. Public salaries, however, have remained at
the 1974 fixed level. In early 1980 the Government planned a number of
measures aimed at raising real incomes of wage earners, and minimum wage rates
were raised by 15 percent in the private sector and by 11 percent in the
public sector. These measures have not yet been implemented owing to
budgetary constraints. The decline in real wages has contributed to the
development of a considerable parallel job market.
13.      The Government is committed to promoting social welfare, and to
developing social sectors. But lack of money and trained personnel have
hampered efforts to improve conditions in health, education and housing.
Benin devotes a third of its current expenditures to education. However,
there are severe shortages in buildings, supplies and teachers, and access to



- 4-
education remains limited. Health is the sector most affected by the lack of
public resources. Benin faces severe shortages of medical personnel and
facilities to cope with the widespread health problems, the most important
being leprosy and parasitical diseases. Access to safe water and sanitation
conditions are poor. Assisted by international aid, the Government is seeking
to solve the most serious problems, but the meager resources available for
recurrent costs financing is still the major constraint to the development of
Benin's social sectors.
14.      Benin's balance of payments position is characterized by a large and
growing deficit on goods and services, financed by foreign grants and external
borrowing, with the latter increasing in recent years. During 1980-81 the
trade balance worsened considerably, because of sharply higher imports of
capital equipment for the major industrial projects. The 1981 current deficit
reached CFAF 89 million (35 percent of GDP). A substantial increase in
capital flows--mainly finance for large projects--led the overall balance to a
surplus of CFAF 14.7 billion.
Development Plan
15.      Benin's planning capacity remains weak.  The first Development Plan
(1978-80), issued in October, 1977, has achieved less than 50 percent of its
objectives. Principal difficulties include inadequate project preparation,
coordination, and control over execution, as well as delays in obtaining
foreign financial commitments. Recently, however, such commitments have been
accelerated, and total public investment is likely to be around US$750 million
in the five-year period 1978-82. As a result, the ratio of investment to GDP
is estimated to have risen from 20 percent of GDP in 1976 to 35 percent in
1981, with most of the increase accounted for by investment in the large
projects mentioned above.
16.      For 1981/82, the Government has prepared an Interim Plan for Invest-
ment -- consisting mainly of projects initiated during (or included in) the
first investment plan. A second five-year development plan (1983-87) was
originally scheduled for completion in early 1982, but is still under pre-
paration. The most recent planning document is the Ten-Year Plan (1980-90),
presented to the United Nations' Least Developed Countries' (LLDCs) Conference
in Paris last year. This plan foresees a doubling of real GDP by 1990, a
target which is optimistic in light of recent performance and natural, human,
and financial recource constraints. Benin has decided to convene a donors'
conference in February 1983, to solicit foreign assistance. The Bank was
invited and has agreed to attend.
Prospects
17.      The medium-term economic outlook in Benin depends in large measure on
two factors: the success of the big industrial projects which are soon to come
on stream and the economic performance of (and Benin's access to) neighboring
countries. An optimistic scenario shows a favorable outcome for the cement



and sugar projects (whose production is expected to be largely absorbed by
Nigeria) as well as for the Seme oil field. This would enable an adequate
servicing of external debt obligations, and increased public revenues, allow-
ing for the much needed increase in wages, maintenance of public physical
assets and rehabilitation of the social sectors. Prospects in agriculture
will depend on remunerative pricing for export crops and greater attention to
food crop production. In the long term, growth could slow unless the
Government is able to channel resources and orient its economic development
programs towards the development of food and cash crops.
18.      Benin's public finances may be subject to greater pressures during
the 1981-85 period than during the preceding five years. With a growing
capital stock to maintain, tendencies to increase recruitment in the public
sector, and pressures to prevent a further drop in real incomes, current
expenditures are likely to rise faster in the future than in the recent past,
leading to growing budget deficits on current operations. The success of the
large projects will be critical for Benin's balance of payments position,
since the new exports would greatly outweigh traditional exports of cash
crops, could be an important source of Government revenues based on local
productive activities, and would preserve Benin's favorable debt-servicing
record. These large projects could provide substantial and sustained benefits
to the budget and the balance of payments. Whether they do so will depend on
their ability to produce efficiently, and to compete in the Nigerian market.
19.      Reflecting increased investment, Benin's external debt (including
undisbursed) rose from US$441 million in 1979 to US$719 million by end-1981,
of which about 50 percent was held by commercial banks. Of total external
borrowing, about 40 percent went to financing the major cement, oil, and sugar
projects, and nearly 90 percent of the US$330 million committed during 1980
was provided by private banks, almost exclusively for industrial projects.
The ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services is estimated to
have risen from 3 percent in 1980 to 7 percent in 1981, and is projected to
approach 20 percent in the mid-1980s, largely on the basis of debt already
contracted. Although this is comparatively high, up to two-thirds of the debt
service burden is accounted for by industrial projects which are joint
ventures with Nigeria and whose debt is guaranteed by the Governments of Benin
and Nigeria. Nevertheless, considering the magnitude and the continuing
uncertainties of these projects, great caution is required in contracting
additional foreign debt, particularly on hard terms.
20.      In view of Benin's low per-capita income, the growing need for exter-
nal funding of priority projects in an expanding economy, and the narrow
export base, it will be necessary to increase the volume of foreign financing
on concessionary terms. Benin is expected to be able to finance no more than
10-15 percent of a reduced public investment program. Foreign donors should
therefore continue to provide a large share of total project costs, including
some financing of local costs.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN
21.      To date, the Bank Group has extended seventeen credits to Benin
totalling US$153.2 million, including two supplementary credits. Four of the
credits were for agriculture (23 percent of total lending), six for road
construction and maintenance (38 percent), two for education and energy (power
and petroleum), and one each for port expansion, urban water supply, and
development of small-scale enterprises. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank Group operations in Benin, as of August 31, 1982, as well as notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
22.      In the past, the Bank Group's dialogue with Benin was limited and
based on a case-by-case approach to lending operations. More recently,
however, the policy and lending dialogue has intensified, and Government has
displayed considerable interest in, and responsiveness to, Bank lending and
policy assistance.
23.      Two areas of particular importance are emerging, in which the lending
and policy assistance to Benin are likely to expand in the medium term. The
first is the energy sector, in which the assistance effort is designed to
expand energy resources and to help in the formulation of sound national and
regional energy policies. Engineering and technical assi-stance credits for
hydroelectric power and for oilfield development, approved in FY82, are
expected to form the basis for larger lending operations in the near future --
the Nangbeto hydroelectric scheme, a regional project jointly undertaken with
Togo, and the further development of the Seme oilfield.
24.      The second area is the provision of assistance to Government to
improve economic planning and to rehabilitate the public enterprise sector,
and is in response to Government requests for such assistance. Discussions
are presently in progress, which will lead to the preparation of a technical
assistance project designed to strengthen Benin's macroeconomic planning and
public finance administration. A second project would concern itself with the
reorganization and restructuring of major state enterprises. Other assistance
to Benin is expected to continue in the agriculture sector, as well as
projects in transport and the urban sector.
25.      The time lag between credit signing and effectiveness has averaged
about one year in Benin, owing to cumbersome administrative procedures that
came into effect with the promulgation of a new constitu tion and the election
of a National Assembly in 1980.  Following discussions with Bank staff, the
Government has adopted new procedures that should greatly reduce this time
lag.
26.      Project disbursement profiles in Benin vary from one sector to
another. However, experience to date indicates that a common problem leading
to delays has been an inability by Government to make timely contributions of
counterpart funds. This problem has recently been exacerbated by the diffi-
cult budgetary position, with the country moving into a period of stringency.



- 7 -
PART III   -   THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
27.      Agriculture is the most important sector of the Beninese economy.  It
employs some 70 percent of the active population, and provides 45% of GDP and
nearly 55% of the country's total foreign exchange earnings.
28.      Benin's approximately 350,000 farm families work holdings that
average 1.2 ha in the densely populated southern provinces of Atlantique, Mono
and Oueme, and 2.8 ha in the sparsely populated northern provinces of Atacora
and Borgou. About 18% of available land is cultivated in the south with two
cropping seasons, compared with only 4% in the north with one cropping
season. The sector is predominantly subsistence-oriented, producing yams,
cassava, sorghum, maize, beans, and small quantities of rice and tobacco. The
main cash crops are palm products, cotton and groundnuts, while maize is both
a subsistence and cash crop. Livestock production has grown in recent years
with a population estimated at about 780,000 head of cattle, 1.7 million sheep
and goats, and 600,000 pigs.  Cattle production is concentrated in the nor-
thern provinces of Atacora and Borgou. Sheep and goats exist in all areas,
and pigs predominate in the south.
29.      Zou Province, +he proposed project area in the southern part of
Benin, covers 18,700 km or 17 percent of the country's total land area. Its
population is estimated at about 570,000 (1979 census) of which 550,000 people
(76,000 farm families) live in the rural areas. Crop production is diversi-
fied; maize is cultivated on more than 30% of the area, followed by groundnuts
(20%), cassava (15%), cowpeas, yam, sorghum, cotton and rice (25%). Histori-
cally, the Zou Province has produced nearly 40% of the national cotton crop
(22,000 ha in 1972/73). About 30 percent of Zou farm families grow cotton
(0.4 ha on average) and most grow maize and groundnut as cash crops (1.5 ha)
with the rest in subsistence crops (1.5 ha). Livestock production in Zou is
less important. The estimated cattle population of 60,000 head represents
less than 10 percent of the national total, and there are about 400,000 small
ruminants.
30.      Disruptions caused by profound and numerous institutional changes
have resulted in sluggish growth in the sector during the past decade. Modern
cotton production, which was introduced in Benin in 1963 under bilateral
assistance, progressed at a commendable rate--5,000 tons in 1965 to 50,000
tons in 1972--but subsequently fell, reaching a low of about 16,000 tons in
1976/77, despite efforts made under the joint IDA-FAC Zou-Borgou Rural Devel-
opment Project (FY72). This decline was partly a consequence of sweeping
political changes in 1972, which brought about a fundamental restructuring of
the sector, ended much expatriate technical assistance and created havoc in
the organization of cotton production. Production has since partly recovered,
rising to 18,000 tons in 1978/79 and to 25,000 tons in 1979/80. However,
problems with input supply and unremunerative producer prices caused it to
decline again to 16,000 tons in 1980/81. Because cotton was less attractive,
farmers switched to production of other cash crops, although maize production
continued to expand in response to growing domestic demand and border trade
with Nigeria. Production of groundnuts has increased steadily for the same
reason, while production of rice, although still relatively small, has grown



-8-
during 1976-81, in part through improved irrigation. Production of most other
food crops has been developing slowly but has been sufficient to meet growing
domestic demand.
Sector Policy and Institutions
31.      The Government has become increasingly aware of the priority of the
agriculture sector for the country's socio-economic development. This was
reflected in the country's Three-Year Development Plan of 1978-80 which
foresaw investments of over US$300 million (one-third of total Plan invest-
ment) in agriculture (including agro-industries), and in Government's recent
emphasis on institution-building and project preparation. Government policy
for rural develoment has three main objectives: firstly, to achieve self-
sufficiency in food production by gradually eliminating food imports and
promoting food crop exports to other African countries; secondly, to develop
domestic markets by increasing incomes and by linking agricultural production
with agro-industries; and thirdly, to provide an economic surplus to help
finance imports of capital goods. This is considered a sound overall
strategy. The Borgou Province Rural Development Project (FY81), the first
large integrated rural development project, aims at, and is a significant step
towards, achieving the Plan's objectives. The proposed Zou 'Province Rural
Development Project is designed to reinforce and to continue these efforts.
32.      Responsibility for the implementation of rural development policy
rests with the Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action (MDRAC),
and the Ministry of State Farms, Livestock and Fisheries. Regional production
efforts are the responsibility of the CARDERs (Centres d'Action Regionale pour
le Developpement Rural) created in 1976 and located in each of the six
provinces. The CARDERs are responsible to the Ministry of Rural Development,
and group the regional representatives of the central directorates of agricul-
ture, livestock production, forestry, rural engineering, and fishing. The
CARDER directors also act as advisors to the Prefects of the provinces, who
chair their Boards of Trustees. The CARDERs provide agricultural inputs and
extension services, maintain some rural roads, and handle official primary
marketing of selected crops. The CARDERs have suffered from lack of funds and
a shortage of adequately trained management and field staff, and their organi-
zation is cumbersome and inefficient. The management and efficiency of
CARDER-Borgou have improved significantly under the Borgou RDP. Similar
measures would be taken under the proposed project to increase the effective-
ness of the CARDER-Zou as executing agency.
33.      Responsibility for agricultural credit is with the CNCA (Caisse
Nationale de Credit Agricole) which, directed by a national committee composed
of representatives of MDRAC, the Ministries of Finance and Commerce, and
various State agencies, extends credit to state enterprises, the CARDERs, and
to individuals in association with regional and local credit organizations,
the Caisses Regionales de Credit Agricole Mutuel and the Caisses Locales de
Credit Agricole Mutuel. CNCA has had responsible management to date, and its
performance, although restricted by shortage of resources, has been effi-
cient. $0.3 million of the proposed credit will be passed on to CNCA under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, to provide
seasonal credit for inputs and medium term credit for animal-drawn
equipment. CNCA will charge an interest rate of not less than 11 percent for
these credits; this interest rate is considered adequate for the early phases



- 9 -
of the project, but would be adjusted as necessary in subsequent years in
agreement with the Association. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
would be a condition of disbursements for this category of expenditures
(Section 3.01(b) and Schedule Il, para. 3 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
34.      Fooderop marketing is handled mainly by the private sector and is
efficient. The Government announces official prices for such foodcrops as
maize and sorghum. The official prices effectively serve as floor prices for
these commodities. When market prices fall low enough to reach the floor
price, farmers may choose to sell limited quantities of foodgrains to the
CARDERs. Except for the low floor price, which is rarely reached, prices for
fooderops are determined by the open market. A significant percentage of
domestic foodcrop production is exported unofficially to Nigeria.
35.      State organizations are responsible for the marketing and processing
of export crops. The Government has recently decided to merge FAS (Autonomous
Stabilization Fund), SONAGRI (input imports and cotton ginning), and SONACEB
(cotton lint exports) into a new organization, SONAPRA (Societe Nationale pour
la Promotion Agricole), with a single management structure. This reorgani-
zation appears to be a sound decision, and no major operational changes are
expected that could have a negative impact on project execution. The approval
by Government of SONAPRA's statutes, satisfactory to the Association, and the
presentation of SONAPRA's organigram and opening balance sheet would be a
condition of effectiveness of the credit (Section 6.01 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). The FAS was an agricultural price stabilization fund
created to protect producers against swings in export crop prices. Costs were
tabulated on a bareme, which is a statement of the standardized costs of each
step in the production and marketing chain of a crop. In the past, FAS
suffered from cash flow problems, due to the Government's heavy subsidization
of inputs. In the 1981-82 agricultural season, the Government lost $1.5
million on input subsidies. Because of this strain on public finances, the
Government has not been able to import an adequate supply of inputs to satisfy
farmers' needs. The financing of recurrent national inputs proposed under
this project should help remedy this situation.
Past Experience in the Sector
36.      The Zou-Borgou Cotton Project (Credit 307, FY72) was an attempt to
stimulate basic production but performed disappointingly. The PCR and PPAR
found that early in the project's execution unexpectedly strong economic
competition from fooderops made cotton less attractive to farmers. However,
project managers maintained the project's emphasis on cotton production.
Furthermore, agricultural institutions were frequently changed, thereby
reducing experience-building and efficiency. Learning from this, it was
concluded that subsequent projects should be designed to focus on a range of
crops, and that a significant component of such projects should be institu-
tional strengthening. Consequently, a Technical Assistance Project (Credit
716, FY77) was designed to strengthen SONAGRI institutionally and to prepare
proposals for future projects, including both the Borgou and the proposed Zou
Province Rural Development Projects. The Borgou Rural Development Project
(Credit 1127, FY81) was designed with a multi-crop approach, a strong



- 10 -
technical assistance component, and material support for institution-
building. After one year of operations the project is progressing satis-
factorily; appraisal production targets are being met and institutional
strengthening is occurring as expected; the financial difficulties encountered
in delivering sufficient quanities of fertilizers and pesticides would be
corrected under the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.      The proposed project is similar to the Borgou RDP.  Within the broad
objective of rehabilitating production of cotton and food crops, the project
concentrates on a narrower ecological and economic zone.  The project was
appraised in November, 1981.  Negotiations were held in Washington, October 12
to 18, 1982, with a Benin delegation led by Mr. Gedeon Dassoundo, Minister of
Rural Development and Cooperative Action. Staff Appraisal Report No.
3157/BEN, dated November 18, 1982 is being circulated separately. Annex III
contains supplementary project data. A PPF advance of US$2B1,000 was made in
January, 1982, to finance training and technical assistance for project
preparation and to facilitate an early start-up in project execution.
38.      The project's main objectives are to improve the level of rural
incomes and to expand agricultural production of both export and food crops in
the Zou Province. These objectives would be achieved through the following
principal actions:
(i) strengthening of the CARDER-Zou, the executing agency, through
reorganization, technical assistance, systematic staff training,
provision of vehicles, office space and equipment,, and organization
of a monitoring and evaluation unit, and technical and organizational
assistance to cotton ginneries;
(ii) strengthening of farmer support services and farmer cooperative
organizations through improved extension, training, input and seed
supply, ox-drawn equipment, credit and applied research;
(iii)  strengthening of SONAPRA through improved financial management,
provision of transport, operational support and technical assistance,
to enable it to better organize input supply and cotton lint
marketing;
(iv) strengthening of the MDRAC's capacity to formulate strategic options
for further agricultural development, and specifications of
investment proposals.
(v)  infrastructure development, bottomland rehabilitation and well
construction;
(vi) providing medium term credit for animal-drawn equipment;
(vii)  consulting services to carry out studies relating to crop development
and to improved organization and management of sector institutions,
and preparation of a possible follow-up project; and



1 1 -
(viii) financing of recurrent input costs over a transitional period, to
support Government decision to eliminate subsidies.
Project Implementation
39.      The project would be carried out over a five-and-a-half year period,
by the CARDER-Zou, whose Director would become Project Manager. He would
report directly to the Minister of Rural Development and Cooperative Action.
For input supply and primary seed cotton marketing, CARDER-Zou would establish
close cooperation with SONAPRA, and inputs would be distributed through vil-
lage farmer cooperatives. This approach is expected to increase the potential
and efficiency of the extension services and facilitate the operation of the
"Training and Visit" system.
40.      An international cotton lint marketing consultancy would be provided
to SONAPRA and a cotton sector account would be established within SONAPRA to
consolidate for the first time all information related to Benin's cotton
production, including input acquisition and price stabilization. By June 30,
1984, a study would be completed recommending the steps to be taken in
assuring optimal management of the sector. The elaboration of terms of
reference for this study, acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01(e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
41.      With the proposed Zou Province Rural Development Project about 75% of
Beninese agriculture would be covered by integrated rural development project
activity. In order to capitalize on these projects, MDRAC now needs to
strengthen its capacity to undertake more strategic sectoral planning leading
to the definition of new development options and setting of priorities. At
the time of preparation of the Zou and Borgou Province RDPs, the Bureau des
Etudes of SONAGRI had partially performed this task at the level required,
with the support of the IDA-financed Technical Assistance Project. Now, the
Direction des Etudes et Planification (DEP) within MDRAC has been designated
by Government to perform the function of conducting strategic planning on a
national basis, and initiating in a systematic way the preparation of
investment programs to be executed under subsequent five-year plans. Funds
would be made available under the proposed project to reinforce DEP in its
expanded role; specifically, to provide the services of two technical
assistance staff for a total of five years, about twenty man-months of short-
term consultancy services, overseas training for senior Beninese technical
staff, and office equipment and transportation.
42.      The experience of past ginning seasons in Benin has revealed con-
siderable weaknesses in technical and operational support to cotton ginning
operations at a central level, as well as in the actual management and tech-
nical performance of the country's three operating ginneries. In addition,
with the recent absorption of SONAGRI into SONAPRA and the transfer of ginnery
management to the CARDERS, Benin's limited central operational and planning
expertise in cotton ginneries has been lost through retirements and
resignations. For these reasons, support to this highly specialized activity
is needed. Therefore, a consultancy mission, to be financed under the Borgou
RDP, would visit Benin in the first half of 1983 to study the situation and
propose the creation of a central ginnery support unit to be financed under
the proposed project. The initial function of the unit would be to carry out



- 12 -
a technical analysis and evaluation of the ginneries with the objective of
making their oDerations more reliable and efficient. It is anticipated that
an internationally recruited ginnery specialist would work in Benin for about
four years and his qualifications, experience would be acceptable to IDA.
43.      The CARDER-Zou has operated in the past through seven divisions
organized in 22 sections headquartered at Bohicon. Headquarters management
would be strengthened by appointment of two Deputy Project Managers (one
technical, the other financial) and by the introduction of aL decentralized,
operational management system. Duplicate services would be combined reducing
the number of divisions from 7 to 4: finance and administration, extension
services, land use service, and animal husbandry. Superfluous subsector
chiefs and extension agents would be reassigned, while the number of input
supply, credit and adult literacy officers would be increased at farmer level
to give better attention to these hitherto neglected services.
44.      Field organization of extension services would be reorganized in each
of the province's 15 districts. Each district would also be staffed with
specialized extension agents in the areas of home economics, adult literacy,
cooperatives, livestock development and animal traction. Upgrading field
organization by providing material support and retraining would be the overall
responsibility of the Technical Deputy Project Manager at CARDER-Zou head-
quarters. As an incentive, by June 30, 1983, a system of bonuses based on
individual performance for extension personnel within CARDERt-Zou would be
introduced, and staff salaries increased by December 31, 1983, to a level
comparable to those paid to state enterprise employees. CARDER-Zou management
would introduce a system of annual work plans and associated budgets for each
section and district as the basis for project implementation. Introduction of
this system, and submission of the first such acceptable work plan for
1983/84, would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b) of
draft Development Credit Agreement). CARDER-Zou would submit to IDA for
comments by December 31 of each year its proposed annual work plan and budget
for the following year. (Section 3.08 of draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). Government would prefinance operating expenses and recurrent costs of
the Zou project component through a revolving fund. Establishment of the
revolving fund account at CAA to be jointly financed by advances representing
pro-rata shares of IDA, CCCE and Government total contributions to the
project, and deposit of the Government's initial contribution (CFAF 68
million), would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of draft
Development Credit Agreemnt). Government would maintain a separate sub-
account with CAA for the fund advanced by IDA.
45.      The timely acquisition and distribution of production inputs is
particularly important for successful project implementation.   Government's
present budgetary situation does not permit it to provide timely financing for
the non-incremental fertilizer/insecticide requirements, thus threatening the
implementation of agricultural development country-wide. To assist Government
in implementing its policy of gradually eliminating its subsidy on both
fertilizer and insecticides, combined with a corresponding increase in
farmgate prices for seed cotton, IDA and CCCE would assist Covernment in
financing recurrent fertilizer and pesticide needs country-wide. (Section
4.03(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement). These price adjustments would
be announced annually not later than March 31, and this would be a condition
of disbursement against recurrent input expenditures. (Schedule 1, para 3, of



- 13 -
draft Development Credit Agreement). The proposed external financing for
recurrent expenditures would be gradually phased out over the project
disbursement period.
46.      Supplies of fertilizer and insecticides for cotton would be distri-
buted by SONAPRA to the level of district and communal stores throughout the
project area. To carry out its tasks, SONAPRA's operations would be
strengthened through reorganization and provision of transport equipment and
technical assistance. CARDER-Zou would assume ownership of the inputs, paying
SONAPRA with credit arranged through CNCA. Credit for seasonal inputs would
then be provided to farmers by CARDER-Zou's credit administrative staff.
Equipment for ox-drawn cultivation would also be made available on medium-term
credit, and CARDER-Zou staff would acquire the equipment directly from local
manufacturers.
47.      Agronomic and farming systems research would be pursued at the
research station at Niaouli and at substations throughout the province. It
would continue to be directed and conducted principally by Beninese staff with
adequate basic training, supported by technical assistance staff. Multiplica-
tion and preparation of seed for distribution to farmers would be managed by
the project's seed multiplication farm. Improved seed would be distributed to
farmers through the extension service. Initially, it would be sold to farmers
for cash at crop market value; later, charges would be introduced to cover
variable cost of production.
48.      The CARDER-Zou land use division's capacity to construct and maintain
community wells, and to develop bottomland would be re-established under the
proposed project, which would provide for the rebuilding of 100 wells, the
construction of 50 boreholes, and development of about 200 ha of bottom-
lands. The livestock and animal health division would also be strengthened
under the proposed project, to enable it to provide better and wider health
care and to introduce simple animal husbandry measures, such as nutrition and
hygiene, at the farm level.
49.      The project would provide for 45 man-years of specialist technical
personnel, whose skills are currently unavailable in Benin, to fill thirteen
positions for periods of three to five years. Some of these posts would be
line positions. The experience and qualifications of incumbents of these
positions would be acceptable to the Association (Section 3.04(a) of draft
Development Credit Agreement). The technical assistance effort would be
closely monitored on an annual basis with a view to gradually phasing out
expatriate assistance and replacing it with competent and qualified Beninese
personnel. Short-term consultancies for specialized activities, such as
monitoring and evaluation, bottomland development, livestock production,
agricultural research, and for studies, totalling about 84 man-months, would
also be provided.
50.      A project monitoring and evaluation unit (PMEU) would be established
at CARDER headquarters in Bohicon to monitor both the progress of project
execution and the impact of project activities on farmers (Section 3.06 (d)(i)
of draft Development Credit Agreement). Such information would later serve as
a basis for project evaluation, leading to recommendations for changes in
approach, and the identification of components for a possible future project.



- 14
Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
51.      Total project cost including taxes is estimated at US$62.7 million.
Of this, the cost of the rural development component in the Zou province
amounts to US$29.0 million with a foreign exchange component of US$19.0
million (65 percent). Taxes would amount to US$2.7 million, thus leaving
US$26.3 million net of taxes. The remaining project cost of US$33.6 million
equivalent represents the estimated CIF cost of total domestic needs of
insecticide and fertilizer from 1983-87, net of incremental requirements for
the Borgou, Zou and Atacora Provinces Rural Development Projects. Project
costs are based on end-1981 prices. Estimated costs include physical
contingencies of 5% on civil works, vehicles and equipment, and 10% on all
other costs (except personnel), and expected local and international price
increases applied on baseline costs and physical contingencies compounded
yearly over the project implementation period. Price contingencies for
fertilizer, insecticide, and chemicals are based on World Bank projected price
increases for petroleum. Physical and price contingencies on the rural
development component of the project amount to 46% of project base cost, and
amount to 30% of base cost of the recurrent import component. Average man-
month cost of consulting services is estimated at US$8,130.
52.      Total net of tax expenditures of US$60.0 million would be financed as
follows:
(i)  The Zou province rural development component (US$26.3 million):
US$4.0 million for seed production, applied research and project
monitoring and evaluation would be financed by FAC (US$3.7 million)
and Government US$0.3 million; US$22.3 million for all other rural
development components would be financed pari passu by IDA (US$14.8
million), CCCE (US$4.8 million), and Government (US$2.7 million).
The FAC contribution would be a grant; the CCCE contribution would
be lent to Government.
(ii)  The recurrent national fertilizer/insecticide import program (US$33.6
million) would be jointly financed by farmers (US$22.6 million),
Government (US$4.1 million), IDA (US$5.2 million), and CCCE (US$1.8
million).
53.      All external financing would be channelled through the CAA, Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement, the Government agency for handling official foreign
financing. Funds would be passed on as follows:
(i) granted to CARDER-Zou (US$20.6 million) to cover management of
extension services, input distribution, operation of its specialized
units, applied research, seed production, technica:L assistance and
studies;
(ii) granted to SONAPRA (US$0.8 million) to cover strengthening of its
truck fleet for cotton evacuation, workshop rehabi:Litation, technical
assistance and studies;
(iii) onlent to CNCA (0.3 million), under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, for
medium-term credit (para. 33);



- 15 -
(iv) paid into a "Special Account" to be operated at CAA (US$4.3 and 11.1
million) to finance the incremental, and subsidy elements of
fertilizer and insecticides respectively; SONAPRA, as the sole
importer of seasonal inputs, would draw against this account; and
(v)  passed on to the Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action
(US$3.0 million) for strengthening of its DEP and establishment of a
technical support unit for all ginneries.
54.      CARDER-Zou, having the overall technical responsibility for project
implementation, including the distribution of inputs, would obtain seasonal
credit from CNCA to purchase inputs from SONAPRA and repay this credit from
recovery of cotton sales. This would essentially constitute a prefinancing of
farmers' contributions towards the cost of fertilizer and insecticides. The
other CARDERs would obtain their inputs in a similar fashion. Such interim
financing should be in place by October 31 of each year to coincide with
Government's provision of funds for subsidies. All funds would be credited to
the "Special Account" at CAA in order to enable SONAPRA to draw from it for
the import of total domestic requirements. Since CNCA has access to a re-
discount facility with the Central Bank for West African States (BCEAO), the
demand on its seasonal credit resources is not expected to pose a problem.
Procurement
55.      Civil works to be financed by CCCE, valued at a total of US$0.7
million, would be procured by local competitive bidding procedures satis-
factory to CCCE. Contracts for goods valued at US$3.3 million, (IDA US$2.5
million) would be grouped as far as possible and procured by ICB according to
IDA guidelines, or by local competitive procedures for contracts below
US$100,000, while those of less than US$50,000 would be procured on the basis
of price quotations from at least three qualified suppliers. Remaining vehi-
cles and equipment, costing about US$2.9 million, would be financed by CCCE
and FAC, and procured according to their respective guidelines. Seasonal
inputs, chiefly fertilizer and insecticides, valued at US$39.7 million (IDA
US$9.2 million) would be procured by SONAPRA through ICB. About US$0.3 million
(all IDA) worth of oxen and ploughs, financed by CNCA medium-term credit,
would be purchased from local suppliers. IDA, CCCE, and FAC would finance
specified technical assistance and consultants' services worth US$4.9 million
(IDA US$2.9 million) in accordance with their respective guidelines. Operat-
ing costs and some local staff salaries for CARDER-Zou and SONAPRA estimated
at US$9.6 million (IDA US$4.1 million) would be committed in line with esta-
blished Government procedures.
Disbursement
56.      The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over 5 1/2 years to cover:
(i) For CARDER:
a)   75% of vehicles and equipment, 55% of incremental operating cost
and incremental local salaries, and 100% of technical assistance
and 75% of consultants' services.



_ 16 -
(ii) For CNCA:
a)   100% of credits disbursed.
(iii) For Fertilizers/Insecticides:
a)   75% of incremental requirements for the project; and
b)   a weighted average of 18% for the recurrent National Imports, or
60% in PYs 1 and 2, 57% in PY3, 54% inPY4 and 18% in PY5.
(iv) Refinancing in full of the PPF advance for project start-up
activities.
Disbursements for expenditures on civil works, vehicles, equipment, inputs,
technical assistance and consultants' services would be fully documented.
Disbursements for operating costs and local salaries, as well as medium-term
credit, would be against certified statements of expenditures and statements
of credit disbursed, respectively; full supporting documentation, showing
costs incurred by category, would be retained for inspection by IDA.
Audits and Reporting Requirements
57.      CARDER's and SONAPRA's accounts would be audited by independent
auditors and their reports would be furnished to IDA within six months after
the close of each fiscal year. From PY3 onwards, CNCA's account would also be
audited by independent auditors; the report would be submitted to IDA within
six months of the end of the fiscal year and would contain an opinion on the
statements of credit disbursements against which withdrawal applications were
to be or had been made. In addition CARDER, SONAPRA and CNCA would submit
quarterly reports to Government and the co-financiers showing actual against
budgeted expenditures and statements of progress achieved. These quarterly
reports would contain summary financial information indicating the level of
the respective agency's borrowings and of any outstanding receivables from
Government or other bodies with respect to budgetary allocations for the
project and program (where feasible) and subsidies for production inputs.
Project Benefits and Risks
58.      The major quantifiable benefit of the project wou:Ld be expansion of
cotton and food crop production. By the end of the project's implementation
period, cotton production is expected to double to 11,000 t and food crops by
13,000 t through higher yields and a modest increase in cu:Ltivated area. This
would yield additional real income for farmers of US$2.7 million from cotton
and US$4.2 million from food crops in 1981 prices, as well as increased
foreign exchange for Government. About 38,000 farm families with current net
incomes of about US$600 per year (US$80 per capita) could expect to earn net
incomes of about US$938 (US$125 per capita), or an increase in real terms of
about 56 percent. Because of the relatively narrow range of farm-size and
family sizes throughout the province, these increases would be well dis-
tributed among the population.
59.      Among the unquantifiable project benefits would be an improvement in
the capacity of Government institutions to manage and plan further rural



- 17 -
development activity, and in their financial management capabilities. In
addition, a firm basis for adaptive food crop and cotton research, and seed
production, would have been established.
60.      The estimated economic return to the proposed project is about 22
percent, when all project costs leading to production increases at the farm
level (about 88 percent of project base costs) and farm level benefits are
taken into account over a 20-year period. This rate of return is sensitive to
changes in real costs and benefits, since a 10 percent rise in projected real
costs or a 10 percent decline in projected real benefits would lower the
return to about 10 percent. It does not include a rate of return calculation
for the recurrent input component of the project, which should have important
benefits by increasing agricultural production nationwide.
61.      There are no major technical risks in the project since all technical
proposals have been proven in other West African situations to be capable of
initiating a recovery in production. The principal risk is that poor organi-
zation, rapid staff turnovers, and financial mismanagement may occur and lead
to under-performance. To minimize this risk, technical and organizational
training programs would be provided for all staff, salaries for the CARDER-Zou
would be increased at least to the levels of state enterprises, and a bonus
system would be worked out for extension workers. It would also be critical
that a strong technical assistance team can be recruited to work in both line
as well as in advisory posts. For the proposed project particular care would
be taken, in cooperation with the other cofinanciers, in the selection and
screening process of potential candidates for the technical assistance team.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Benin and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion, are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
63.      Special conditions of the proposed project are listed in Section III
of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit
Agreement would be: (i) approval by the Association of CARDER-Zou's first
annual work plan and budget; (ii) approval by the Borrower of SONAPRA's
statutes, satisfactory to IDA; (iii) presentation of SONAPRA's organigram and
opening balance sheet; (iv) the opening of, and initial deposit in, the
Revolving Fund Account required for the project; (v) presentation of
satisfactory terms of reference for a cotton sub-sector study; and (vi)
effectiveness of the FAC Grant and CCCE Loan Agreements.
64.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 18 -
PART VI  -  RECOMMENDATION
65.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 18, 1982



- 19 -
Page 1
TABLE 3A
BENIN -SOCI.LINDICATORS DATA SHEET
BENIN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE3AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       - IDST RECENT ESTINATE)a
TOTAL            112.6                                MOST RECENT            LOW INCC(E             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      10.2              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOuTH OF SAHARA  AFRiCA SOuTH OF SARARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  90.0       120.0    250.0                  238.3                   794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      39.9        54.0      67.5                  70.5                   707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
OPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  2049.8       2645.6   3425.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 9.5         12.6      13.9                  17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       6.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        19.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2110
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                       17.7        23.5      30.4                  27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    204.6       264.0    326.7                   73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.1        45.3      46.0                 44.8                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                         53.3        52.0      51.3                 52.4                     51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6         2.7       2.7                  2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.2         2.6       2.9                  2.6                      2.8
URBAN                              5.8         5.4       3.9                  6.5                      5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    50.5         49.2      48.7                 46.9                     46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    26.5         21.9      18.5                  19.3                    15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.3         3.3       3.3                  3.1                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          95.0       101.0      97.0                 89.5                     89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   93.0        96.0      98.0                 90.2                     92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          51.0        53.0      51.0                 52.7                     52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       14.0        15.0      13.0                 17.8                     16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     41.0        32.2      25.4                 27.3                     20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.2         42.4      46.7                 45.8                     50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          206.0          ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      21.0                 23.9                     27-4
URBAN                               .,          ..      50.0                 55.0                     74.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      16.0                 18.5                     12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        14.0        ..                 26.2
URBAN                               ..        83.0        ..                 63.5
RURAL                               ..         1.0        ..                 20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         23031.3     28447.1  26883.3               31911.8                  13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      2860.1   3035.9                3674.9                   2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            747.6       846.9    735.5                1238.8                   1028.4
URBAN                            538.1       231.6     393.9                272.8                    423.0
RURAL                            779.5      2185.5    1134.6               1745.2                   3543.2
AIIMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        30.2      17.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 20 -
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BENIN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BENIN                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
HOST RECENT          LOW INCOHE              MIDDLE INCOHE
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH CF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIHARY:     TOTAL                26.0        40.0      60.0                 56.4                     73.7
MALE                 38.0        55.0      78.0                 70.7                     96.8
FEMALE               15.0        25.0      42.0                 50.1                     79.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  2.0         5.0      12.0                  10.0                    16.2
MALE                  2.0         8.0      18.0                  13.6                    25.3
FEMALE                1.0         3.0       7.0                  6.6                     14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (R OF SECONDARY) 13.0          4.1       6.0                   8.0                     5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           41.0        44.0      55.0                 46.5                     36.2
SECONDARY                         23.0        26.0      31.0/d               25.5                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        8.0        11.0/e    ..                    25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.0         4.6       5.4                  2.9                     32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        12.2        32.1      46.5                 32.8                     69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..       0.1                  1.9                      8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL.
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  2.0         0.8       0.3                  2.8                     20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.2         0.4        ..                  1.2                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1048.9      1285.7   1572.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  45.4        45.1      44.2                 34.1                     36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             54.0        49.7      46.4                 80.0                     56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 9.0        11.8      15.5                  8.6                     17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               51.2        48.6      45.9                 41.7                     37.2
MALE                                57.1        54.3      52.0                 54.3                     47.1
FEMALE                              45.5        43.1      40.0                 29.2                     27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9         1.0       1.1                  1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   31.4/c        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.77         ..        .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5. 57        ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.87         ..        .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                136.0                   381.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      84.0                 84.5                    156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                 99.1                    334.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      82.0                 61.2                    137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                 39.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      65.0                 68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arittnetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimaate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c  Population;  /d 1975;  /e 1973.
May, 1981



- 21 -
Pegs 3
DEPCtNITIONfS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notte:  Although tho dta are draw  fro   .ra  generally jdged the most aunharinti- and reliable, it should also be nosed that they cay Oc be inte-
eatioeallpo.pareble b .....a of the leok of eneudardlead defimmioea and Ioe-pte aae  bydfaet toutiee 10 ollu-tlog tho data.  Th. date are, none-
thb1o..... usful to de-oib  oresof magnitude, indic tetrends,  nd ohar...eries cetaIn coo  diff feren.r  bet.c.o c.oottrio.
The rforenu  groups are (1) the   l  .a.ecoutry group of the subjoot country sad (2) a ....noy group nich  omeehtn higher  -Io.ge Caon  than the ..nn.ry group
of tit  nob3sci cutry (-.npi fou "Cpta -opIun oil                        Stnnsa    onup  here 'Middle I-om    -tnoh hfuita uud Middle Eus" is thcee  beosusa of striger
oroctrauffioitnie).  In the refernc  grou p data the  -verge  are poplatIon weighted a-ite-ic scneto  cueh indictor end sho.- oly oboe
mejonity of the o-tselee in a group baa data for that inloato.  Si..a the  -avrge of cottrios among the indicatore deponde or the avilability of dat
edis uot uniform, oatioa most be emeroised Ca olening averges ofonidtar to another.  These avrge                          .r only ..eoful io cpaigthe  -ouo of
oeindicato  at tine emog tha country end reference grops.
LAND AREA  (thouen e.b.)Populoion Pro fonpito1 ted    ton, uba,  en  run.-Pouoi    ttl
Tonal - Tonl  urut  ere  onuprieog land aese end inlond esters,                                   ubnonrne)dvedyiboropoi                              uMbo  of hoepitol bods
dAtioultnra1 - etimate of  gnino1tr-I an-  used temporaily or pornnetly                           ovuilable in public erd prIvat  genera  nnd eproiolioed hoepita1 ord re
fur coops, pasture.t  arkt end kitchen godons or to lie fallow; 1978 dare.                      habilitocion oetors.  H-opitalo 000 estublish-ets pernaronly snuffed
by on1eat 000 phymlio.i   lnEnthlieh-tn  providing prIncipally cua to-
GNlt PER. CAPITA (15$) - liNt pot  npita  -ntilt.st  At c-onet mauhnt pohons. cu1-                  dial ca-  no  ct inclded,  tota  hoapitalt, h--.c, include helibh
oulAred by sMe co rlumtbod as World tank Atues (1977-79 basis); 1960,                             and medical I-cec  not permanenty.staffed by n phyocioc. (but by
1970, and 1979 date.                                                                               -dic-Iu . auiein, nurs,nidwie,rIr.)haich off-r io-punien-om
detanandpovid  aliulcd tango of medicoI fucilit I.s.  For atotie-
ENIfRI  CfNSLTM'IONf PuR GAPITA - Au-In .... onup.itn of oo-riu  n-rY (ca                           tice  puyIaeoF            hosInal  include WHoonprtiph/esolopitels,
and lignito. petrolem, natural gae and hydr-, nuolea  an  glothtro  elao1-                        and  -.ra  h-epical, loca  or rurl.eito.   adodica  uomtoroity
Irtoiity) in kilogrem   of col eqival-nt P- c.Pita; 196f, 1970. sod 1979                         cInnsra   ipecioliard bospitala are includod only under tonal
data,                                                                                           Admissions Itn toepicl ted - Ttcnl nubor otfdmsooto or diechorgoa
from hospitals dliIded bp ubo nnber of bedn.
POPTIATIONg AM1 VITAL STATISTICS
Tota Prltn.mid-Tour (thounnda) - As of July 1; l9Af, 1970, and 1979                           HOUSING
Urban Poonledtion (e..c.an of total) - Ratio of urbon to total popnletion;                        A houaholdIco.eis  ocfugrp of  `indiidua w%ho -rlvn   quatora
differet dfinitios  of urbas ae  naY affect com parbility of duna                               and choir main mauls.  A boarder or lodger may orny non ha icloded in
amea  11toatis  191  1970, and 1979 data,                                                       tho housohold forsataiclpurpoe...
Poenlatio  Proet.J ionteaon9broforec   erro  - 'otel, urban -ad ruel-_ voag  nn
Poeslation in reor 2000    Curet Ppoplacion projection   oe d  dn  90                    bsr of p        Feou  e  roo  in . all.uba,tod rnru  occu pied cnntr
nanl  opuatonby ago:  end see. and thoir mortaityan  fsrilttyranee..                           d-elli.g., rop-ctlely.  D-olliofu maclode  o-arao t-mirunaro  and
Prjonparamters for moriulity ratoe nompoime of th-e  1e-1l  aeam-unocpiod Parts.
inglIfe e.Paanyt birth  nru gWth            I cuny   ercpt    on                           Acoos t  Elactricy(oreoofdolicn) - total, urban  ond  -nru  -
leel  adlaal   ifetneo o  stabiliiog at 77.1 year.  Tfho pars-                                Cov inldwoltingo with  Iooticacy Ic" liing               atera as. percentag
ete.. for fatlllly rate almo have three level  essaning derlina in                            tf total, -rbuc, oud rura  dwoliogr-poctiv-ly.
fetLt Icoding to incuol  lu-o  and pant tanily planoing pnfccnnc..
Euob toontry letei      sige   n   f these"i'e o-bimationa of ncrrliny                   EDCICATTON
and fernility trends forP" praeoio  p-rpoe                                                 AdJuetod Enroll-rI Rtcio
Ibnb tiomaro.   t Poruleion -  Ia e. statior-ylpoplto   tharo. In n  groth  inoPrimay abo  -  o                         I.no   and foe1l  - Croon. total, mala end f omu
the brth rte i  eqo   no  ho dot  rae,ad alno the age stunrr-onisc   falao  a   b   ror    o1u   ontoo f renycitt
mains I...tnnt,  Thia in achieve  only oftar fortilitY ratee deoliso to                         primary -choo-an  ppug        tt;  oray Ioclndo  ohildro  ugd 6-11
the replacemet lot-  of uit net reprudnion rete, whe  mat grnrio                                70000tbut udjoa-d For differ-o  longths o.f I-riary edacatios; for1
of woe  rnpl.c.. itself exactly.  Thestationar  population else ems                              oontloith univoru  educa.tinerloot mo   ac    101 Porat
ratinatod on tho besis of the promoted char--otriatics of the population                        since  a    PuP"ln are bolos or abov   h    fiia colae
intho yer 2000, and the rot  of docILne of fartility rate co repl.c.-                       incon.dory sch.ol - coaI         aean   am       Coep-td as abo-;ae....dory
mont level.                                                             o~~~~~~docatiooquiros oIbs   ou   or  of  -prrd prImary in-crutlon;
Tetsttonr porlai-n Ce ron.cind - 'Che ynar shin  ntatiuny population                     pru-idma g            -rn,vcti.onl, o   oce   riin   n utuofor ?.Pt
ifrhsbeeo raucbd.                                                                           aol  of 11 to 17 pours of ag; ooroP-ondo o-u-               are g..or-1lY
Poe  n. he. -li-yr           1cpltioa pan square  il-o tr (100 heonre) of                       Tocutiom_l onrolnst (pHern  of soodery) - Vocanionol instinuti.ts
tota1 acne  19017U        ed17  9 dt.innlodr toohinal, I.nd-etrIa  or other progr-n   hioh operat  indpeod-
Pee at. he.uru rl loud -_C.mp.Id os abov  for agricultural land                                   ently or as depor.teet  of  .. uodoryinitio.
ony 960, 1970an197daa                                                                     Porilt--tmco  rntio - roinry. and ..... dary - Tonall          lodete  nole   in
PoonLanion Ann Snnt=f  llper r)-Childre  (0-li year) , workIng-ag  (15-                             primary und e....udory 1oro    diridod by  -ob_ra  ftcoaobnr  in the
64ty-st), ad retirod (A5 pees ad-ove) oe percen.tages of n'd-yenr popo-                           corre..po.diugI .evols.
lation; 1960, 1~970, sd 197Y9 deta.                                                             idalt lines rr   (ee) - Lintrai  udu1to  (able to road and -rite)
Parlt9ion; Groth Iat  (porcant) - tonal - An--I growt  ratee of total mid-                           Foaper .etage of totu  adult  poplation aged 11 yeors andovr
ys ppLtotfur 1.95 00-01960-70, nrd 1970-79.
Porulaion Growth Rate (Pe. nt"-_ uban - A-n-I growth rates of urban popu-                     CONSUMPTION
1etiom   for 1950-00, 1960-70, and 1970-79.                                                   PAssenoor Cure (per th-uoad Porulotion) -Paanenger nar  nmprins no-
Crude Birth Race (p-r rhoosnd) - A-aua  lIve births per tho..sa.d of sfd-yer                      oe   ematln  lose thac night P por..n  oucldeesblao    h-orse  and
pooain;160   9G  end 1979 dean,                                                       till-toy vehile,l:
Cde South Rao  oe  thosn)- daumal da                e  toeneofadpo                             Raditeier  (ro   .houaad population)   All types of rre-iver  for radio
population; 1960. 1970, and 1979 dana.                                                          broadoesc to general polio Pertu,         u  ofPopulation  soluee.       0
G oss perrdurt1ion Ratte -Averag   naber of daughtereaoma  mill bmtIncnsdrnovr  Incoutries and  iyorthnrgIotrtn of redi.
hornr        erdcive period if she   aaino -pI      .Presi eseifto for-                         actwo  in effect; data forI .. cutF-yo  coy nnbe  opral   in
tility  rates; usually fIve-your averages ending ~~~~~~~in oA, 1971, ad1979.      noon oo bnie    liabd lio--siug.
Fseiiilly P=n%t  -  nenr.ano   tasna      annal nuber of acc... reTVR teceivere (per,1 thouaud Prouletiul- -TOt.. roivern  for broadoa..t to
of birth-otrol doniomaudnr anpinm   of notional family yinnnin  Frgrm                           geIu ulcptthou...nd ppopletio;m                  drutIcono TIreener
Pail, Pl=n .ia-tee.   (reroeno of _ariod sMe) - Poroontago of married                             Icontrios ond in Yo... whenrg- tainof T. onto  .a  i   ffet
wMeoo  obidI-henring ago (11-44 year) who u.. birth-control d-oi.e. co                        nnapaper Cinro...nio  fror thoca.d..u.I       in)       haw   hyaeag-i
oI _arid _sno  in so_  ago group.                                                                ulation of "daily gr.r.  ictc_ot  ...nPaper", doi_a  asaperLio-oa
publiontioc devotod priIrilY to rr..ording genoro  noe          ft is  ouneideor
POOS ADil NUTRITIfON                                                                                to ho "daily" if it-ppeareoc Ioa.t fou  ctan ......k.
Inden of Pood Production Fr Cprita (1969-71-100l - Inde  of per nait  ao"l                      Ci.en  Aunual At-edanco rer Cpita to  'fou  - bused on the nuber of
production of all food coodition,  Producionilue  noodd.            andI. feed and              tickrto sold duciog cho Y-er  includingadien               dtodiv-in ci---
in no calend- yo-  bosio,  Coditiosoovo   prinany goods (e.g. eog-..a..                         und nobilt unite.
inetnod of sugar) which ar dble and contain nutrient  (e.g. .offtoo and
to  are eo1oded).  Aggrogot  prdotion of ouch coutop is base.d onAinOR FORCE
national avrugo prod"oo  pcic  wrighs  161-Al. 1970, und 1979 data.                           TotalLabor Porno (tbonancds) - Economically ectivo peron..         iuIn
Per ceita enorly of  MMlrir  (onocean  f rore,          on   - Computed fron                    armd foru... nod  penYlyd boo eoludiug houoioe .            nd.t. e..
ocortgy rovetof ne  food supplier  -riloble in coun.try per.il Iutr                           rvuiog pupulnoirn of all ogre.  tfiuitio.. in o-r..oun           . couirie  are
per day. Aoailablr aupplie.... coprio  doneetic prodnotion, 1npocts I...                      not  _cpurable; 1960, 1970 -od 1979 data._
eaoi,ad uh.ne.    tooo.ntnPploanlde anma  feedj,erode,                                Peoe(occ)-Pnl  ao   o                      0Po"rengo  ftna   ao Iforce.
qmniia  edl  fodpI   enig   n  losersN in dia11. triuint       oure'giatr  (oon)-Lbofrcinamngfrnry, hunting and
monta sor  -sat.n d by FAD hu..od on physilo.gical nee ds for noma  anti-                     linhing un pnro-ncgr of t-cu  labo  ttrc; lOh, 1970 and 1979 mm.
city on  hoalth comidering enviro-atol toprcr,body olighta, toe                             Industry (cprcect  - Labor for-  inmito,  ontru..tion, m ufaccuroti
nud 000 distribution of populaion,  od o1losiog 10 porcont fouarat                            nnd                -t-rlit,   orod gus or percntge of cona1 labor fo-o; 1960,
he...ohold level; 1961-65, 1970, uod 1977 data.                                               1970 and 1979 doto.
7e-  -upino enly of protein (oan  Per day) - Pro trio content of por capita                   Partoticic  tot(rr-nc  - totol. malo  on              Tonl  - Perticiyntion or
_t u 1yo  fond Per day,  Sec snPP1Y of food ie definod as above.  Ge-                         atvt   ue   r             tda  total, .male,  od femal  laborfrea
qoirowets for.1 all .cotrion established by USDA pro-idr for imiou                            porentagra ci tota, male nnd fesal  popoLacton of all aes. ro-potiv-1y;
aloreof hI grane of tota  protoic per day and 2T gEam  of onimI ood                     1969, 1970, uod 1979 dana.  Thonoaro bone  oo IL ,' paticipation Ot-
Pulse    . prtin, of which 11 franc ohould he aInprt .  Thecoesond-                           ronIgao-nrrunoofthe P popuistioc, ad long timo tran.  A
are00iea    ht ths  of 75 gRa of tota  protein and 23grn  of                         fa      o-cnae  rnntiona eof           Poa
animal protein asnoavrge for the ouIld, prpa..d by PAO in the Third                         lonnc  oedon-r Ratio   Ratio of pupuIetion otds- 11 and 65 nod root
WohId Pood in-ur; 1961-hI,.197  nn  177dta                                                    tt  the t-tI lubtofoc
Per oarPitaoroteit softly Iro  urinalud cule '- Prutoin eupply of foud do-
rive. fo  oim     odpulas in, gr,Z  per) day; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 data.               INOM  DISTRIBUTION
Child fn.... 1-4) Martellty RAte (P.  thouan)-A--Ima  drthe por thousand lo                     P..r..ocao  of Prio-to II---  (both to cuh und hind) - Racived by riohe-
oge group 1-I yoare, to childre  in this ago froop; for mast derolopiug rout-                   5 Por..nt, rohooc 10 p-rco-, p-o-tn 20 pr-tn, end poornot0 P IS .proet
tries data deri-d from life tubloc; 1965, 1975 and 1979 data,                                   of hoenchoda.
HEALTH                                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GRtOUPS
Life Eup-c.a.oyat Birth (rears  - Av-rug  number of ..race of life rnining                      The follotg   . ieolt-v coo vey opprci"at   manro            f povoty 1-loolo
atbirth; 1960, 1970 end 1979 dunu.                                                            and ohoold he iot-rproed slob  --riderbloa-riot,
Ifan.Rralc  Rte (Per thousod) - Annoul douch. of infanto  nd-r cue your                         . faimtod Abnoutr P-vorc  Incma Irve  (US0 ror caito) - nrba  and coral1
of agepr  thoon... bI'oo birt,ibs.     t.Absolirt puo-coy iocoa lovol ia that iuuom_ leve  below  hich n  inimaI
Iuos t  Sif0Wao  (p.Irnot oforouIon   ttl,ub,ed rural - Nun-                                  nutritionally ad.qote dioc pic  asset..till coo-food roquiros-   is  oto
her of people (tonal, urban, and rural) with onoal   urst  safe o';ff.rdublo.
sanr sppy (colde   coatd srf ceso oo  oronumaod  utuncntaioned        laimated Raotio- P-vt  Inco.- l-Ie (US$ coo .,pvita) - urbe  nod rurl1
saer ;oh usfthatfomprtet edborehal,,, spins  and saitr  we)IFtrlrlrveptryicm   ee  Ia coo-rbhird of ovorafe,  ..o . caita
percotage  of their  eapootivopop1atou . I  no urban . trnpobl-c                       yr--l i-om   oftho  onr.           iUba  Iro   indnon   cnt             P uo
fo.ntoin cc  tandpost Iocetd oot m-o  It-u  200 monare from   ho... coy ho                      level  ich tdjuat t for higher coot of living in urba  aroo.
dotthv.o.p.                iprpcimt  por  oftheda.itfethig te.700.I.                                                   f..lI         (       o       .)
d.en t  Emt rtn liyoso d(mmmc of.-t  P-atu -f total.y utan  andi. rthl
Numbor of proplo (cot.1  urban  an Purl"       er'      by enItc  diaposo  a
theclecinad disposal wih or withotrtet, of h .mo.oo..ota                                                                              ucmcndSca.ooIvso
an  snt-wte   y wtron   y-t   or rho 000 of pit prioiee ood oimi-                                                               E-coic unlynie ood Proje-ti... Dapoitsi
PPoIruinti    Por Phyreiciu  - 'poplotico divided by n-b-c of prcti,ioin  phymi-                                                                       My18
,Ia..n . qooflfiodIfro  a mdico1 sohr1 at univority 1-v1.
P     Pnainconriog Perso- -Population divided by nubo_ of practicing
male and fen1l  grad uste ournas, p-tcioul. nurno,..ud n..sietc  ore_



- 22 -                                                          ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1981                                                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH,%
(1978 constant prices)
US$ Million              % of GDP                              1976-81
GDP at Market Prices                 951.8                   100.0                                 3.1
Gross Domestic Investment            333.6                    35.0                                14.1
Gross Domestic Saving                 12.5                     1.3                                 9.5
Current Account Balance             -328.9                   -34.6                                14.2
Exports of Goods, NFS                298.9                    31.4                                11.5
Imports of Goods, NFS                658.0                    69.1                                 7.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981              Value Added                   Labor Force            Value added per Worker
US$ Million     %        Thousand           %           US$        %
Agriculture                          369.8       44.5       1,220.0          73.6          303.1     59.9
Industry, Construction
and Public Works                   102.5       13.4         100.3          6.1          1021.9   201.8
Services                             367.6       42.1         338.2          20.3         1086.9   214.6
GDP at Factor Cost                839.9      100.0        1658.5         100.0          506.4    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(CFAF Billion)               % of GDP
1981                 1981      1981
Current Revenue                       52.6                 20.6      16.6
Current Expenditures                  34.8                 13.8      11.3
Investment Expenditures               25.1                  9.8       4.7
Transfers                              0.4                  0.2       0.4
Net lending                            2.8                  1.1       2.0
Overall deficit (-)               -10.5                 -4.1      -1.2
External Borrowing                    13.9                  5.4       2.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES              1976       1977      1978       1979      1980      1981
(Billion CFAF Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                 30.6       34.9      39.0      46.7      61.4       71.3
Net Claims on Central Government     -7.1        -9.4    -12.9    -11.8    -17.5    -20.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector a/      32.1       38.6      47.1      59.4      85.0      87.0
(Percentage or Index Number)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP     22.5        23.2    23.2        23.9      28.5      27.6
General Price Index (1978=100)        83.8        86.8    100.0      113.3    131.1      159.2
Annual Percentage Change in:
General Price Index                  ..          3.6     15.2       13.3      15.7      21.4
Net Claims on Central Gov't.         ..        -32.4   -37.2        8.5    -48.3    -19.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector        ..         20.2    22.0       26.1       43.1       2.6
a/ Includes Public Enterprises.



- 23 -
AU I
Pag 5
TRADE5 PAYMDITS AND CAPITAL PLOWS
(in millions of US$)
(BALANCE OF PAYMENTS           1976      1977       1978       1979      1980      1981    IERCHAFDISE EXPORTS                      USS million       %
(Average 1977-1981, Recorded)
Exports of Goods, NFS        131.9     176.4     223.1    302.0       323.0     298.9   Palm Products                                11.8         20.9
Imports of Goods, NFS         251.2     302.4    372.0    509.1    702.6         658.0    Cocoa Beans                                  9.3         16.5
Resource Gap (deficit = -)  -119.3   -126.1   -148.9   -207.1   -379.6   -359.0    Cotton                                              9.2         16.3
All Other Comodities                        26.2         43
Interest Payments (net)       -0.04      -0.20     -0.27     -0.94      -2.37     -7.73      Total Recorded                           !5          100.0
Workers' Remittances           16.1      23.1      36.5       39.4      44.0      37.9       Total Unrecorded                        161.4        296.2
Private Transfers               3.5       2.9       3.2        a/        a/        a/
Balance oni Current Account   -99.7   -100.3   -108.9   -168.7   -338.0    -328.9
BXTEBEIAL DEBT, DECBENBR 31,.1981                   US4 Riliom
Capital Grants                 53.4      57.4      38.4      64.4       50.6      85.0
Direct Foreign Investment       2.5       4.4       0.8       16.8      39.8      33.9    Public Debt (Disbursed)                                 549.0
Net M0T Borrowing              13.6      20.6      32.2       42.0     277.7     159.1    Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Other Cap:.tal (net)           16.8      10.5      16.4       15.8      23.0       3.5    Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Other Iteus, n.e.i. and
errors and omissions        19.6       4.6      -3.6       7.2    -46.0        72.5
Overall Balance                 5.5      -1.1     -21.6    -12.9         4.8      54.2
Net Reserves (end year)c/      19.0      17.8       2.3    -15.3    -10.6         46.0   DEBT SERVICE RATIO POE 1981b/
Petroleum Imports as % of                                                                                                                           S
Total Inmports                7.6       9.4       9.1       10.0      8.0        7.5    Public Debt (Disbursed)
Including Guaranteed Private Debt                      7.3
lon-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding and Disbursed
EXCHANGE FATES (CFAF PER US$)
Year          Period Average Bnd of Period                                                IBRD/IDA LDNDING, may 31, 1982           IBSD            IDA
1976               239            248
1977               246            235                                                     Outstanding and Disbursed                  -            64.22
1978               226            209                                                     Undisbursed                                _            11.75
1979               212            201                                                     Outstanding including undisbursed          -            75.97
1980               210            226
1981               272            287
a/ Included in workers remittances
b/ Ratio- of debt service to exports of goods and services ( including unrecorded exports).
c/ Foreign assets of Central Bank



- 24 -                          ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of October 31, 1982)
Loan or     Fiscal                                         (US$ million)
Credit No.   Year      Borrower      Purpose            Amount 1/  Undisbursed
(less cancellations)
Six Credits fully disbursed                               40.96
583 -BEN       1975   Benin        Rural Education         4.00        1.02
and Training
746-BEN        1977   Benin        Third Highway           10.00       0.30
826-BEN         1978   Benin       Cotonou Port            19.30 2/    0.73
997-BEN        1980   Benin        Industrial             10.00        8.17
Development
1090-BEN       1981   Benin        Feeder Roads            5.96        3.62
1127-BEN       1981   Benin        Borgou Province        17.01       15.38
Rural Development
1142-BEN       1981   Benin        Fourth Highway         10.07        8.43
1171-BEN 3/    1981   Benin        Cotonou Water           4.44        4.44
Sanitation
1189-BEN 3/    1981   Benin        Power Eng. & TA         1.84        1.84
1207-BEN       1982   Benin        TA Petrol. Sctr         7.58        6.69
1246-BEN       1982   Benin        2nd Ed. Project        13.21       13.21
TOTAL                             144.37       63.83
of which has been repaid ....... 8.57
TOTAL now outstanding ........... 135.80
TOTAL now held by IDA .......... . 135.80
TOTAL undisbursed ................ 63.83
1/ Prior to Exchange Adjustment.
2/ Including US$8.3 million participation of the Government of Norway
(fully disbursed) and repaid.
3/ Not yet effective.



- 25 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 583-BEN    Rural Education and Training Project; US$4  0 million
credit of June 19, 1975; Effective Date: October 21,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
This credit provides for (i) construction and supply of training ma-
terials for a Skills Upgrading Center in Cotonou; (ii) construction, equipment
and technical assistance to improve the ongoing rural youth training program;
and (iii) preparation of a second education project. The construction of the
National Support Center (CNAC), and of the Regional Support Centers for the
rural training component of the project and of the Skills Upgrading Center
(CPPE) have been completed. Personnel have been appointed to the CNAC.
Equipment has been selected and issued to the youth clubs. Training for
extension staff and group leaders has begun. Implementation of the rural
water supply component jointly financed with UNICEF, commenced in July 1980,
is expected to take two years to complete.
Credit No. 746-BEN    Third Highway Project US$10.0 million credit of
November 18, 1977; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
This project is designed to facilitate access to the Port of Cotonou
by providing for the rehabilitation of a 107 km section of the country's main
north-south highway; it also aims at expanding the highway maintenance program
begun under the two previous highway projects; including the elimination of
some of the backlog of bituminous and laterite roads resurfacing. Project
execution is proceeding satisfactorily although delays in starting the bitumen
roads resealing program have resulted in further deterioration of about 54 km
of roads which now require full reconstruction. Reconstruction of the bitumen
roads is provided for under the Fourth Highway project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems and actions being taken to remedy them. They should be read
with the understanding that they do not present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 826-BEN    Cotonou Port Project; US$11.0 million credit of June 8,
1978 Effective Date: October 19, 1979, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
This project provides for the extension of the existing general cargo
port facilities involving dredging of a new basin, construction of 660 m
berths with transit sheds, hardstandings, roadway, and railway services; the
construction of a new cut-off breakwater and entrance channel dredging; tech-
nical assistance for all port operations including railway and a study of
coastal erosion problems. Eight co-financiers including IDA had originally
agreed to participate in the project and to provide about US$44.0 million of
external financing. A US$3.0 million EEC Special Action Credit was approved
on November 9, 1979 to close the financing gap created by the withdrawal of
one of the co-financiers. Civil works are proceeding satisfactorily. Project
costs have increased by about $9.0 million, primarily because of a design
change necessitated by an apparent shortfall in the volumes and sizes of rocks
expected to be obtained from an old breakwater to be demolished for the con-
struction of a new one. Additional financing to ensure project completion has
been obtained from the OPEC Fund and the BADEA.
Credit No. 997-BEN    Industrial Development Project; US$10.0 million credit
of March 20, 1980; Effective Date: August 10, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This project provides needed term resources to the Banque Beninoise
pour le Developpement (BBD) for financing small- and medium-scale investments
in the industrial sector and technical assistance to help build up BBD's capa-
city to identify, promote and assist industrial projects.
Credit No. 109-BEN   Second Feeder Roads Project; SDR 5.5 million credit of
December 23, 1980; Effective Date: December 11, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
This project would finance the construction by force-account of about
700 km of feeder roads, maintenance and improvement of another 1,200 km, pro-
viding technical assistance to the Feeder Roads Division (Ministry of Public
Works) for carrying out civil works, project monitoring, staff training and
preparation of future feeder roads programs.
Credit No. 1127-BEN   Borgou Province Rural Development Project; SDR 15.7
million credit of April 7, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
March 23, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
This project provides for expanding agricultural production (food-
crops and cotton) in the Borgou Province through the strengthening and support
of institutions and of technical infrastructure, integrated with improved
extension, cooperatives, training and social services.



- 27
ANNEX Ii
Page 4
Credit No. 1142-BEN   Fourth Highway Project; SDR 9.3 million credit of
May 14, 1981; Effectiveness Date: April 8, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This project provides for the rehabilitation of about 500 km of
gravel roads, the reconstruction or resealing of about 84 km of paved roads,
and the improvement in the efficiency of routine and periodic maintenance.
Credit No. 1171-BEN   Cotonou Water/Sanitation Engineering Project; SDR 4.1
million credit of June 25, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
This project intitiates Bank Group operations in the water supply and
sanitation sector. It provides for studies on the preparation of master plans
for water supply, sanitation, and urban development; the review of existing
tariff and accounting systems with recommendations for improvement; a training
program for staff of the Agency for Power and Water Supply (SBEE); and
detailed design and bidding documents for a first stage construction program
to be carried out under a possible future project. This Credit is not yet
effective.
Credit No. 1189-BEN   Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; SDR
1.7 million Credit of November 10, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
This project, a joint undertaking involving Togo and Benin, would aim
at helping the two Governments complete preparations for the Nangbeto
Hydroelectric project, assist in improving planning in the power sectors of
both countries, provide assistance in institution-building, and strengthen
accounting procedures. The credit has not yet been declared effective.
Credit No. 1207-BEN   Technical Assistance to the Petroleum Sector Project:
SDR 7.0 million Credit of February 16, 1982; Effective-
ness Date: July 22, 1982; Closing Date: June 20, 1984.
This project would assist the government in training Beninese
personnel in oil field operations and petroleum exploration, promoting off-
shore exploration by foreign oil companies, and laying the bases for the
second-phase development of the Seme oil field.
Credit No. 1246-BEN   Second Education Project; US$14.0 million; Credit of
June 25, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
The Project's implementation is progressing satisfactorily with
technical assistants taking up their posts. An Agreement between the
Governments of Benin and Switzerland, for co-financing, has been signed, and
the Government expects the Agreement with the German Government to be signed
soon. Credit has not yet been declared effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I           Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification: the project was identified and prepared
under the Technical Assistance Project (Credit 716-BEN) of
June 3, 1977.
(b) Appraisal Mission: November, 1981.
(c) Negotiations: October, 1982.
(d) Planned Date of Effectiveness: April, 1983.
Section II          Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III         Special Conditions
The Government has agreed to:
(a) establish a project monitoring and evaluation unit (PMEU)
under the responsibility of the MDRAC for the duration of
project execution by September 30, 1983 (para 50);
(b) gradually eliminate subsidies on fertilizers and
insecticides over the period of project execution
(para 45);
(c) introduce for the 1982/83 cotton growing season an interest
rate of at least 11 percent per annum for seasonal and
medium-term credit, and, for subsequent seasons, adjust
this interest rate according to criteria agreed betwen
Government and IDA (para 33);
(d) introduce a system of bonuses for CARDER-Zour extension
personnel by June 30, 1983 (para 44).
Special conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
a. approval by the Association of CARDER-Zou's first annual
work plan and budget relating to the proposed project
(para 44);
b. approval by the Borrower of SONAPRA's statutes satisfactory
to IDA (para 35);
c. presentation of SONAPRA's organigram and opening balance
sheet (para 35);
d. establishment of, and initial deposit by Government of CFAF
68 million in, the Revolving Fund Account (para 44);



--29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
e. presentation of satisfactory terms of reference of a cotton
sub-sector study (para 40); and
f. effectiveness of the FAC Grant and CCCE Loan Agreements
(para 63).
Conditions of disbursement:
(a) for the fertilizer/insecticide component of the project
would be the announcement by Government of the new input
price schedule by March 31 of each year (para 45); and
(b) for the CNCA component of the project would be the execu-
tion of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower
and CNCA (para 33).






MALI                        i NI-GE R 
MAURITANI                                                G E R                                                                  r Go d     osly AY
<           -/   tX  tp~~~~kC H A D 9it   ~X
1"CA.EROO00 AEPIA   t'       \2                      /      <        5Ume      }1
ATI/N71C 06FAI           BONneCIUATL   )c0NGQW ,_                                                                              air t
U    P  P E R       V O  L T A                                                                                 r , /  erhper v A
p~~~~,CAAL9                                                  AUedebdo~~~~IAi
t~ ~ VOLTA5 y -                          'apoo                         |z                                        rsOaarkn*r e9rree
}-tc    ,)GHANZSfns /    2' '0                                A 
D J~~~~- -                                                           / on      /d    ul 
- TAA/Cl 06        obM  y      / -   GABON:    //abrknf                                        
ILs             I    T~~~~~~Vrdi      *\                  Gh rr r,_r
Nra,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
,/                                            /            i - -
T     O G  O
! | - . _ ,19 .~T... Tbo
l l   ..        ..  R  *                            ~~~~~~~~~~B  E r-1 I r-
i l                               ~~~~~~ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ar Kib N .PROJECT ARGEA
Lvov~~~~~~~K~    Pev9nebe  Ks -onc3r pra
E   0   {          1  (                                f Jr~~~~~~~~~~~Eth -.Cd,
9'                                                         9T 't R.g,o..l -por
Gro       -ptkvel s
 Diat-it capials
NLarvr !  A1<, 9 f bPugn  '--.                    I 4  - nternational boundories
A7~~~~~~~~~t !                             \                        - '-,--_ Pravircial boundaries
-2\   \W\    f      Wc      Q    ~~~Ad.k-&r 
85    A                  UE  n oR   N    '       a
GHANA                            A       Ft.%                                                               TILOMETERr  L
\ ~~~~~~A /H NI  ER  
G H A N A'<.  *OM                      d,i       o '0                                 0.f:
L   T    p     3       ;   f 0   ;;~~8    6         R: / G  #   5 O     fT  NFA  I 81                                              ;  



