Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3968-BEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 18, 1982
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =      CFAF
US$1.00            =       CFAF 340 1/
CFAF 1,000         =      US$  2.94
CFAF 1,000,000    =       US$ 2.941
FISCAL YEAR
January 1       -      December 31
WEIGHTS + MEASURES:  Metric
Metric                         British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2       0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )       0.386 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 metric ton (m ton)           2,204 pounds (lb)
'1 hectare (ha)                 2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (m3)             1.308 cubic yards
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
BBD       Banque Beninoise de Developpement
BCB       Banque Commerciale du Benin
CARDER    le Centre d'Action Regional pour le Developpement Rural
CATS      Cooperatives Agricoles de Type Socialiste
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CLCAM     Caisse Locale de Credit Agricole Mutuel
CNCA      Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
COBEMAG   Cooperative Beninoise de Materiel Agricole
CRCAM     Caisse Regionale de Credit Agricole Mutuel
DEP       Direction des Etudes et de la Planification du Ministere du
Developpement et de l'Action Cooperative
DRA       Departement de la Recherche Agronomique
FAC        Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FAS       Fonds Autonome de Soutien et de Stabilisation des Prix
des Produits Agricoles
FED       Fonds Europeen de Developpement
GRVC      Groupement Revolutionnaire a Vocation Cooperative
GV        Groupement Villageois
IRAT      Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales des
Cultures Vivrieres
MDRAC     Ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Action Cooperative
MPSCAE    Ministere du Plan, de la Statistique et de l'analyst
Economique
PMEU      Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
SONACEB   Societe Nationale pour la Commercialisation et l'Exportation
du Benin
SONACO    Societe Nationale pour le Coton (formerly CNCB)
SONAGRI   Societe Nationale pour la Production Agricole
SOPROCA   Societe Provinciale de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles
SONAPRA   Societe Nationale pour la Promotion Agricole
1/   Floating Exchange Rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND ................................................                               1
Introduction .........................................                            1
The National Economy .................................                            1
The Agricultural  Sector ..............................                           2
The Livestock  Sector .................................                           3
Rural Development  Policy .............................                           3
Sectoral  Institutions ................................                           4
Agricultural Training ................................                            7
Bank  Group  Involvement  in the Rural  Sector ...........                        7
TI. THE PROJECT AREA .9
Location  and Climate .................................                           9
Soils ................................................                            9
Vegetation ...........................................                            9
Hydrology ............................................                            9
Population ...........................................                            9 
Agriculture ..........................................                           10
The  Cooperative Movement .............................                          10
Agricultural  Support  Service .........................                         11
Infrastructure .......................................                           11
III.    THE PROJECT ...............................................                               11
Project  Objectives  and Description ...................                         11
Detailed Features ....................................                           13
Strengthening  and Reorganizing  the  CARDER-Zou ........                       13
Training .....................................                                   .........  13
Consolidation  and Development  of the  Cooperative
Movement .........,......................   14
Supply  of Inputs  and Agricultural  Eauipment ..........                       14
Equipment  for  Crop  Processing ........................                        15
Improvement  of Livestock  Health  and Productivity .....                        15
Agricultural Research ................................                           16
Seed Production ......................................                           17
Expansion  of Ox-drawn  Cultivation ....................                         18
Bottomland Development .....................                                     19
Improvement  of Water  Supply ..........................                        19
Monitoring  and Evaluation ............................                          20
Strengthening  of SONAPRA .............................                         21
Strengthening MDRAC's  Planning  Capacity ..............                        21
Assistance  to Cotton  Ginneries .......................                         21
Studies .......                                                                  22
Crop  and  Farm Development ............................                         23
Varieties ........... ....  23
Crop Development  Stages, Yields ......................                          24
Phasing .....                                                                    24
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MALNAGEMENT.,. .......................!. ......    25
Overall StructIure ........................2.5..      ....    25
Technical Assistance Staff ......................              26
CARDER Field Extension Service               .       .         26
OrganiZation of Cotton Marketing .... ..........               28
Input Supply and Seasonal Credit ..........--..               29
Medium-Term Credit ...      ......- .... ..............    30
V.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCAIL  ARRANGEMENTTS.S.......--....            31
Cost   E  stimates.                                   ... ............... ...........  31
Proposed Finasncing ....... ............... -.- .. .           31
Pre-financing Requirements ....................                33
Procurement ...................................                33
Disbursements ..................*........... -   ...    34
Financial Control, Audit and Reporting Requirements.    38
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS..L.T.S    39
Production .............                              - ..  39
Cotton Market  rospects. ............rspe.....                 39
Food Crop Market Prospects ....... .    ..........             40
Financial and Economic Prices of Benin Cotton .                40
Economic Price of Food Crops and Tobacco .........             41
Input and Product Price Policy ..................  ...    41
Producer 's Financial Returns .................         ...   44
Government s Cash Flow......................                   45
VII.  ECONOMIC BENEFIT, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ....... .. -.-.             45
Project Benefits and Their Distribution ........    45
Economic Analysis, Analytical Assumptions and
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) ..,............ -...    46
Sensitivity ....      .....  >...... ....e.e .   ...,0,,.....  47
Risks..  .......... .......                                    48
VIII. ASSURANCES AND CONDITIONS........ ........ .........  D....    49
Annex 1
Table 1  Project Components by Time .... ... .........                   52
Table 2A Estimated Schedule of Disbursement,...........  ..              53
Table 2B Recurrent National Fertilizer/Insecticide Imports...    54
Table 3  Government Cash Flow ................................           55
Table 4  Cotton Price Structure   ...........................   56
Table 5  Development of Representative Farm Models...-.....    57
Project Organigram                                                       58
Maps      IBRD  16246  Benin:  Zou Province - Infrastructure
IBRD  16247  Benin:  Zou Province Rural Development Project



BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      Introduction
The Government of Benin has requested IDA assistance in
financing an integrated rural development project component in the Zou
Province  (US$26.0 million)  and the country's  recurrent  fertilizer and
pesticide import requirements (US$33.6 million), costing together an
estimated US$59.6 million  equivalent  over  5 years.   The project was
identified in October 1978 by RMWA and prepared by the Bureau d'Etudes of
SONAGRI (Societe Nationale pour la Production Agricole) under the
Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 716-BEN), with the participation of
RMWA. The project was appraised in November 1981 by a team consisting of
Mr. 0.   Honisch, Ms. R. Jaisaard, Messrs. A. Rychener and A. Chavancy
(Consultant). Representatives of CCCE and FAC participated in parts of the
appraisal.
1.02      The National Economy
The People's Republic of Benin is situated in West Africa and is
bordered by Nigeria to the east, Togo to the west, Upper Volta dnd Niger to
the north and the Gulf of Guinea to the south. With 112,600 km total land
area the country is divided administratively into six provinces -- Mono
Atlantique, Oueme, Zou, Borgou and Atacora, of which Zou covers 18,700 km
or 17% of the country.   The country is predominantly agricultural and
mainly dependent on rainfall.  Two broad agroclimatic zones in Benin are
the Equatorial zone to the south, with a bimodal rain distribution and the
Sudano-Guinean zone in the north with a mono-modal rainfall pattern.
The topography of Benin is flat with medium to low quality soil types.
Mineral resources available include limestone, phosphate and off-shore oil.
1.03      Benin has a population estimated at 3.4 million (March 1979)
with a growth rate of 2.7% per annum. Eighty-one percent of the people live in
the rural areas and 95% of the adult labor force is engaged in agriculture.
The country has three regions: the northern region composed of Borgou and
Atacora provinces, which covers 73% of the area but has only 29% of the total
population; the central region, covered by the Zou province, represents
17% both of the land area and of the country's population; and the southern
region including Oueme, Atlantique and Mono provinces, which covers 10% of
the land area and has 54% of the total population.  Most of the southern
region's popu ation is urban.   The population density diaries from 12
persons per km  in the northern region to 30 persons per km  in the central
region and 160 persons per km  in the south.  The population is composed of
a number of ethnic groups of which the most important are the Ewe (55%),
the Yoruba (13%), and the Bariba (12%). While each ethnic group has its
own language, French is the official language.



- 2 -
1.04      Benin is one of the world's poorest countries, with per capita
incomes estimated at US$320 (1980). After a period of stagnation in the
early 1970s, GDP per capita grew at a rate peaking at 7% per year in
1975/76 and then levelling out at about 4.5% per annum over the period
1976-80.
1.05      The Government's three-year Development Plan (1978-80) had as
its objectives to raise agricultural productivity, to improve the standard
of living, to strengthen economic policies, to promote participation and
to implement economic and social changes.   The plan, while emphasizing
agricultural development, allocated a greater portion of the budget for
industrial investment such as the Cotonou port extension, the sugar
project at Save, the cement plant at Onigbolo and the Seme offshore oil
development project.   These projects  accounted  for about 50% of plan
investment while agricultural investment accounted for only 10% which was
insufficient to generate adequate production to meet local consumption and
export requirements.  The integrated rural development project in Borgou
province, which is co-financed by IFAD, IDA and Government, started
operation  in 1981.   By being  the  first  large-scale  integrated  rural
development project to be undertaken towards the end of the planning
period, it showed Government's efforts in balancing investments in
agricultural and industrial development.   Two additional  province-wide
rural development projects now under study, the Atacora Province Rural
Development Project (to be financed by IFAD) and the proposed Zou Province
Rural Development Project, continue the trend.
1.06      The Agricultural Sector
Agriculture  is  the  most  important  sector  of  the  Beninese
economy.  It employs 70% of the active population and provides 45% of the
GDP and 55% of foreign exchange earnings.   The sector is predominently
subsistence-oriented, producing yams, manioc, beans, maize,  sorghum and
small quantities of rice. The main cash crops are palm oil, cotton and
groundnuts.  Cotton is mainly for export while palm oil and groundnuts are
principally  for domestic  consumption.    Cultivation of these crops  is
usually done by traditional techniques with the exception of cotton and
maize, where new varieties of seed, and fertilizer and insecticides are
used. Farming patterns markedly vary by region. In the southern and most
of the central regions, two rainy seasons permit double cropping. Land is
used intensively, and the average farm size is 1.2 ha.   In the northern
region with only one rainy season the cropping pattern is less intensive
and the average farm size is 2.8 ha.  In the Zou province the average farm
size is 2.3 ha.
1.07      Benin experienced a five-year period of stagnation in staple
food production prior to 1976. After that year production increased as a
result of better weather and more attractive prices to small farmers.
Maize has been increasingly grown as a cash crop in response to growing
domestic demand and border trade with western Nigeria. Production of maize
reached 36,000 tons in 1978 due to a shift from manioc and the use of new
hybrid seed. Production of groundnuts has increased steadily in the north
and reached 64,000 tons in 1978, up from a low of 35,000 t in 1975.



Production of yams and sorghum has been stable at 530,000 and 60,000 tons
per year respectively. Production of rice which, together with wheat, are
major imports, has increased steadily since 1970. However at about 6,000 t
per year, domestic production is not fully supplying the domestic market.
For many farmers the development of a flourishing market for maize and
other crops has led to intensification of agriculture and, to a certain
extent, diversification away from traditional cash crops.
1.08      Export crop production has been variable.   Cotton production,
which was successfully introduced in Benin in 1963 under bilateral
technical assistance, rose from about 5,000 tons in 1965 to almost 50,000
tons in 1972. Cotton production fell sharply to 16,000 tons in 1976/77 but
has since recovered somewhat, rising to 18,000 tons in 1978/79 and 25,000
tons in 1979/80; however it had declined again to 16,000 t in 1980/81. The
major factor accounting for this variation appears to be the movement in
food crop prices relative to cotton prices, and the timely availability of
fertilizer and insecticides. Government has begun to take note of both of
these  factors  in its official  pricing  policy.   Palm oil  production,
concentrated in the south, has remained traditional and despite the
establishment of 30,000 hectares of modern plantations, production has
been affected by limited rainfall.   Nevertheless, under better weather
conditions prevailing recently output of palm oil and kernels has
increased. Since 1978-79, purchases of groundnuts on behalf of Government
have declined substantially as prices offered by Government to farmers
have been below open market  prices.   Government  purchases  have been
processed by SONICOG, the parastatal oil-milling organization for internal
consumption, and exports of groundnuts have been suspended.
1.09      The Livestock Sector
The livestock sector provided 9.4% of GDP in 1976. National herd
size estimates (1978/79) are 780,000 head of cattle, 881,000 sheep, 847,000
goats and 600,000 pigs. Production of cattle is concentrated in Atacora and
Borgou. Sheep and goats are mainly raised in Borgou, but they exist in all
areas. Pigs are more prominent in Zou and the three provinces in the south
than in the north.   The increase in domestic urban demand for meat and
dairy products has almost been met by the increasing livestock production;
however, prices are high. Consumption, which exceeds production by a small
amount, was covered by imports.
1.10      Rural Development Policy
Benin's rural development strategy as given in the 1978-80
Three-Year  Development  Plan  was  directed  at  achieving  food  self-
sufficiency, developing an internal market and increasing the income of
the rural population, and generating exportable agricultural surpluses.
These goals were to be achieved through improving productivity from the
greater and better use of inputs, developing food grain storage capacity,
strengthening the role of the public sector in production and marketing,
increasing the availability of credit, developing agro-industries and
expanding rural infrastructure.   This continues to be a generally sound
overall strategy for Benin at the current development stage. The policy



execution, however, was delayed in its earlier stages by restricted
finances  and  a  series  of  institutional  changes  resulting  from  the
Government's frequent reorientation.   The ongoing Borgou Province Rural
Development Project is the first large integrated rural development
project aiming to achieve some of the Development Plan's objectives, and
this is a significant step in consolidating and making the policy
operational.
1.11      Sectoral Institutions
The Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action (MDRAC)
is responsible for directing and controlling agricultural policy through
three Directorates,  responsible for:  (i) Agriculture,  (ii) Civil Works
and (iii) Quality Control. In 1980, a separate ministry was created for
livestock, the Ministry of State Farms, Livestock and Fisheries (MFEEP)
which was formerly a directorte of MDRAC.
1.12      At the national level, programs are executed by a number of semi-
autonomous State Societies (Societes d'Etat), five of which are under the
general supervision of MDRAC: SONAFOR (forestry), SONIAH (irrigation and
water   development),   SONAFEL   (fruits   and   vegetables),   SONAPECHE
(fisheries) and until a recent reorganization (para 1.18) SONAGRI (input
supply and cotton processing). Other state organizations are responsible
for the processing and marketing of export crops:   SOBEPALH is a palm
oil processing agency while SONICOG markets palm products and both
processes and markets groundnuts, and SONACEB (para 1.18) was responsible
for the export of all agricultural products except oil palm products.
The private sector handles efficiently almost all food crop marketing
and Government has had negligible influence in this area.
1.13      Primary  agricultural  production  is  promoted  and  organized
through provincial development centers -- CARDERs (Centre d'Action
Regional pour le Developpement Rural) -- which represent MDRAC and are
responsible for provision of inputs, extension, cooperative and primary
marketing services, maintenance of rural roads, water and other
infrastructure development.   However, since their creation in 1976, the
CARDERs have lacked adequate financing and staff. In 1980, the district
structure was reorganized in Zou, increasing the number of districts from 8
to 15, each with a chief officer responsible for maintaining liaison with
community representatives and coordinating the work of Government
departments  (including  CARDERs).    With modest  changes  in management
structure the CARDER-Zou would be capable of project execution (para
4.02).
1.14      In addition  to the State  Societies and the CARDERs,  sector
operations are complemented by a number of important supporting
institutions.   Agricultural  research,  formerly under  the direction of
foreign research institutes--IRHO (oil palm and coconut), IRCT (cotton)
and IRAT (food crops)--reports to the Ministry of Higher and Technical
Education and is organized into a number of Research Units with responsi-
bility for specific crops. To date, work to improve cotton and food crop
varieties has been promising, requiring only financial support to complete
development of useful recommendations.



- 5 -
1.15      The agricultural credit agency--CNCA (Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole), directed by a national committee composed of MDRAC, the
Ministries of Finance and Commerce and State Society representatives--
extends credit to state enterprises, the CARDERs and to individuals.  At
provincial and community levels the CNCA is associated with regional and
local agencies (CRCAM and CLCAM). CNCA has had responsible management to
date and its performance--although restricted by low volumes of credit to
offer--has been efficient.
1.16      Until the reorganization of institutions in the cotton sector,
the Autonomous Stabilization Fund (FAS) was an agricultural price stabili-
zation fund created to protect producers against fluctuations in export
crop prices and to administer Government's input support program.   Its
price stabilization operations covered cotton, groundnuts, coffee,
sheanuts and tobacco and its major input support expenditures were for
distribution of fertilizers and insecticides.   For price stabilization,
FAS paid the exporting agency, e.g., SONACEB for cotton and groundnuts, an
amount sufficient to equalize the unit price received in world markets with
the prices paid to producers plus processing and marketing costs.   For
export crops, costs are tabulated in the crop's bareme, which is a
statement of standardized costs of each step in the production and
marketing chain which indicates the share of the total revenue earned by
the crop accruing to that step.   FAS was also responsible  for paying
Government's contribution to the cost of fertilizer and insecticide
acquisition and distribution. SONAGRI imported and distributed the inputs
to CARDERs, who subsequently redistributed them to farmers at officially
determined  prices--usually with  seasonal  credit.   In principle,  once
acquisition  and  distribution  costs  were  known  and  farmers'  credit
repayments were collected, FAS was expected to pay Government's subsidy
which is the difference between the actual cost and the official price paid
by farmers.
1.17      The relationship  between FAS and SONACEB worked effectively
to improve SONACEB's financial position.  However, SONAGRI and the CARDERs
were unable  to fully account  for all of  the costs  they incurred  in
marketing products (particularly cotton).  Thus they did not demonstrate
adequately their need for a greater share of revenues earned from export
crops.   Measures initiated under the Borgou Province Rural Development
project have begun to help SONAGRI and CARDER-Borgou to improve in this
area, and improvements in CARDER-Zou's cost accounting would enable it to
participate with better data at the annual bareme negotiations (para
1.30).   However, major difficulties have arisen between FAS,  SONACEB,
SONAGRI and the CARDERs concerning the financing of input supplies.
SONAGRI and the CARDERs have had difficulties in determining actual costs
of input delivery as a basis for reimbursement from FAS, again owing to
weak accounting. Moreover, CARDERs have had a poor record of recovering
seasonal credit for inputs which has left an additional financing gap that
FAS has been unable to fill.   This situation has left the CARDERs and
SONAGRI with considerable debts.   As part of the Borgou Province Rural
Development Project, debts of SONAGRI and CARDER-Borgou were absorbed by
the CAA (Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement). Those of CARDER-Zou, although
small by comparison ($490,000) were also absorbed by CAA in September, 1982
as preparation for the proposed project.



- 6 -
1.18      Increased demands on FAS resources have left it unable to honor
Government's commitments to pay subsidies in a timely fashion.  This has
meant that Government has had to resort to ad hoc means to finance
insecticide and fertilizer purchases which have caused delays in ordering
and delivery, and created uncertainty for suppliers. Part of the problem
has been the complex inter-relationships between the institutions
involved, but Government has recently decided to reorganize the function
of FAS, SONACEB, and SONAGRI into a new organization, the SONAPRA (Societe
Nationale pour la Promotion Agricole), with a single management structure,
specifically for acquiring and financing fertilizer and for exporting
cotton.   SONAPRA would regroup the  functions of the three  superceded
organizations into departments covering input procurement and distri-
bution,   finance  and  administration,  marketing,   and  stabilization.
Approval by the Borrower of SONAPRA's statutes satisfactory to IDA, and
presentation of a satisfactory SONAPRA organigram and opening balance
sheet, would be conditions of credit effectiveness (para 8.02,d and
8.02,e).   The ginneries formerly owned and operated by SONAGRI would be
transferred to the CARDERs, who would coordinate their operation with
primary marketing of seed cotton, which would also remain with the CARDERs.
Management of the cotton sector would thus be consolidated under the
leadership of one ministry (MDRAC). Thus, the reorganization appears to be
basically sound and a potential benefit to cotton sector operations. To
monitor the management of the cotton sector, Government agreed at
negotiations to formulate a cotton sector account and to define clearly its
relations with inputs acquisition,  distribution and stabilization.   In
addition, Government agreed at negotiations to hire consultants who would
make recommendations for the improved management of the cotton sector and
account, by June 30, 1984.  Presentation to IDA of acceptable terms of
reference for a study leading to these recommendations would be a
condition of effectiveness (para 8.02,f).
1.19      The financing difficulties being encountered by Government in
making subsidy payments have prompted it to reconsider its subsidy policy.
When fertilizer and insecticides were distributed mainly to cotton growers
in relatively small quantities, Government could finance about 90% of the
subsidy from charges included in the cotton bareme, so that funding from
the general budget was  limited.   However,  with  the revitalization of
extension services such as those under the Borgou Province Rural
Development Project, and the justified intensification of fertilizer use
on food crops, which are increasingly becoming cash crops, quantities of
modern inputs used in agriculture are projected to increase substantially.
Along with this growth in use would be an equally large growth in the cost
of subsidies and Government's difficulties in financing them. Recognizing
this, agreement was reached between co-lenders and Government in
connection  with  the  Borgou  Province  Rural  Development  Project  that
Government would begin reducing rates of subsidy from levels of about 70%
to about 40% by 1985.  Government has begun to implement this policy (para
6.10).  Yet even with this policy, the amount of subsidies for the years
1983-87 are projected to be about $26 million because of further growth in
input use  encouraged  by new  rural development  projects  Government  is
proposing to inaugurate because of their high economic and social value.
Therefore Government has now decided to eliminate subsidies on fertilizer
and pesticides over a period of the next six years (1983 to 1988) and has
asked for the financial assistance of IDA, CCCE, and to a lesser degree
IFAD, in implementing this new policy (paras 4.11, 6.10).



-- 7 -
1.20      The National Pricing Commission (Commission Nationale des Prix)
sets farmgate prices for major crops as part of the baremes negotiated at
the beginning of each agricultural campaign.   On behalf of Government,
State Societies have sole franchise for the main export crops and these can
function fairly well for non-food crops since few alternative markets are
open for smallholders.   Official prices are also announced  for maize,
sorghum and certain other food crops; however, unofficial food crop prices
determined on the open market are generally higher than official prices,
explaining Government's insignificant participation in food crop marketing
(para 1.12).
1.21      Agricultural Training
Four levels of professional agricultural training are available
for primary school graduates:
(a)  The Faculty of Agriculture (created in 1972) of the National
University offers a 6-year course to secondary school leavers
and produces 5-10 "Ingenieurs des Services Agricoles" (ISA)
(General Agriculture Graduates) annually;
(b)  The  School   of  Agriculture,   Medji  and  the  Agricultural
polytechnic (level 2) at Sekou (Atlantic) train "Conducteurs des
Services Agricoles" (CSA) who follow a four-year, post junior
secondary school course. The annual output at this level is 30;
(c)  Agricultural polytechnics  (level 1) at Ina (Borgou) and Porto
Novo (Oueme) train two types of extension agents:
(i)   "Agents Techniques des Services Agricoles" (ATSA) follow a
four-year, post primary school course at Ina or Porto Novo
and become Chef Sous-Secteurs (CSS). Their current annual
output is 60;
(ii)  "Encadreur" and "Animatrice" are employed by CARDERs as
village extension agents (Agent de Vulgarisation or AV)
following one year of training (post primary school) in an
"Ecole Pratique Agricole" at Ina or Porto Novo.   Their
current annual output is 150.
The present annual output of each of these categories of professional
agriculturalists would be inadequate relative to the national requirement
if immediate needs to fill all extension service posts were to be met.
This problem is exacerbated by inadequate facilities and insufficient
operating  funds  to train  the  graduates  properly.    Possible  national
remedies are currently under discussion between Government, UNESCO (who
have recently undertaken a study projecting manpower requirements) and
international lenders with a view to improving the training capacity for
professional agriculturalists.   Under the proposed project training for
provincial   extension   agents   and   farmers   would  be  substantially
strengthened and reorganized (para 3.06).
1.22      Bank Group Involvement in the Rural Sector
IDA has financed four projects in the rural sector.  The Hinvi
Agricultural Project (Cr. 144-DA, US$4.6 million, 1969) involved planting



- 8 -
6,000 ha of oil palm, complementary maize, bean, and groundnut production,
and oil mill construction.   The Zou-Borgou Cotton Project (Cr. 307-BEN,
US$6.1 million, 1972) was an attempt to stimulate basic production, but
performed disappointingly.   The Technical Assistance Project (Cr.   716-
BEN, US$1.7 million, 1977) which followed up the Zou-Borgou Project was
designed to strengthen SONAGRI and the CARDER institutionally and to
prepare proposals for future agricultural investment projects. The Rural
Roads Project (Cr. 717-BEN, US$5.5 million, 1977) built up feeder road
planning and construction capabilities in the MTPCH (Ministry of Public
Works, Construction and Housing), and improved some 300 km of rural roads.
The Borgou Rural Development Project (Cr. 1127-BEN, US$20 million, 1981)
involved the strengthening and support of institutions and of technical
infrastructure, integrated with improved extension, cooperative training
and social services.  Lastly, a follow-up feeder road project (Cr. 1090-
BEN, US$7.0 million, 1981) serves urgent feeder road requirements in all of
the country's provinces.
1.23      Important lessons have been learned from the Zou-Borgou Rural
Development Project and the Borgou Province Rural Development Project.
Detail on the Zou-Borgou Rural Development Project is contained in the PCR
and PPAR (#2034, August 20, 1980) and discussed in the SAR for the Borgou
Province Rural Development Project (#3157-BEN, February 24, 1981).   The
PCR and PPAR for the Zou-Borgou Rural Development Project found that early
in project execution, unexpectedly strong economic competition for cotton
arose  from maize.    However  project  managers  retained  the  project's
emphasis on cotton production.   In addition, institutions dealing with
cotton in particular and agriculture in general were frequently changed
and fractionalized, which reduced experience-building and efficiency. The
official attitude hardened against technical assistance participation in
project execution and against the promotion of cotton for export, which
severely weakened critical performance in the areas of extension, cotton
ginning and marketing, and made Government indifferent to the declining
position of cotton vis-a-vis food crops.   At the same time, relations
between the Bank and Government became increasingly strained which limited
the possibility for meaningful technical and policy dialogue at
operational levels. It was concluded, therefore, that subsequent projects
should be designed to focus on a range of crops and that a significant
component   of   subsequent   projects   should   involve   institutional
strengthening. Moreover, as pre-conditions for continued Bank involvement
in developmental projects in Benin, Government would accept technical
assistance participation to the extent that this was operationally
justified and modify policies to be consistent with attaining project
production  objectives.      Government's  willingness  to  accept  these
conditions led to the successful preparation, appraisal and initiation of
the Borgou Province Rural Development Project, which incorporated a multi-
crop approach, operational technical assistance and material support for
institution building.   After about  one-year's  operations,  the Borgou
project is progressing well in that appraisal estimates for production are
being met and institutional strengthening is occurring as expected.
Government has also altered cotton and input prices following agreements
made at negotiations which were designed to provide warranted incentives
to farmers.  Most importantly, however, constructive dialogue has begun.
Unfortunately, with the commencement of the Borgou Province Rural
Development Project it has become clear that difficulties continue to



- 9 -
exist in financing and delivering sufficient quantities of imported
fertilizer and insecticides to permit project objectives to be fully
attained. This issue has been extensively discussed with Government and
would be dealt with in the context of the proposed project (para 3.08).
II. THE PROJECT AREA
2.01      Location and Climate
The Zou Province lies in the southern part2 of Benin (70 to 80 30'
north and 1030' to 2030' east) and covers 18,700 km  of mostly flat land.
The climate is transitional, in between the Sub-Equatorial coastal
conditions and Sudano-Guinean conditions of north Benin.   The rainfall
varies between 1,100 and 1,200 mm, falls in 75 to 105 days and is
distributed into two seasons, the first from mid-March to end July, the
second from September to mid-November. The length of the intermittent dry
season in August decreases towards the north, but the bimodal rainfall
pattern still allows for two crop seasons per year.
2.02      Soils
In the south, degraded red ferrallitic soils cover about 15% of
the project area.  They have a sandy to silty texture, less than average
fertility, but can produce with adequate fertilizer good yields of maize,
groundnuts and cotton. Ferruginous tropical soils are spread over about
60% of the province; their texture is silty to sandy, and fertility is
average.   They are well suited to the production of cereals,  legumes,
tubers, cotton and tobacco. The rest of the area is covered by lowlands
with heavy textured hydromorphic soils offering a good potential for rice
production, and by isolated pockets of fertile vertisols.
2.03      Vegetation
In the south, the original forest has been replaced by a thin
cover of palm trees interspersed with food crops, and in the north by
savanna yith scattered trees and bushes. Classified forests occupy about
1,200 km .
2.04      Hydrology
Two permanent rivers collect water from several temporary
streams,  the  Oueme  and  its  tributory,  the  Zou.    The  geomorphology
complicates access to groundwater, usually found in depths of more than
40m. Wells are frequently without water towards the end of the dry season,
and only well constructed boreholes provide a reliable source of healthy
water. The proposed project would contribute to improved water supply in
the province (para 3.19).
2.05      Population
The population of 570,000 (census of 1979) represents 17% of the
national total and has been growing at 2.7% per annum.  The rural areas



- 10 -
provide a livelihood for about 550,000 people or 76,000 farm families.
About half of the population is less than 14 years old.  In the north, a
farm family includes on the average 8 people, 4 of whom are adults; in the
south the average  is 7 people of whom 3.5 are adults.   About 40,000
families live in the northern part and 36,000 in the southern part of the
provine e.  The population density in the seven sou tern districts is 105
per km , in the eigh,y northern districts 18 per km , and the provincial
average is 32 per km.
2.06      Agriculture
Crop production is diversified and largely traditional.  Maize
is cultivated on more than 30% of the area, followed by groundnuts (20%),
cassava (15%), cowpeas, yam, sorghum, cotton and rice. Cotton is the only
crop grown at an improved level of technology. It was introduced in 1964,
reached a peak of 22,000 ha and a production of 19,000 t in 1972-73 (40% of
national total), and then declined mainly due to unattractive producer
prices, weakness of the extension service and problems with input supply.
In 1981, the total area under cotton cultivation was 6,500 ha. Livestock
production is of a lesser importance but has a good potential for improve-
ment which would be supported under the proposed project (para 3.10).
About 400,000 small ruminants (sheep and goats) and 60,000 cattle are
raised in the province.   The animals generally suffer from a number of
diseases, and from insufficient nutrition and lack of hygiene.
2.07      Average farm size in the south is 1.8 ha, in the north 2.7 ha,
and the cultivated area over the two rainy seasons is estimated to be 2.7
ha and 3.4 ha, respectively. Cultivation is manual and animal traction is
pratically non-existent.   Awareness of the importance of fertilizer and
pest control is steadily growing.
2.08      The Cooperative Movement
The cooperative movement started in 1971 with the creation of
village groups (GV), with the objective of coordinating the provision of
inputs and marketing services for groups of cotton growers.  Since 1977,
Government encouraged a new type of farmer  groups  called "Groupement
Revolutionnaire a Vocation Cooperative" (GRVC) based on individual
ownership of land and equipment similar to GVs, but with a higher degree of
planning and organizing cotton and food crop fields into larger blocks of
land for ease of input supply, pest control, marketing and extension advice
and  supervision.    In  1978,  Government  created  as  an  experimental
alternative to GRVCs, socialist type cooperatives (CATS) with communal
ownership of equipment and land, and communal work and remuneration. At
the end of 1981, the province had 186 GRVC with 3,050 members, and 13 CATS
with less than 300 members. The GRVC operate well, the potential for their
increase is considerable, and the proposed project would strengthen this
type of cooperative groups (para 3.07). CATS are much less successful, do
not enjoy farmers support and of the 13 groups established, the majority
does not really function.   Government does not intend to increase their
number over the project period and they will not be supported under the
project.



- 11 -
2.09      Agricultural Support Service
The "Centre d'Action Regional pour le Developpement Rural"
(CARDER) with headquarters in Bohicon is the province's main agricultural
support service.   It operates  through seven divisions  - training and
cooperatives, extension, land development, marketing, livestock, research
and development, and administration and finance, which are subdivided into
22 sections. CARDER's field service is organized into 15 district offices,
each directed by an agricultural district officer - RDR (Responsable de
Developpement Rural), 51 sub-sectors headed by a sub-sector chief - CPA
(Charge de la Production Agricole), and 185 zones, each with an extension
agent in charge.  The professional hierarchy goes, in descending order,
from agricultural graduate (Ing. Agr.) to technical officer (CSA), and to
agricultural  assistant  (ATSA)  and  extension  agent  (AV).    The  CARDER
organization is not very efficient; services need retraining and operating
means and performance incentives are lacking.   Under the project,  the
CARDER would be reorganized and strengthened, to be able to implement an
intensified rural development program in the province (paras 3.04 and
chapter IV).
2.10      Infrastructure
The province is served by 1,930 km of roads, of which about 200
km are tarred.   Road maintenance  is inadequate and certain areas are
inaccessible during the rainy season. Under the IDA financed Second Feeder
Road Project (Credit 1090-BEN) it is planned to upgrade about 170 km of
roads and to improve maintenance.  CARDER-Zou headquarters buildings and
storage facilities are generally sufficient and in good condition.   The
district offices are mostly rented; they are simple but adequate.  Rural
storage facilities cover only about 50% of actual needs and require
improvement.   Cotton ginning capacity is more than sufficient, with a
modern, well-functioning ginnery at Glazoue (18,000 t), and older
(currently non-operating) ginneries at Savalou (12,000 t), and Bohicon
(6,000 t).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
3.01      The project's main objectives would be to improve the level of
rural incomes and to expand agricultural production of both export and food
crops through strengthening and support of institutions, integrated with
improved applied research, seed production, and extension, cooperative
training and social services. The project would build on the experience
gained in the Zou-Borgou Rural Development Project (para 1.23) by dealing
with a range of crops which enter into a complete cropping rotation rather
than focussing strictly on cotton. On the other hand, given its role as
the most important source of foreign exchange earnings for Government, a
significant source of cash income for farmers, and in the short run, a crop
which can serve as collateral for seasonal credit, cotton would have a
special place in the project. Therefore, steps would be taken which would



- 12 -
continue actions initiated under the Borgou Province Rural Development
Project to check and then reverse the decline in cotton production which
occurred in the mid 1970's (para 1.23). These actions include the provision
of necessary physical support in the form of production inputs and material
for extension and working services (paras 3.04, 3.08, 3.14, 3.21); reorga-
nizations of essential institutions (paras 4.02, 4.05 through 4.09); and
the achievement of modified Government input and product price policies
through dialogue and financing of structural adjustment in the area of
input subsidization (paras 6.10, 6.11).   In the early 1970's measures
similar to those being proposed were responsible for the successful
introduction and promotion of cotton production (para 2.06).
3.02      The project is expected to reach about 38,000 farm families (or
half of Zou's total) by PY5 and generate an incremental production of some
5,700 t of cotton, 5,200 t of maize, 4,000 t of groundnuts, 3,300 t of
cowpeas, 400 t of paddy and 200 t of tobacco.
3.03      These objectives would be achieved through the following project
components and actions:
(a) strengthening and reorganizing the CARDER-Zou, the project
executing agency, including provisions for technical assistance,
consultancies and training;
(b) consolidation and development of farmers' cooperative movement;
(c) improved quality and supply of inputs to farmers through
financing both incremental and recurrent cost of national
fertilizer/insecticide requirements;
(d) introduction of better primary cotton marketing and processing,
and of an efficient credit system;
(e) improvement of cattle and small ruminant husbandry through
introduction of animal health care;
(f) strengthening applied research on foodcrops and cotton and
production of improved seed;
(g) expansion of ox-drawn cultivation over about 1,500 ha through
provision of credit for 300 pairs of oxen and an equal number of
ox-cultivation equipment;
(h) labor intensive rehabilitation of some 200 ha of bottomlands,
reconstruction of 100 village wells and construction of 50 new
wells;
(i) setting up a project monitoring and evaluation system;
(j) strengthening SONAPRA's cotton lint marketing efficiency through
better organization of the marketing system;



- 13 -
(k) reinforcing MDRAC's capacity to formulate strategic options
for further agricultural development, and specification of
investment proposals;
(1) provision of technical and organizational assistance to cotton
ginneries; and
(m)  studies for preparing a possible follow-up project, and for more
efficient organization and management of CARDER's field services.
B. Detailed Features
3.04      Strengthening and Reorganizing the CARDER-Zou Headquarters and
Field Staff
The organization of CARDER-Zou is bulky, inflexible, and
inefficient.   Improvement would  be achieved  through  strengthening  of
senior management, simplifying headquarters structure, raising the
technical level of staff, qualitative and quantitative reinforcement of
training, tighter organization and supervision of field services, and
provision of technical assistance and consultancies in expertise currently
not available in Benin.
3.05      The CARDER, an organization with some 600 staff is directed by
one overextended manager.   Under the project,  headquarters management
would be strengthened by appointment of two Deputy Project Managers - one
technical, the other financial- and by the introduction of a decentra-
lized, operational management system. Functionally related services would
be combined, thus reducing the number of divisions from 7 to 4, and the
number of sections from 22 to 16 (para 4.02). Headquarters office facilities
would be improved by means of additional office space, supplies and
equipment.  Means of transportation would also be provided for relevant
personnel.   In the field  structure,  superfluous  subsector chiefs  and
extension agents would be redeployed as input supply and credit, and
literacy instructors.  Extension services would be reorganized along the
principles of the training and visit ("T & V") system (para 3.06) which was
introduced in Zou province in 1980 under the Technical Assistance Project
(para 1.22).   The project would enable CARDER field staff to be more
effective  by  increasing   transportation  capability,   input   storage
facilities and varius specific-purpose equipment.
3.06      Training
CARDER's weak agricultural training capacity would be improved
by building up the human and material resources of the training section. A
competent national agricultural graduate with demonstrated pedagogical and
organizational  skills  would  assist  a Training  Specialist.    Training
support staff consisting of two technical officers (IASA or CSA level)
would also be recruited. A modern training facility constructed under the
IDA financed Rural Education and Training Project (Cr. 583-BEN), is
available in Bohicon next to CARDER headquarters. The facility consists of
a forty-bed dormitory and adequate teaching and social infrastructures.
Other training section equipment to be provided under the project would
include a minibus for about 20 persons for trainee transportation, a small
mobile audiovisual unit, a library and other teaching materials, and



- 14 -
agricultural  demonstration  tools  and equipment.    Initially,  2-3 week
training courses would be provided for all types and levels of the Zou
extension staff, with annual refresher courses thereafter.   Subsistence
costs for trainees and for visiting lecturers would be financed.   The
training section would also organize training programs for farmers and
cooperative workers, and utilize successful examples of the on-farm
demonstration program for farmers. The Training Specialist would work out
annual training syllabi and timetables. The training program would be an
integral part of the project's annual work plan and would be submitted to
IDA for review (para 4.03).  The project would also provide up to eight
man-years of overseas training of senior CARDER personnel, as well as forty
man-months  of short-term consultancies.    A  list  of  proposed  subject
matters and durations of the scholarship and consultancies is available in
the Project File.
3.07      Consolidation and Development of the Cooperative Movement
As in the Borgou province, farmers in the Zou share a strong
commitment  for  communal  actions  and  mutual  cooperation.    Based  on
favorable past experience with GRVCs (para 2.08), the project would
concentrate its efforts on this type of cooperatives. The objective would
be to expand the block cultivation system, already proven successful in
both the Borgou and Zou provinces. In the latter, an estimated 750 ha of
cotton and foodcrops were cultivated in blocks in 1981. This approach is
expected to increase the potential and efficiency of the extension
services,  and  facilitate  the  operation  of  the  "T&V"  system.    After
appropriate training (para 3.06), extension agents would be responsible
for intensifying contacts with existing GRVCs, and for upgrading the
estimated 400 GVs to new GRVCs, to allow for greater farmer participation
in the project.  They would be supported by trained cooperative officers
and input supply and credit officers, improved farmer training and demons-
trations, better quality and organization of input supplies and improved
cotton marketing. The GRVCs would become a principal vehicle for project
impact, and their number is expected to increase from 186 in PYO to about
550 in PY5. Other producers would continue to receive assistance through
the remaining  and newly  created  GVs.    The  current  750 ha  of  crops
cultivated in blocks would increase to about 5,000 ha under the project.
This trend is expected to continue after the project's implementation
period, as other smallholders receive training and are exposed to field
demonstrations in their localities.
3.08      Supply of Inputs and Agricultural Equipment
Timely and adequate availability of appropriate production
inputs would receive high attention under the project and would be
supported and partly financed through a revised seasonal credit program
(para 4.10), coupled with improved cotton marketing (para 4.07).
Fertilizers and pesticides would be provided on credit only to cotton
producers offering satisfactory security but would also be sold for cash.
As a result of these activities, by PY5 the anticipated use of fertilizer
would amount to about 3,300 t, and that of pesticides to 290,000 1.
Agricultural equipment and machinery would be provided through a medium-
term  credit  system  (para  4.11).    Some  3,300 ultra-low-volume  (ULV)



- 15 -
sprayers for pest control, and 300 units of ox-drawn equipment are expected
to be supplied under this system to project participants over the project
disbursement period. Storage capacity at CARDER's district centres would
be enlarged to provide appropriate protection to inputs at intermediate
distribution points.  Seven districts with insufficient storage space were
identified and consequently,  in each of them a 100 m  store would be
constructed under the project, according to a priority list to be worked
out by CARDER-Zou. A detailed breakdown of input requirements by project
years and crops is available in the Project File.  Funds would be made
available  to finance both the incremental  input requirements  for the
project, as well as a decreasing percentage of the annual recurrent cost of
these inputs.  In addition, finance would be made available to cover a
decreasing percentage of the recurrent cost inputs in the rest of the
country (excluding the requirements of the Atacora Province, which would
be financed by IFAD under a separate rural development project for that
province) over a period of about 5 years during which time Government
would restructure its input pricing policy.
3.09      Equipment for Crop Processing
A simple domestic industry of crop processing is widespread in
the province.  The industry has been developed and is operated by women
with the aid of female extension agents  ("animatrices").   It concerns
mainly transformation of maize into flour, groundnuts into oil, cassava
into gari and/or tapioka (the first are finely ground and roasted particles
of cassava, the second is cassava starch), yams into "cosettes" (usually
sliced, flat, dried pieces of yam), and finally paddy into rice.   The
industry has only limited output.  To improve the situation, the project
would provide for demonstration purposes on the pilot basis, three maize
shellers, three groundnut oil presses, three small rice hullers, and one
cassava and one yam processing unit. The equipment would be rotated among
selected women's groups and the operation would be organized and super-
vized by female extension agents (para 4.05). A women's group which wished
to acquire a unit after the demonstration period would be helped to do
so through regular medium-term credit supplied by the regional agency
(CRCAM).   This experimental program in use of intermediate  technology
for crop transformation would be monitored by the extension service
and with the help of the PMEU (para 3.20).   After two to three years
of experience with the adoption rate by women's groups, the program would be
reviewed to decide which equipment merit further dissemination through
a more general medium-term credit program.
3.10      Improvement of Livestock Health and Productivity
The Zou province has about 60,000 head of cattle and 400,000
small ruminants, giving an average of 0.8 and 5.3 per farm family,
respectively.  Diseases and parasites are widespread and productivity is
low. The most important cattle diseases are rinderpest, trypanosomiasis,
pasterellosis, and gastro-intestinal parasites.   Small ruminants suffer
mainly from pest and intestinal parasites. This situation persists in part
because CARDER-Zou's livestock and animal health service is weak, with few
trained personnel and virtually no operating means. Under the project this



- 1 6 -
situation would be improved by providing for additional personnel,
equipment and means of transport, and through provision of training and
short-term  consultancies.   The  livestock and animal health extension
service would also train farmers in principles of animal hygiene and
improved nutrition, particularly through better utilization of crop
residues, prevention of bush fires, and provision of mineral licks.  The
low status of animal health would also be improved by the provision of
means for acquiring vaccines and medicines which have not been readily
available.   It is estimated that by PY5 70% of the province's cattle
population would be treated for rinderpest and intestinal parasites, 60%
for trypanosomiasis, 40% for pasterellosis and 10% for anthrax, and
protection would be provided to 20% of small ruminants against pest and
intestinal parasites.  In line with current practices in other livestock
interventions in Benin, project personnel would charge CFAF 30 per
vaccination, CFAF 250 per three trypanosomiasis treatments and CFAF 25 for
internal parasite treatments, the latter recommended twice per year.
These charges are expected to cover the cost of the vaccines, which would
be financed by a revolving fund on an incremental basis.  An additional
responsibility of the livestock division would be a phased purchasing of
about 300 pairs of oxen in the north of Benin for supply to farmers
interested in the introduction of ox-drawn cultivation (para 3.16).
3.11      Agricultural Research
All agricultural research is directed by the Department of
Agronomic Research (DRA) in the Ministry of Higher Education and
Scientific Research.   The responsibility for foodcrop research in the
southern part of Benin is with the Niaouli station, about 70 km south of
Bohicon.   In the Zou, the Niaouli station operates through three small
substations.    Two  of  these  are  in  similar  ecologic  conditions  and,
therefore, one of them would not be supported by the project. Work on rice
is carried out by a national "Programme de Recherche Rizicole", having a
small administrative headquarters at Bohicon and experimenting in the Zou
mainly at Sagbovi-Dome, some 40 km east of Bohicon, next to a large
irrigated perimeter belonging to SONIAH (Societe Nationale d'Irrigation et
d'Amenagement  Hydroagricole).    Cotton research,  with headquarters  in
Cotonou, works in the Zou through three out-stations, two of them located
in similar ecological zones in the north, and one in the south of the
province.   As in the case of food crop research, one of these northern
outstations would not be developed.
3.12      Results of past research work have been translated into proven
crop growing recommendations for maize, groundnuts, cowpeas, and cotton
(paras 3.23 to 3.25) which are the main crops to be supported under the
project.  However, a critical lack of funds and, in some instances, of
qualified personnel has considerably slowed down research progress in
recent years and threatens to disrupt continuity even of some important
long-term trials. For the same reason, work in some essential areas, such
as tuber crop research (cassava and yam occupy 21% of Zou's cultivated
area   and provide 40% of  the population's  food)  and  farming  systems
research, has not yet started. Revival and consolidation of research is of
prime importance for a sustained development of the agricultural sector in
the province.



- 17 -
3.13      The  proposed  credit  would  partly  finance  strengthening  of
research planning capacity, qualified personnel, and related investment
and operating costs.   An internationally recruited food crop research
specialist at the Niaouli research station would be responsible not only
for trials on crops and farming systems research but also for medium and
long-term programming and training of local personnel.   Three national
agricultural graduates and support staff would be recruited to cover the
above-mentioned neglected research areas.   The officer-in-charge of the
research station would be liberated from administrative duties through
recruitment of a technical officer (IASA or CSA level) who would take over
these obligations. Required infrastructure, materials and equipment would
also be financed.   Existing infrastructure,  equipment and materials of
rice and cotton research would be renovated to provide a sound basis for
carrying out project related applied research and primary seed production
for these two crops. Research stations would be encouraged to maintain and
strengthen contacts with international and national research units in West
Africa, such as IITA Ibadan, WARDA Monrovia, and IRAT Bouake, for exchange
of  information  and  planting  materials.    The  research  program would
concentrate on agronomic trials, variety screening, pest control,
breeders' seed production and farming systems, and would be prepared in
close  coordination with  CARDER-Zou  technicians.    It would become an
integral part of the project's annual work program (para 4.03) and would be
submitted for IDA review.
3.14      Seed Production
The principle of seed multiplication employed in the project
would be a simple,  low-cost approach,  consisting of producing modest
quantities of "foundation seed" (Fl) and "registered seed" (F2), at the
project's seed farm.  This would contrast with the semi-industrial seed
multiplication introduced under the Borgou RDP.  After several years of
operations, comparisons should be made as to the relative advantages of the
two types of seed multiplication under Beninese conditions. The farm would
initially concentrate on improved maize and groundnut seed, of which 15 t
and 24 t, respectively would be produced annually at full development
(PY3).  Project participants would receive small amounts of "registered
seed" (1 kg of maize annually, 10 kg of groundnuts each third year), which
they would regrow on small plots under qualified project supervision, to
produce their own "certified seed" (F3) for sowing on their commercial
plots the following year. Essential to the success of the system would be
good organization and field inspection of seed plots, which have been built
into the design of this component (details in Project File). Cotton seed
for the Zou farmers is being supplied from several South Borgou districts
(growing the same variety as in the Zou) through the ginnery in Glazoue.
The system is established and functions well.  A small quantity of rice
seed (about 1 t annually) would be required for seed regeneration of
project participants, and this would be produced by the rice research
station at Sagbovi-Dome. Requirement for tobacco seed would grow from 40
kg to 70 kg annually (by PY5), and this amount would be supplied by the
adequately equipped station at Ouoghi, in the district of Save.



- 18 -
3. 15     The CARDER-Zou has about 1,000 ha of land at Za-Kpota, some 25 km
east of Bohicon, which is well suited for establishing a seed farm.
Sufficient land is available to provide for isolation requirements and for
any future extension. A suitable site of about 100 ha would be selected
and cleared in PYO under PPF financing.  For the initial three years of
operations, the farm would be managed by an internationally recruited Seed
Specialist to be provided by the project. A national agricultural graduate
as deputy seed farm manager, and support personnel, including a team of
four seed inspectors, would be provided as well. A seed treatment unit,
office,  laboratory and s orage  space,  and a field workshop would be
constructed on about 350 m . Machinery to be financed by the project would
include two tractors and associated machinery and equipment, such as one
corn picker,  one  groundnut  lifter  and one groundnut  separator.   The
relatively small quantities of maize seed to be harvested at the end of the
first rainy season do not require an artificial drying installation.
Instead, initially four and later ten proven drying cribs would be
constructed, predominantly out of local materials.  Each crib can store up
to 2.8 t of cobs, equivalent to some 2 t of grain.  Groundnuts, grown in the
second rainy season and harvested after the rains, would be dried using
traditional methods. The seed treatment chain would include a reception
pit, balances, shelling (maize), cleaning, grading, dressing (maize) and
begging machinery plus  necessary elevators  and conveyors  (details  in
Project File).   Groundnut seed would be shelled and dressed by farmers
shortly before planting.   The seed farm would have a truck for seed
delivery to districts and subsectors. The seed would be initially sold to
farmers for cash at crop market value, and as from January 1, 1986 at the
latest, Government would institute charges sufficient to cover variable
costs of production (para 8.01, h).   In the meantime, the proceeds from
seed sales would be used to offset the farm's operating costs.
3.16      Since  neither  costs  of  mechanized  operations  nor  of  seed
production are known in the project area, the seed farm would also serve as
a machinery  demonstration  and  testing unit.   A  trained agricultural
assistant with  one or  two recorders  from the Project Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit  (TMEU) (para 3.20) would be permanently assigned to the
seed farm, to monitor and record output and costs of field machinery.
Results of this exercise would be used, together with cost of other inter-
ventions, to calculate the cost of seed to farmers as outlined in para
3.15.  Responsible for training of this personnel and for supervision of
quality of the data collection would be the Chief of the PMEU.
3.17      Expansion of Ox-drawn Cultivation
The Zou is not a traditional cattle rearing province and
dissemination of ox-drawn cultivation is difficult. Less than 100 pairs of
oxen are currently estimated to be used in the province, predominently for
transport.   However, conditions are not unfavorable for ox-cultivation,
particularly in the north of the province, and farmers have guarded
interest.  Under the project it is proposed to establish and equip eight
ox-demonstration teams under the District Agricultural Officers' (RDR)
personal responsibility, six in the north and two in the south. Each team
would consist of one extension agent, two pairs of oxen and a full range of
equipment (frame, plough, ridger, seeder, weeder, harrow and ox-cart).



- 19 -
The teams would work on farmers' fields in major villages and show the
advantages and capacity of ox-drawn cultivation. Since almost no farmers
are able to provide their own oxen, the project's livestock division (para
3.10) would purchase oxen in the northern cattle-rearing provinces of
Benin. Medium-term credit (para 4.11) for the purchase of oxen and the
essential plough or ridger would also be provided. The project will also
provide farmers with necessary training. Farmers also require assistance
in destumping their fields, which is an essential condition for ox-drawn
work, because this operation is largely beyond their capacity.   Project
management would establish initially five and later ten destumping teams,
consisting of two workers equipped with a chain saw and monkey-winch.
Destumping of about 2 ha per farmer, purchasing oxen and equipment, would
be part of the package.   Destumping services would be provided free of
charge and farmers would participate by providing labor. It is anticipated
that by PY3 about 50 pairs of oxen would be sold, with 100 in the following
year (PY4), and 150 in PY5.
3.18      Bottomland Development
Despite the considerable bottomland potential of the Zou
Province estimated to be at least 14,000 ha, only about 800 ha are actually
used for rice cultivation.   Main reasons for the under-utilization are
insufficient knowledge of the hydrologic and pedologic properties of the
lowlands, and lack of extension efforts and technical aid to farmers to
develop them. Under the project, this would be improved through streng-
thening of CARDER-Zou's lowland development section (within the land use
division) with technical personnel, specialised equipment and materials
and means of transportation. The section would identify in PYl, and plan
and organize over PY2 to PY5 a low cost, labor intensive development
program for some 200 ha of lowlands. A typical site would have an area of
between  5  to  15 ha.    The  principal  improvements  would  consist  of
constructing about 40 cm high contour bunds, used according to needs for
water conservation or drainage, and of establishing a central drainage
canal. The development would be close to those villages with demonstrated
interest in rice growing and where farmers have agreed to supply the
necessary  labor.   Development  cost  is estimated at $550 per ha,  and
incremental production would reach about 260 t of paddy annually. Improved
seed varieties and agronomic recommendations for rice growing would be
provided. No provision for cost recovery of development costs is made in
the planning stage but an effort to devise and implement an effective cost
recovery mechanism would be undertaken as the lowland development program
proceeds.
3.19      Improvement of Water Supply
Perennial rivers are limited in the province and the main source
of water for human use is approximately 300 wells and boreholes, giving an
average of 1 for 2 villages. An estimated 30% of the wells supply limited
or no water towards the end of the dry period. The aquifer is not easily
accessible, since groundwater is found usually at a depth of 40 to 70 m.
Availability of water is a critical constraint to human health and
productivity. The well maintenance section of CARDER's land use division
would be strengthened by a technical officer (CSA level) specialized in



- 20 -
this work and by two well maintenance teams, each comprising a well-digger
as team leader, an assistant, two pulley operators and two bricklayers.
The teams would be supplied with necessary transport, equipment, and
supplies. The initial task would be to complete an inventory of provincial
wells and plan a maintenance and construction program with agreed
priorities by September,  1983.   The program would include training of
village well-maintenance personnel.  The investment to be financed under
the proposed project would be rebuilding of 100 wells and construction of
50 boreholes. The latter would be subcontracted to the provincial "Service
de l'Hydraulique" which owns the necessary equipment. Prior to rebuilding
or construction of wells or boreholes, the villagers would agree to
contribute in kind through the supply of free auxiliary labor.   The
rebuilding cost per well is estimated at $1,100 and the construction cost
of a borehole at $9,300 of which imputed labor cost would be about 60% and
30%, respectively. These are generally in line with costs under similar
conditions in other West African countries. There has been no dialogue on
cost recovery to date but a discussion would commence on a standard policy
on village well development in rural areas at negotiations that would
continue during project execution.
3.20      Monitoring and Evaluation
A Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) would be
established at Bohicon to monitor project execution and the impact of the
project on farmers. Basic information on project inputs and outputs would
be secured periodically from routine regular operational records within
CARDER and SONAGRI, with impact information coming from regular surveys of
participants. Data on changing economic and market conditions would also
be monitored. Experience with other integrated rural development projects
shows that such information is vital for modifying current operations and
devising future plans. Moreover, such information would later serve as a
basis for project evaluation, leading to recommendations for changes in
approach and identification of components for a possible future project.
Funds would be made available to finance three years of an internationally
recruited specialist who also would lead the unit, train local staff, and
supervise a newly recruited staff of 18 recorders and analysts.   These
incremental personnel would be paid under the project and would be
supplemented by temporary staff for peak survey periods and support field
survey operations whenever necessary. The PMEU would also be provided with
appropriate vehicles and equipment. Detailed terms of reference for the
specialist are available in the Project File. His first order of priority
would be to agree with project management and MDRAC on key indicators and
methodology required to monitor project execution. In doing this, he would
take into account the experience of the PMEU in the Borgou RDP, with which
he generally would stay in close contact for exchange of ideas and
experience. A detailed PMEU's work program would be submitted to IDA for
approval within six months after the arrival of the specialist in Bohicon
but in any case, not later than September 30, 1983 (para 8.O1,d). In view
of the anticipated existence of three PMEUs in three development projects
in Benin (Borgou, Zou, and proposed IFAD-assisted Atacora), there is a need
for a central coordinating function of these specialized units at the level
of MDRAC.  The Ministry's Bureau d'Etudes appears to be best suited for



- 21 -
this role and a qualified and competent individual from this ministry, who
would be in charge of this activity to be financed by Government, has been
identified.
3.21      Strengthening of SONAPRA
Under the Borgou RDP, financing was provided to support an
internationally recruited financial controller and a chief accountant, to
consolidate the financial management of SONAGRI.   Both specialists have
been in post since September, 1981. Funds were also provided to acquire 18
man-months of short-term consultant services for operation and maintenance
of ginneries, for workshop organization and management, and for logistics
of transport fleet operations.   Since the need for provision of these
specialized short-term consultancies is likely to be of a longer term
nature, the proposed project would continue to finance their activities
after the credit closing date of the Borgou project.   In addition,  an
international cotton lint marketing consultancy would be provided (para
4.09).  With the absorption of SONAGRI into SONAPRA, these arrangements
would continue. A cotton sector account would be established within SONAPRA
to consolidate for the first time all information related to Benin's cotton
production including inputs acquisition and price stabilization function.
By June 30, 1984, a study would be completed recommending the steps to be
taken in assuring optimal management of the sector.   The elaboration of
terms of reference for this study, acceptable to IDA, would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (para 8.02,f).
3.22      Strengthening MDRAC's Planning Capacity
With the beginning of the proposed Zou Province Rural
Development Project about 75% of Beninese agriculture would be covered by
integrated rural development project activity. The Zou Province, Borgou
Province and Atacora Province projects would provide significant support
to field operations in these provinces. Bilateral assistance now supports
similar activity in Atlantic Province.   However, the scope of activity
under these projects is limited to the provincial level, and the cotton
circuit (also principally a concern of Zou and Borgou provinces). In order
to capitalize on these projects, MDRAC now needs to strengthen its
capacity to undertake more strategic sectoral planning which would lead to
the definition of new development options and setting of priorities among
the options.  At the time of preparation of the Zou and Borgou Province
RDPs, the Bureau des Etudes of SONAGRI had partially performed this task at
the level required, with the support of the IDA financed Technical
Assistance Project. Now the Direction des Etudes et Planification (DEP)
within MDRAC has been designated by Government to perform the function of
conducting strategic planning on a national basis, and initiating in a
systematic way the preparation of investment programs to be executed under
subsequent five-year plans.   Funds would be made available under the
proposed project to reinforce DEP in its expanded role; specifically to
provide the services of two technical assistance staff for a total of five
years (terms of reference in Project File); about 20 man-months of short-
term consultancy services; oversee training for senior Beninese technical
staff; and aggregate office equipment and means of transportation.



- 22 -
3.23      Assistance to Cotton Ginneries
The  experience   of  past   ginning   seasons   in  Benin  has
revealed considerable weaknesses in technical and operational support to
cotton ginning operations at central level, as well as in the actual
management and technical performance of the country's three operating
ginneries.   Two of these are located in the area of the Borgou Province
RDP, and one in the area of the Zou Province RDP. In addition, with the
recent absorption of SONAGRI into SONAPRA (para 1.18), Benin's limited
central operational and planning expertise in cotton ginneries has
been  lost  through  retirements  and  resignations.    For  these  reasons,
provision of support to this highly specialized activity under the
Zou Province RDP  is needed.   Therefore,  a consultancy mission,  to be
financed under the Borgou RDP, would visit Benin in the first half
of 1983 to study the situation and propose the creation of a central
ginnery support unit to be financed under the proposed project.   The
initial function of the unit would be to carry out a technical analysis
and evaluation of the ginneries with the objective of making their
operations more reliable and efficient. It is anticipated that an interna-
tionally recruited ginnery specialist would be placed to Benin for the
period of about four years.   His qualification and experience would be
acceptable  to  IDA  (para  8.0l,b).    His  detailed  terms  of  reference
would be worked out by the above consultancy mission and would include
planning of operational and post-season technical maintenance and
revision, planning and judicial advance procurement of necessary spare
parts, ginnery organization and management including technical quality
control, and special emphasis would be given to on-the-job training
of national managers and technicians.
3.24      Studies
A study of organization and management of CARDER-Zou field
services and their methods of intervention with the farming community
would be financed as part of the project and initiated in PYI.  Its main
objective would be to continue on a more systematic basis the work started
by the appraisal mission in the area of simplifying and upgrading CARDER's
organizational structure of extension and advisory services (paras 4.05 to
4.06). While not critical for present project execution, there are some
questions about the management of the CARDERs' field services for which
answers  are not obvious  and which warrant further enquiry.   Terms of
reference of the main managerial, technical and support positions would be
reviewed and proposals would be made for increasing the efficiency and work
output of the heavily staffed field services and testing new approaches,
possibly combined with some staff reductions.   Recommendations would be
discussed with Government, and if found viable, they would be introduced
under the project on a pilot basis in a test zone comprising one or two
agricultural districts.  If results of the changes proposed in the CARDER-
Zou were successful, Government would be encouraged to introduce the
experience on a wider scale into the remaining five CARDERs.   The study
would require about eight man-months of consultants' work. Detailed terms
of reference are in the Project File. By PY3, an additional study would be
initiated to prepare a possible follow-up project. The proposed project's
interventions are expected to involve about half of Zou's farm families,



- 23 -
leaving scope for a future increase in the number of participants. This,
coupled with new developments in crop production techniques expected to
become available under the strengthened research component financed by
this proposed project, would provide a basis for a follow-up project. The
total cost of the study would be about US$0.4 million and it would include
some 29 man-months of consultancies.
3.25      Crop and Farm Development
Technical crop growing recommendations and packages to project
farmers would be based on research results obtained in the national
food crop and cotton research program, and proven in farm demonstrations
and pilot commercial production. The recommended cropping system would be
based on a cotton-food crop rotation, in which compound fertilizer is
applied to cotton and the succeeding food crop benefits from the residual
fertilizer effect with a demonstrated yield increase of up to 30%.
Fertilizer application directly to food crops would also be done in higher
crop development stages.
3.26      Varieties
The maize variety actually recommended is the simple hybrid NH-2
(ex Niaouli), having the advantage of a slower genetic erosion than most
other hybrids. Two open-pollinated varieties are also being tested: the
TZPB (ex IITA Ibadan) and La Posta, widely grown in neighbouring Togo. All
three varieties have a yield potential of about 4.5 t/ha and have yielded
well over 2 t/ha on progressive farm fields. Intensive variety screening
and breeding work has been underway in Niaouli for several years, and
improved varieties  are expected  to be  released  shortly.    Concerning
groundnuts, apart from the local variety Moto, three improved varieties
are available: KH149A, TE3 and TS3201 (all ex Upper Volta).  Their yield
potential is in the region of 2.5 t/ha; they are rosette resistent but show
some susceptibility to rust which would have to be followed closely. Their
introduction has started and before better varieties from the ongoing
screening at Niaouli become available, they would be multiplied at the
project's seed farm and disseminated to farmers. The local cowpea variety
Kpod iguegue is well appreciated by the population and has shown good
response to phosphorus  fertilizer and to pest control.   Initially,  an
improved package based on this variety would be recommended by the
project's extension service. In the meantime, work has well advanced in
Benin with screening alternative varieties, and particularly Vita 4 and
Vita 5 (ex IITA Ibadan) are promising. Concerning rice, IR-442 (ex IRRI)
has been disseminated for several years and it appears well adapted to
Zou's conditions. Another variety, the ADNY-ll (ex Sierra Leone), is giving
very good results in research. The yield potential under local conditions
is around 4 t/ha. The tobacco variety performing well in Benin is called
Paraguay and its cultivation would be continued.   The currently grown
cotton variety is the HAR-444.2, but within one or two years it will be
replaced by L-299-10.75, which has a slightly higher productivity and longer
fibre.



- 24 -
3.27      Crop Development Stages, Yields
Cropping practices of participating farmers would be expected to
move from stage 0 (without project, all traditional) through an inter-
mediate stage I (traditional food crop varieties, following fertilized
cotton in rotation, modest pest control in cowpeas, 50 kg/ha urea for rice)
to the full development stage II (improved varieties, seed dressing, 100
kg/ha of urea top dressing for maize, 50 kg/ha and 20 kg/ha of P 20  basal
dressing for groundnuts and cowpeas respectively, improved pest conlrol in
cowpeas, 100 kg/ha of urea for rice).   For cotton, stage 0 includes 100
kg/ha of fertilizer compound NPKSB (15-25-15-5-1.8) and modest pest
control, stage I is 150 kg/ha compound fertilizer and intermediate pest
control, and stage II is 150 kg/ha compound fertilizer plus 50 kg/ha urea
topdressed, and full pest control (details in Project File).   Resulting
yield estimates are shown below:
Yield Estimates (Kg/ha)
Project's
Weighted                  Stage II
Stage                   Average      Yield         as % of
Crop              0        I        II            in PY5       Potential   Potential
Cotton            600      800   1,000              860        2,700          37
Maize             600   1,000   1,600               740        4,500          36
Groundnuts        600      800   1,100              820        2,500          44
Cowpeas           350      500     700              580        N.A.           -
Rice              700   1,000   1,300               880       4,000           33
Tobacco           400      600     800              510        N.A.           -
3.28      Phasing
The phasing of farmers into the project and their adoption of
improved  production  techniques  is  expected  to  be  facilitated  by
substantial improvement of support services foreseen, by the farmers'
generally progressive attitude, and by the fact that about one quarter of
farmers are already growing some crops using improved seed and inputs. As
a result of expanding participation in the project, it is anticipated that
by PY5 almost all cotton growers would be using improved techniques corres-
ponding to stage I or II, and about half of farmers would cultivate one or
more of their food crops at a comparable level.  Expected growth in the
number of participants is shown below. The PYO figure (in brackets) shows
farmers already growing cotton and/or maize under some improved techno-
logy.
No. and % of Total of Project Participants
(PYO)         1         2          3          4          5
(18,000)  21,000    24,000    28,000    33,000    38,000
(24%)     27%        30%        35%        41%        48%



- 25 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      Overall Structure
The proposed project would be administered by the CARDER-Zou,
whose Director would become Project Manager (PM). He would report directly
to the Minister of Rural Development and Cooperative Action (MDRAC) in
Porto Novo. For input supply and cotton lint marketing the Project would
have close cooperation with SONAPRA. The PM and two newly created Deputy
Project Managers - one for technical development, the other for finance and
administration  - would  be  qualified  and  administratively  experienced
officers.   Assurances to this effect would be obtained from Government
(para 8.01 , b).
4.02      The CARDER-Zou would be reorganized to reduce unnecessary lines
of communication so as to maximize attention to farmers'  needs.   Four
divisions at Bohicon Headquarters, complemented with the seed farm at Za-
Kpota reporting to the Technical Deputy Manager, (Organigram No. 23620)
would replace the existing seven as follows:
(i) Finance and Administration: involving six sections responsible
for budgeting and accounting, all aspects of physical input
supply and credit administration, personnel management and
administrative services, organization and supervision of the
project's transport fleet, vehicle and machinery maintenance and
repair services; and cotton ginning operations;
(ii) Land Use Services: with three sections involved in the develop-
ment of bottomlands, rural water supply, the management and
supervision of water and forest resources;
(iii)  Extension Services:  responsible through six sections for crop
extension services including demonstrations of new production
techniques, training of all level of extension staff, organiza-
tion and promotion of cooperatives, organization and guidance of
rural youth groups, home economics and alphabetization and crop
processing, and demonstration and popularization of ox-drawn
cultivation;
(iv)  Animal Husbandry:   organized in two sections, one responsible
for extension advice to farmers and animal production, the other
for provision of a comprehensive animal health service and for
supply of suitable animals for ox-drawn cultivation to farmers.
4.03      To provide sufficient incentives to attract and retain qualified
staff, Government has agreed to increase the salaries of CARDER-Zou
personnel from their budget to those of corresponding levels in state
enterprises by December 31, 1983 at the latest (para 8.01 , g).   This
realignment follows the approach agreed upon under the Borgou Province
RDP.   In addition, the project would introduce and provide finance in



- 26 -
support of a bonus system rewarding good performance for extension
personnel. On a pilot basis, such system was tried out with good results
in 1978 and 1979, and has also been introduced in 1981 in the Borgou
project.   With  close  attention  to the experience  in Borgou,  project
management would work out details of the system by June 30, 1983 and send
them to IDA for comments (para 8.01,f).  CARDER management would introduce
a system of annual work plans and associated budgets for each district as
the basis for project implementation.   Introduction of this system and
submission of the first such acceptable work plan for 1983, would be a
condition of effectiveness (para 8.02,a).   Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that subsequent annual work plans and budgets would be sent to
IDA for comments by December 31 of each preceding year (para 8.01,c).
Project reporting requirements would consist of annual reports, to be
submitted to IDA by February 28 of each year, and of quarterly reports
(para 8.01,e).
4.04      Technical Assistance Staff
Finance would be provided for 45 man-years of specialist
technical personnel whose skills are currently unavailable in Benin, in
thirteen positions from three to five years. Detailed terms of reference
of this staff are in the Project File. Some of these posts would be line
positions, and the appointment of Beninese counterparts of appropriate
calibre would be required to ensure effective succession on termination of
each  technical  assistance  contract.   The  terms  of reference  of each
technical assistance staff member requires that appropriate attention be
paid to on-the-job training to permit a smooth transition of responsi-
bility to local staff, and the project training specialist would monitor
progress in this area. Assurances would be obtained from Government during
negotiations that the experience and qualification of incumbents of these
positions would be at all times acceptable to IDA (para 8.01, b).  This
would include:
(i)  for CARDER-Zou:    the Technical  Deputy Project Manager;  the
Financial Controller; the Chief Accountant; the Seed Production
Specialist; the Input Supply, Credit and Marketing Specialist;
the Training Specialist; and the Workshop Manager;
(ii)  for PMEU  in MDRAC:  an Agroeconomist  specialized  in project
monitoring and evaluation; for DEP (Direction des Etudes et de
Planification) in MDRAC, two Agroeconomists specialized in
strategic sector planning and project analysis; and for the
central ginnery support unit a Ginnery Specialist;
(iii) for research: the tropical Foodcrop Research Specialist; and
(vi) for SONAPRA: a Senior Accountant.
Short term consultancies for CARDER, SONAPRA and agricultural research
totalling about seven man years, would also be provided.



- 27 -
4.05      CARDER Field Extension Service
Project financing would assure the means for reorganizing CARDER
field staff by raising the calibre and improving working conditions and
productivity of field workers, implementing a "T and V' system already
initiated under the TA Project, coordinating cooperative development and
instituting for regular retraining.   Existing staffing at all levels is
being reviewed by the Director of CARDER-Zou and unsuitable staff would be
replaced. Some services would be strengthened through lateral transfers
of  superfluous  staff.    Nine  unnecessary  subsector  chiefs  would  be
transferred to strengthen the cooperative and input supply service,
sixteen superfluous female extension workers would reinforce the regular
crop extension and the literacy service.   A supply officer (intendant)
would be appointed in each district with two assistants for supervising
input supply, credit and marketing services. Some of these appointments
have already been made. Below RDRs, subsector chiefs would be reorganized
to create 33 ATSA or CSA posts (para 2.09), and would be renamed to "Charge
de la Production Agricole"  (CPA).   Each would be responsible  for 2-3
communes (15 villages). Female extension officers, working with groups of
women in each village, would be responsible for promoting improved health,
hygiene and nutrition practices at family level and helping to organize and
provide advice on simple and intermediate crop processing methods (para
3.09). At village level, existing extension agents (AV) would be reorga-
nized into commune teams and those unsuitable for retraining would be
reassigned. About 200 agents, each looking after two to three villages,
would be responsible for organizing agricultural production of GRVCs and
individual farmers. By PY5, each AV would be expected to provide advice
to about 190 farmers. A similar reorganization has been undertaken under
the Borgou Province RDP, and its first year's experience is positive.
4.06      The efficiency of the extension service would be improved through:
(i) better planning, coordination, work organization and review, and
minimizing involvement with organizing input supplies and cotton
marketing;
(ii)  coordination of farmer production into a single GRVC system
centered on rotational block cultivation and a "whole farm"
development concept involving an annual package of two to
three specific crops;
(iii) greater mobility by provision of pick-up vehicles for each RDR
and supply officer, motorcycles for all other district officers
and each CPA, and mobylettes for AV and home economics officers.
Motorcycles and mobylettes would be supplied to staff on a loan
and allowance basis;
(iv)  provision of continuing in-service training for all extension
officers, commencing with short retraining courses for all CPAs
(former subsector chiefs);
(v) improved back-up services, farmer training and information, time-
liness of input supplies, and of marketing; and
(vi)  introduction of a bonus system for extension personnel (para 4.03).



- 28 -
Responsibility for this upgrading would primarily rest with the Technical
Deputy Project Manager (para 4.04).
4.07      Organization of Cotton Marketing
Primary Marketing: The CARDER was previously and would continue
to be responsible for primary cotton marketing. It determines a calendar
of marketing dates and designates marketing points, provides agents to be
part of buying teams and to manage cash. In the Zou the number of small-
volume markets has grown from about 200 in 1977/78 to over 800 in 1979/80
to encourage cotton production.   The CARDER contacted SONAPRA (formerly
SONAGRI) for the provision of trucks for transporting seed cotton, but
since 1978/79 it has increasingly used private truckers to provide
transport that SONAPRA has not been able to provide for lack of sufficient
operational vehicles. Also, collection of cotton by SONAPRA trucks has not
always been well coordinated with the calendar for buying teams, and
deliveries to the ginnery have not been well coordinated with the ginnery's
ability to accept and store seed cotton. As a result, collection has been
slow and the marketing season too long to assure high quality seed cotton.
4.08      Under the project the system would be modified to assure that
CARDER would be able to efficiently execute its responsibility. Under the
reorganization of organizations in the cotton sector, the management of
the ginneries would be transferred to the CARDERs, which would remove one
area where lack of coordination between organizations reduced efficiency.
Taking into account the advice of its field staff concerning the best dates
of harvesting, CARDER-Zou would prepare a calendar of market dates and
points. The market points would be determined so as to assure efficiency
in the use of trucks and fairness to producers, but only market points at
which at least 10 tons of seed cotton representing one full truckload
without trailer could be collected would be retained.  Routings would be
drawn up in PY1 with the assistance of a short term consultant on
dispatching and this program would be revised each year thereafter
following  the model  established.    Two market  controllers  and  their
assistants, operating from the Glazoue ginnery, would be responsible for
daily scheduling of trucks and buying teams following the plan previously
worked out. They would also be responsible for securing the services of
private truckers to supplement in-house trucking capacity as needed.
District cotton buying teams would be organized, composed of selected
CARDER extension agents and coordinated by district CARDER supply
officers.   They would be given basic training by CARDER-Zou's financial
controller in cash control and by the ginnery manager and quality
controllers in grading.   About 10 individuals employed for the 3 month
buying period would be responsible for about 30 markets each, with large
markets possibly requiring more buyers. By PY5 each buyer would purchase
about 20 tons per day.  Purchasing teams would also have a weigher and
several laborers to load the trucks, recruited by the chairmen of GRVCs and
paid by CARDER-Zou as a direct operating cost. Making farmers aware of the
time and place of the market and organizing them to be ready just before
the market day would be the responsibility of the District Cooperative
Agent. The CARDER supply officer, responsible for credit recovery, would
also be present at each market. Seed cotton would be evacuated directly to
the ginnery at the close of each purchase day. To the degree that a second
round of purchasing was needed, similar procedures would apply.



- 29 -
4.09      Secondary Marketing:   Since 1977/78, marketing of cotton lint
and cotton seed was conducted efficiently from a technical point of view,
with SONAGRI selling and delivering lint and seed to SONACEB, which was
responsible for assembly, storage, grading and exportation. Improvements
have been made in domestic grading, with SONACEB employing a full-time,
internationally recruited grading specialist who is training Beninese
staff.   Under the new reorganization of the cotton marketing agencies,
these functions would be incorporated into SONAPRA.  However, there are
indications that Beninese lint has often been sold on international
markets for a lower price than would be expected for lint of similar
quality parameters.  It is evident that Benin has not sufficient expertise
to assure sales of lint for a fair price.   Therefore, an international
cotton lint marketing consultancy of about 12 man-months would be financed
under the project to help establish this expertise in Benin.
4.10      Input Supply and Seasonal Credit
SONAPRA would, as SONAGRI did in the past, procure and receive
delivery of fertilizer and insecticides for all CARDERs in Benin. Orders
from the CARDERs should be received by September, permitting the bidding
for national requirements to be completed and the contract awarded by
November. This would permit deliveries to be made to Cotonou by January,
and ultimate distribution to the CARDERs and their district stores by end
March. Delivery of inputs to Zou province would be coordinated by CARDER's
input supply section (ISS) and done by both Government and privately
contracted truckers. The ISS would assure delivery of the rest of inputs
to district  stores using CARDER and hired trucks.   Once  inputs were
delivered, SONAPRA would receive on behalf of each CARDER the value to be
charged  to  farmers  in  their  respective  provinces.    CARDER-Zou,  for
purposes of prefinancing farmers' contribution, would seek interim
financing from CNCA which would be reimbursed at the end of the season from
farmer credit repayments.  CARDER-Zou would obtain this short-term credit
at an interest rate of 9% from CNCA.  In turn, it would charge farmers a
rate of 11% per annum over the time they utilize the credit.  Over the 5-
year project period this spread of 2% on the non-subsidized cost of
fertilizer and insecticide would contribute some CFAF 60 million (US$0.2
million) towards CARDER's credit administration costs. Government agreed
under the Borgou Province Rural Development Project to establish a rate of
interest at 11% and to review and adjust interest rates country-wide when
information on administrative costs became available from the CARDERs
whose cost accounting capabilities were being improved, such as that of
CARDER-Zou. At present, with only one year's experience under the Borgou
Province Rural Development Project, a proper accounting of the costs of
credit administration and non-recoveries is not yet available. However,
Government agreed at negotiations to review and adjust rates under
the  proposed  project  (para  8,01,a).    Initially,  following  present
practice, seasonal credit would be granted only to farmers who grow
cotton since this crop, which is officially marketed, provides collateral
for loans.   Credit repayments would continue to be made when cotton is
marketed.   As experience  is gained elsewhere in Benin with providing
seasonal credit to food crop farmers who are members of GRVC's (as in the
IFAD financed Atacora Rural Development Project), this policy would be re-
evaluated with  the possibility that it could be liberalized.   In the
meantime, inputs would be available for sale on a cash basis throughout the
project zone.



- 30 -
4.11      Recent procurement of inputs has been late, however, owing to
Government's difficulties in making funds available to prefinance
purchases and assuring the availability of funds needed to cover input
subsidies. Part of the reason is institutional (para 1.18) and Government
is in the process of reorganizing and amalgamating responsible agencies.
On the other hand, as input use has increased, encouraged by successful
extension services, the amount of Government subsidy has also increased
and would continue to do so unless remedied stages are taken. Government
has recognized the seriousness of the situation and has progressed to
gradually eliminate subsidies within six years. The proposed IDA and CCCE
credits would contribute financial resources to assist Government to make
adjustments in present input price policies (para 6.11).
4.12      Medium-Term Credit
To finance a pair of oxen and implements for ox-drawn cultiva-
tion, CNCA would extend medium-term credit to farmers through its "Caisse
Regionale de Credit Agricole Mutuel" (CRCAM).  While CNCA's headquarters
is located in Cotonou, lending and savings in rural areas have over the
past years been built-up through a network of regional CRCAMs and local
GLCAMs ("Caisse Locale de Credit Agricole Mutuel"). CRCAMs and CLCAMs are
staffed by CNCA personnel and their initial lending capital consists of
subscriptions by farmers (FCFA 1,000 per participating farmer).   In the
past CRCAMs' and CLCAMs' lending has been very limited and was tightly
controlled by CNCA, and mainly consisted in administering small savings
accounts of GRVCs and individual farmers.   This lead to a considerable
under-utilization of existing staff in these small regional and local
saving banks. There is, therefore, no need to strengthen CRCAM or CLCAMs
with additional staff and it is estimated that 300 medium-term credits
-- 50 in PY3, 100 in PY4 and 150 in PY5 -- could be handled by existing staff.
4.13      Medium-term credit to farmers would be at an interest rate of 11%
over three years, repayable in three equal annual installments. Farmers'
applications would be reviewed by CARDER's technical staff for credit
worthiness  and  technical  feasibility,  and with  the appropriate  recom-
mendations would be passed on to CRCAM, Bohicon, for further action. Credit
recovery would occur annually through a CRCAM field agent at a cotton
marketing points. Should a farmer be in default, the CRCAM agent would liaise
with CARDER technical staff to determine the cause of non-payment and the
two would propose remedial action to CRCAM/CNCA. The financial controller,
to be recruited under the project for CARDER-Zou, would about twice
a year, review CRCAM's credit accounts to ensure proper accounting and
follow-up of individual credit accounts.   Thus far, the credit recovery
under CRCAM has been satisfactory.



- 31 -
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Cost Estimates
5.01      Total project cost including taxes is estimated at CFAF 21.3
billion (US$62.7 million). Out of this the cost of the Zou Province Rural
Development Component amounts to CFAF 9.9 billion (US$29.0 million) with a
foreign exchange component of 65% or CFAF 6.5 billion (US$19.0 million).
Customs duties and identifiable taxes are estimated at CFAF 0.9 billion
(US$2.7 million) and represent 9% of total cost (excl. inputs).  Thus, the
Rural Development Component's cost net of taxes amounts to CFAF 9.0 billion
(US$26.3 million) of which foreign exchange represents 72%. The CIF cost
of the recurrent national fertilizer/insecticide imports (para 5.03 ii)
over the 5-year project period is estimated at CFAF 11.4 billion (US$33.6
million).
5.02      Cost estimates are based on end-1981 prices and include physical
contingencies of 5% on civil works, vehicles and equipment, 10% on all
other costs except wages,  salaries and technical assistance, and price
contingencies applied on baseline costs plus physical contingencies
compounded as follows:
Annual Rates %               1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
i.   Fertilizer, insecticides,
chemicals                    10.8   11.0   10.5   10.2    9.0    9.0
ii.  Other costs:
Local                     12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0
Foreign                    8.0    8.0    7.5    7.0    6.0    6.0
The higher price escalation factor on local costs is based on the estimated
annual inflation for Benin. Detailed cost estimates are presented in Annex
1, Table 1, and are summarized in Table 1.
B. Proposed Financing
5.03      The proposed financing plan would be as follows:
(i) The Zou Province Rural Development Component's cost net of taxes
would be financed by Government (US$3.0 million, or 12% of total
cost), IDA (US$14.8 million or 56% of total cost), CCCE (US$4.8
million or 18% of total cost), and FAC (US$3.7 million or 14% of
total cost).



- 32 -
(ii)  Costs of the recurrent national fertilizer/insecticides imports
would be financed by Government (US$4.1 million or 13%), IDA
(US$5.2 million or 15%), CCCE (US$1.8 million or 5%) and farmers
(US$22.6 million  or  67%).    While  farmers would  pay  for  a
gradually increasing part of input costs, Government and
external co-financiers would cover the recurrent inputs for the
entire country.   Government's present budgetary situation does
not permit it to provide timely financing for the recurrent
national fertilizer/insecticide requirements, thus threatening
the implementation of agricultural development country-wide.
Given this situation parallel to a gradual elimination of
Government's subsidy rates on fertilizer and insecticides,
combined with a corresponding increase in the farmgate price
of cotton, IDA and CCCE would assist Government in financing
part  of  these  recurrent  expenditures  country-wide.    These
price adjustments would be announced annually not later than
March 31, and this would be a condition of disbursements
against recurrent input expenditures (para 8.01,a).
5.04      An IDA credit of US$20.0 million is proposed to finance 56% of
the Zou Rural Development Component cost net of taxes including incre-
mental input requirements for the Zou (US$14.8 million), and 15% of the
recurrent national fertilizer/insecticide imports (US$5.2 million) or 47%
of Government subsidies for these inputs. A condition of effectiveness of
the IDA credit would be fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the CCCE and FAC credits (para 8.02,b).
5.05      The terms and conditions of the CCCE (US$6.5 million) and FAC
(US$3.7 million) credits are yet to be negotiated. The CCCE contributions
would respectively cover about 18% of project cost net of taxes and 5% of
recurrent input imports cost.   The FAC contribution would cover 14% of
project cost net of taxes.   Total external financing of about CFAF 10.3
billion (US$30.2 million) would represent: (i) about 88% of project cost
net of taxes (80% of cost including taxes),  covering foreign exchange
(US$19.0 million) plus 62% (US$4.5 million) of local cost excluding taxes
(or 44% with taxes); and (ii) about 20% (US$7.0 million) of the recurrent
national fertilizer/insecticide imports (or 63% of the subsidy element).
5.06      Combined external funds amounting to US$30.2 million equivalent
and Government funds amounting to US$10.0 million, would be deployed as
follows:
(i)  Project:
(a)   CFAF 7,035 million (US$20.6 million) would be passed on
grant terms to CARDER-Zou to cover management of extension
services,  input  distribution,  operation  of  its  specialized
units, applied research, seed production, technical assistance
and studies;
(b) CFAF 280 million (US$0.8 million) would be passed on grant
terms to SONAPRA to cover strengthening of its truck fleet for
cotton evacuation, workshop rehabilitation, technical assistance
and studies;



- 33 -
(c) CFAF 1,450 million (US$4.3 million) would be paid in annual
tranches into a "special input account" to be created at the
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) and to be drawn from by
SONAPRA to finance imports of incremental seasonal inputs;
(d) CFAF 95 million (US$0.3 million) would be onlent to CNCA,
for medium-term credit to farmers. The onlending terms would be
over 8 years with a grace period of 2 years at 6% interest. CNCA
would lend to farmers initially at 11% and these terms would
afford CNCA a 5% spread to cover administrative costs associated
with lending activities; and
(e) CFAF 1,022 million (US$3.0 million) would be passed on to
the Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action to
cover strengthening of its DEP (para 3.22) as well as the
set-up of a technical support unit for all ginneries (para 3.23).
(ii)  Recurrent National Fertilizer/Insecticide Imports:
CFAF 3,750 million (US$11.1 million) would be paid in the above
"special input account" at the CAA (para 5.07,i,c), to be drawn
from by SONAPRA to finance imports of recurrent national seasonal
inputs.
C. Pre-financing Requirements
5.07      Government   would   prefinance   the   Zou  Rural   Development
Components and recurrent expenditures out of a revolving fund to be set up
at  CAA  for  this  purpose.   The  amounts  required would be determined
according to quarterly budgets prepared by CARDER-Zou for the Zou
component and by SONAPRA for the annual seasonal input budget; such amounts
would be included in the national  investment budget.   The fund would
amount to CFAF 520 million (US$1.5 million), equivalent to about 3 months
of project expenditures, and would be jointly financed by advances from
IDA by CFAF 290 million (US$0.85 million), from CCCE by CFAF 160 million
(US$0.47 million) and from Government by CFAF 70 million (US$0.21 million).
The amounts represent pro-rata shares of co-financiers total contributions
to the project.   Pre-financing for the recurrent national fertilizer/-
insecticide requirements would be provided by Government.  Establishment
of the revolving fund account and Government's deposit of its share would
be a condition of credit effectiveness (para 8.02,c).   For purposes of
verification of statements of expenditures against which IDA would
replenish its share of the revolving fund, Government would maintain a
separate sub-account with CAA for the US$0.85 million advanced by IDA.
D. Procurement
5.08      Works:      The  construction  of  storage  facilities,  office
buildings, staff houses and land clearing, totalling US$0.8 million would
be procured by local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to CCCE
and FAC.



- 34 -
5.09      Goods:  Vehicles, motorcycles, farm and workshop equipment, and
office and house furniture, totalling about US$4.6 million, of which the
IDA credit would finance US$2.9 million, would be grouped as far as
possible in appropriate bidding packages and procured through ICB
according to World Bank Guidelines.  Remaining vehicles and equipment,
costing about US$1.6 million, would be financed by CCCE and FAC and
procured  according  to  their  guidelines.    Seasonal  inputs,  chiefly
fertilizer and insecticides worth about US$37.9 million of which IDA would
finance US$8.4 million, would be procured by SONAPRA through ICB.  About
US$0.3 million (IDA US$0.3 million) worth of oxen and ploughs financed by
CNCA medium-term credit would be purchased from local, specialized
suppliers.
5.10      Services:  Contracts for 336 man-months of technical assistance
valued at US$9,150 per average man-month including salaries, allowances,
housing insurance, and international travel, and 50 man-months of short-
term consultants' services valued at US$11,530 per man-month with a total
value of US$3.7 million (IDA US$3.7 million) would be procured in
accordance  with  IDA  and  Government  procedures   for  international
recruitment.   Remaining  technical  assistance  and consultancy services
valued at US$2.4 million would be financed by FAC and CCCE and procured
according to their guidelines.
5.11      About US$11.7 million (IDA US$4.7 million) of project expendi-
tures, representing operating cost and local staff salaries, would be
committed   in   accordance   with   established   Government   procedures,
satisfactory to IDA, CCCE and FAC.
5.12      Contract Review:   All works and goods contracts or packages
estimated to cost over US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's
prior review of procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of about
90% for the total estimated value of works contracts and about 75% of goods
contracts. The balance of contracts would be subject to random post review
by IDA after contract award.
E. Disbursements
5.13      IDA funds (US$20.0 million), except for refunding of the PPF
advance, would be jointly disbursed with CCCE funds (US$5.5 million).
Estimated project disbursements are given in Annex 1, Table 2 and follow
the pattern established for typical West African rural development
projects.   IDA funds would be disbursed over a 5-year period and would
cover:



- 35 -
Amount of Credit            % of
Expressed in 000's       Expenditures
Category                            Dollar Equivalent           Financed
1. CARDER-Zou:
a)  Vehicles                            1,800,000                75
b)  Equipment, Furniture                  450,000               100
c) Operating Costs incl.
Local Salaries                   3,379,000                55
d)  Technical Assistance                2,250,000               100
e)  Consultants Services                  230,000                50
2. MDRAC-DEP
a)  Vehicles                              130,000               100
b)  Equipment, Furniture                   40,000               100
c)  Technical Assistance                  540,000               100
d)  Consultants' Services                 280,000               100
3.  CNCA - Credits to Farmers                 270,000               100
4. Fertilizer/Insecticide
a)  Incremental                         2,900,000                75
b)  Recurrent Imports                   4,700,000                15 -
5.  Contribution to Revolving Fund            850,000
6.  Refunding of PPF Advance                  281,000
7.  Unallocated                             1,900,000
Total                      20,000,000
1/ Represents a weighted average over the 5-year financing period on a
year by year basis as follows: PYI = 40%, PY2 = 35%, PY3 = 20%, PY4 = 12%,
PY5 = 4%. For details see Annex 1, Table 2-B.
Disbursements against vehicles, equipment, inputs, technical assistance
and consultants' services would be supported by full documentation.
Disbursement for purposes of replenishing IDA's share of the revolving
fund  (to  be  utilized  to  prefinance   project  operating  costs,  local
salaries, and CNCA credits to farmers) would be against certified
statements   of  expenditures   and   statements   of  credit  disbursed,
respectively.   Full supporting documentation, showing costs incurred by
category, would be retained for inspection by IDA during project
supervision.   Technical assistance staff, recruited under the Borgou RD
project, have already gained experience in the preparation of statement of



BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
(CFAF '000)                         (US$ '000)             % of
___________________________________________---__--_-----------------  Foreign  % of Total
Local       Foreign        Total        Local    Foreign    Total   Exchange Base Costs
A.  CARDER HQ                          479,810.4  1,339,696.3  1,819,506.7   1,411.2   3,940.3   5,351.5          73.6    25.9
B.  CARDER F. SERVICES                 383,922.5    648,318.2  1,032,240.6   1,129.2   1,906.8   3,036.0          62.8    14.7
C.  TRAINING                            86,235.8    499,398.3    585,634.1        253.6   1,468.8   1,722.5       85.3     8.3
D.  SEED PRODUCTION                    192,745.5    273,732.4    466,477.9        566.9     805.1   1,372.0       58.7     6.6
E.  LOWLAND DEVPT AND WATER SUPPLY   236,884.8        93,656.0    330,540.9       696.7     275.5      972.2      28.3     4.7
F.  SONAPRA                             23,963.7    126,253.3    150,217.1         70.5     371.3      441.8      84.0     2.1
G.  APPLIED RESEARCH
FOOD CROP                          213,944.5    205,248.9    419,193.4       629.2      603.7   1,232.9       49.0     6.0
RICE AND COTTON                     44,046.9      62,161.3    106,208.3       129.5     182.8      312.4      58.5     1.5      x
Sub-Total APPLIED RESEARCH             257,99T.4    267,410.3    525,401.7        758.8     786.5   1,545.3       50.9     7.5
H.  MONITOR AND EVALUATION              77,399.7    118,209.2    195,608.9        227.6     347.7      575.3      60.4     2.8
I.  SUPPLY OF INPUTS                    36,065.2    913,917.8    949,983.0        106.1   2,688.0   2,794.1       96.2    13.5
J.  OXEN AND IMPLEMENT                  51,300.0        -           51,300.0      150.9      -         150.9       -       0.7
K.  LIVESTOCK                           85,901.3      91,193.4    177,094.7       252.7     268.2      520.9      51.5     2.5
L.  MAINTENANCE DES USINES
D'EGRAINAGE                       88,358.1    163,948.6    252,306.7       259.9      482.2      742.1     65.0      3.6
M. DEPARTEMENT DES ETUDES ET DE
PLANIFICATION                    154,953.7    332,066.5    487,020.2       455.7      976.7   1,432.4      68.2      6.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                 2,155,532.2  4,867,800.3  7,023,332.5   6,339.8  14,317.1  20,656.9          69.3   100.0
Physical Contingencies             130,113.1    259,301.0    389,414.0       382.7      762.6   1,145.3       66.6     5.5
Price Contingencies              1,126,220.3  1,339,007.9  2,465,228.2   3,312.4   3,938.3   7,250.7         54.3    35.1
Sub-Total PROJECT COSTS              3,411,865.6  6,466,109.2  9,877,974.8  10,034.9  19,018.0  29,052.9          65.5   140.6
RECURRENT NATIONAL
FERTILIZERS /INSECTICIDE
IMPORTS                               -      11,436,000.0 11,436,000.0        -      33,640.0  33,640.0    100.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                  3,411,865.6 17,902,109.2 21,313,974.8  10,034.9  52,658.0  62,692.9          84.0   140.6
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
(US$ '000)
Total      Net of  ---- --------   PPF  ----___---  ---------- Parallel --------    Sub-total ------------- Joint ----------------------
Component                                             Project Costs  Taxes   Sub-total           IDA    Government        FAC   Government    CCCE    Pari-Passu Government              IDA          CCCE       Farmers
1. CARDER
a) Civil Work                                           160         100           -            -            -           -            -          -            100          -            -           100
b) Vehicles                                           3,600       2,750          20           20            -           -            -          -         2,730            -        2,100          630
c) Equipment Furniture                                  750         560          30          30            -            -            -          -           530            -          530           -
d) Operating Costs, Local
Salaries                                        8,390       7,605          70           70            -            -           -          -         7,535        1,960        4,640          935
e) Technical Assistance                               2,500       2,500          90           90            -           -            -          -         2,410            -        2,410           -           -
f) Consultants Services                                 500         500           -            -           -            -            -         -            500 S                     250          250          -
2. SONAPRA
a) Vehicles                                              35          25           -            -            -           -            -          -             25         -             -            25          -
b) Operating Costs                                      135         120           -            -            -           -            -          -            120         -             -           120          -
c) Technical Assistance                                 430         430           -            -            -           -            -          -           430          -             -           430          -
d) Consultants Services                                 220         220           -            -            -           -            -          -            220          -            -           220          -
3. MDRAC - DEP
a) Vehicles                                             190         140           -            -            -           -            -          -            140         -            140           -           -
b) Equipment & Furniture                                  50         40           -            -            -            -           -          -             40          -            40
c) Operating Costs                                      810         760           -            -            -           -            -          -            760        760            -
d) Technical Assistance                                 600         600           -            -            -           -            -          -            ,00         -            600
e) Consultants Services                                 310         310           -            -            -           -            -          -             10         _            310
4. Seed Production, Applied Research,
M & E Unit incl. T.A.                               4,750      4,100           70           70           -         3,700          330         -             -          -             -            -           _
5. Technical Support for Ginneries                       1,050         970           -            -            -            -           -         970            -                         -            -
6. Incremental Seasonal Inputs                           4,270       4,270           -            -            -            -            -         -         4,270           -         3,200        1,070
7. Medium-Term Credit/CNCA                                  300        300           -            -                         -           -          -            300          -            300           -
TOTAL ZOU RDP COMPONENTS                                29,050      26,300         280           280           -        3,700          330        970        21,020      2,720        14,520        3,780          -
Recurrent National Fertilizer/
Insecticide Imports                                   33,640      33,640           -            -            -           -            -          -        33,640       4,100         5,200        1,750     22,590
TOTAL PROJECT                                           62,690      59,940         280           280           -        3,700          330        970        54,660      6,820        19,720        5,530      22,590
PERCENTAGE OF FINANCING
------- ZOU RD Project --- ----    Recurrent Fertilizer/Insecticide  Imports
Total      %          Net of Tax    %             Cost      %          Subsidies       %
Government       5.85       20            3.05        12          4.10       13          4.10          37
IDA             14.80      51           14.80         56          5.20      15           5.20          47
CCCE             4.75      16            4.75         18          1.75       5           1.75          16
FAC              3.70       13           3.70         14           -          -           -             -
Farmers           -         --                          -        22.6       67            -
Total           29.10     100           26.30        100         33.64     100          11.05         100



- 38 -
expenditures.   As for CARDER-Zou, the chief accountant to be recruited
would be responsible for the preparation of statements of expenditures,
and provide necessary assistance  to CNCA.   All disbursements  against
MDRAC's expenditures for its DEP would be fully documented.
F. Financial Control, Audit and Reporting Requirements
5.14      To restructure CARDER-Zou's financial management, the technical
assistance team would include a financial controller and a chief
accountant (para 4.04). CARDER-Zou and SONAPRA would both keep records for
the project consistent with sound accounting practices and adequate to
reflect both the overall financial situation of these two executing
agencies and the detailed costs of operations of the project components
executed  or  administered  by  them.    CARDER-Zou  would  introduce  cost
accounting as of January 1983, the expected start of the project.
Preparatory arrangements to that effect would be financed in part under the
PPF.  CNCA would keep separate records for the funds earmarked for medium
term credit. MDRAC would also keep separate accounts for project related
DEP expenditures.
5.15      To maintain  control  of  the  recurrent  national  fertilizer/-
insecticide imports, a senior accountant would be recruited interna-
tionally and posted to SONAPRA (para 4.04). His primary task would consist
of ensuring the timely availability of funds to prefinance the import of
annual national fertilizer/insecticide requirements as well as keeping
records of the various sources of financing towards this program. He would
also ensure that the CARDER-Zou input supply officers at Borgou, Zou and
Atacora projects would carefully assess the projects' annual inputs needs
and provide the information to SONAPRA in time.   Finally, he would be
responsible for keeping records of SONAPRA's national input supply
account.
5.16      CARDER-Zou's, SONAPRA's and CNCA's accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and their reports would be
submitted  to IDA for review within six months after the close of the
financial year.   The auditors report would include,  in particular,  an
opinion on the documentation supporting the statements of expenditures and
credit disbursements against which withdrawal applications were to be, or
had been made.  MDRAC's accounts for project related expenditures for its
DEP would be subjected to normal Government audits and Annual Audit Reports
would be submitted to IDA within four months after the close of the
financial year.
5.17      CARDER-Zou, SONAPRA (consolidated with the report on the Borgou
RD project report) and CNCA (from PY3 onwards) would submit quarterly
progress reports to Government and the co-financers showing actual as
against budgeted expenditures and statements of progress achieved. These
quarterly reports would contain summary financial information indicating
the levels of CARDER's and SONAPRA's borrowings and of any outstanding
receivables from Government or other bodies with respect to budgetary
allocations for the project and subsidies for production inputs.
Assurances on regular reporting would be obtained during negotiations
(para 8.01,e).



- 39 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
6.01      Production
The improved extension and credit programs proposed under the
project have the potential of progressively raising yields and increasing
the number of farmers using improved production techniques (paras 3.25 -
3.27).  On the assumption that relative producer prices, input costs and
weather conditions favored the adoption of the new techniques, production
by the 38,000 farmers in the target group of all major cash and food crops
in the project area is expected to increase as follows:
Summary of Production Increases
PYO                  PY5        Increase
(000t)                (000t)        (%
Seed Cotton               5.1                 10.8          112
Lint Equivalent           2.0                  4.2           110
Maize                    46.2                 51.4            11
Groundnut                28.3                 32.4            15
Cowpeas                  10.2                 13.5           32
Rice                       .6                  1.1           83
Tobacco                    .2                    .4         100
It is also estimated that as a result of livestock and animal health
interventions, about 200 t of incremental meat production would be
generated.
6.02      Cotton Market Prospects
World market conditions for cotton lint, the major export crop
produced under the project, are projected by the Bank to give moderately
rising real prices, and adequate demand.   Forecasts of world per capita
income and population growth indicate a growth in demand for apparel-type
fibers of about 3.2% per annum to 1990. Although world cotton production
is foreseen as growing at 1.6% per year, the rising costs of petroleum
inputs for synthetic fiber manufacturing have restrained new investment in
man-made fiber-market. Long-term equilibrium prices are expected to rise
gradually from the 1983 (PYI) level of 185/kg (in 1981 constant terms for
Mexican Strict Middling, 1 1/16", CIF Europe) to 2000/kg in 1985 (PY3) and
202/kg in 1990 (PY8). This represents an expected rate of price increase
rel2ive to 1983 of 4% per annum during 1983-85 and almost 1% during 1985-
90 - .
1/ Cotton Market Prospects: IBRD April 1981.



- 40 -
6.03      Food Crop Market Prospects
The demand for food crops in Benin is expected to increase in the
future due to the rise in domestic consumption and export demand from
neighboring countries.   With population growth rate of 2.7% and the per
capita growth of about 5%, the prospects of marketing food crops produced
under the project such as maize, groundnuts, beans and rice are favorable
and the demand is likely to remain strong over the foreseeable future.
Markets iy,Nigeria and Niger have been absorbing Beninese food crops such
as maize - , groundnuts and to a lesser degree sorghum and root crops and
are expected  to continue to do so.   Marketing channels of food crops
are satisfactory throughout Benin's provinces.   Traders are personally
appearing in villages and local markets, buying up to 80% of local maize
stocks, 50% of groundnuts and 70% of beans.  Small quantities of root crops
such as cassava and yam are marketed in the processed form as gari and
flour. The Zou province is producing exportable quantities of food stuffs
and with the project, the surplus would grow at about 14% per year which is
higher than the annual growth in domestic demand of 8%.   Due to well-
established food crop marketing channels increased production under the
project is not expected to encounter major problems in finding ready
markets.
6.04      Financial and Economic Prices of Benin Cotton
Benin cotton lint is generally sold at a 15% discounted price on
the world market due to its lower quality and small volume.   With the
deduction of the costs of transportation and insurance from Cotonou to
Europe, the FOB value of Benin cotton lint is estimated to rise from
US$1,408 (CFAF 478,720) per ton in PY1 to US$1,536 (CFAF 522,240) per ton
in PY3 and to US$1,596 (CFAF 542,640) per ton in PY8. Under the present
structure of costs and taxes in Benin's domestic cotton marketing system,
(Annex 1, Table 6), excluding the levy on cotton taken to support low
producer prices for production inputs, and producer cotton prices of CFAF
80/kg, these FOB price movements indicate (a) a growth in the financial
margin of the sector from CFAF 55/kg of seed cotton in PYI to CFAF 75/kg in
PY3 and CFAF 84/kg in PY8 in 1981 constant terms; and (b) a growth in the
farmgate economic value of seed cotton from CFAF 138/kg in PY1 to CFAF
157/kg in PY3 and CFAF 167/kg in PY8.  These indicate that world cotton
price movements would allow Government to pay higher producer prices and
reduce  subsidies  on  inputs.   Changes  in producer  prices  to maintain
cotton's competitive position with food crops and reduce the crop's
dependency on Government support were a condition for credit effectiveness
under the Borgou Rural Development Project.   Following this commitment,
Government is now actively engaged in setting the mechanism for changing
cotton producer prices, and as a first step the price for the 1982 season
was increased from CFAF 60 to CFAF 80 per kg of seed cotton.   Further
price adjustments are expected to be made in line with increases of input
costs to farmers (para 6.10).
1/ Estimate 150,000 tons in 1975.



- 41 -
6.05      Economic Price of Food Crops and Tobacco
The current world market prices of the major food crops produced
under the proposed project -- maize, groundnut, and rice -- are projected
to increase by approximately 10% annually.   In real  terms,  maize and
groundnut are expected to rise at 2% per annum until the end of the decade.
For the purpose of the project, maize is considered an internationally
traded crop in the sense that a border trade takes place between Benin and
neighboring countries. Taking Nigerian border prices recently considered
representative of the trade, of CFAF 124/kg for maize in PY1 as surrogate
FOB prices, world price movements would be expected to give border prices
of CFAF 129/kg in PY3 and CFAF 142/kg in PY8. These price movements would
indicate farmgate price movement in constant terms from CFAF 115/kg in PY1
to CFAF 119/kg in PY3 and to CFAF 131/kg in PY8, assuming that the
current average estimated cost of marketing from producers to export points
increased by the estimated rate of petroleum price rise at 3% per annum
in constant terms.
6.06      In the case of rice, Benin is a net importer so that the movement in
world prices sets the value of domestic production. Accounting for trans-
portation and insurance and quality discount, CIF prices (in 1981 terms) of
CFAF 105,700/ton in PYI, CFAF 127,200/ton in PY3 and CFAF 127,200/ton in
PY8 are projected based on World Bank estimates. On this basis, farmgate
economic and financial prices of CFAF 74/kg of paddy in PYI, CFAF 87/kg of
paddy in PY3 and 87/kg of paddy in PY8 are expected, given domestic
transport and milling cost, in 1981 terms.
6.07      Tobacco is exported from Benin.  With a rise in price in interna-
tional  markets,  tobacco  has  become  more  attractive.    Tobacco  from
Benin is sold in the world market at about 25% below indicative world
market prices due  to its  low quality.   After deducting  the cost of
transportation and insurance, the FOB value of Benin tobacco is
estimated to be CFAF 403/kg in PYI, CFAF 425/kg in PY3 and CFAF 435/kg in
PY8 in 1981 constant terms.   Deducting the cost of transportation and
handling from the farm to Cotonou port, the economic prices of tobacco are
CFAF 291/kg in PYI, CFAF 309/kg in PY3 and CFAF 316/kg in PY8 respectively.
6.08      Groundnuts (shelled) have traditionally been exported officially
but have declined significantly in recent years because of low official
prices.    Border  trade  has  continued,  however,  particularly  from Zou
province which has been the largest producer in the country. World price
projections indicate Beninese FOB prices of CFAF 98/kg in PY1, CFAF 144/kg
in PY3 and increase to CFAF 151/kg in PY8 in 1981 terms. Given the current
cost structure of groundnut marketing, as described in the project file,
the economic farmgate prices are CFAF 47/kg, 77/kg and 82/kg for unshelled
groundnut for PY1, PY3 and PY8 respectively. Cowpeas are mostly consumed
within the country; thus, local market price of CFAF 110/kg is used in
the economic analysis.
6.09      Input and Product Price Policy
Benin imports all fertilizer and agricutural chemicals.  Based
on the World Bank projections, the CIF value of urea, super triplephosphate



- 42 -
and cotton fertilizer is expected to increase by about 4% per year between
1983-85 and 1% per year over 1985-90 in constant 1981 terms.  CIF prices
for insecticides are expected to rise by about 3% per year throughout 1983-
90 in 1981  terms,  following  trends in world  petroleum markets.   The
following summary shows the estimated financial costs of these inputs,
assuming distribution costs of CFAF 9/kg and CFAF 18/litre from Cotonou to
the Zou districts:
Summary of Input Price
(CFAF, 1981 Terms)
PYl         PY3          PY8
Fertilizer, CIF/kg
Cotton Fertilizer                   122          132          139
Urea                                  94          102          107
TSP                                 103          111           117
Insecticides, CIF/Litre                1,600        1,697        1,969
Fertilizer, at Farm/Kg
Cotton Fertilizer                    131         141           134
Urea                                 103          113         ill
TSP                                  112          120          126
insecticide at Farm/Litre              1,618        1,715        1,987
For agricultural equipment, including sprayers and animal traction
equipment, 1981 prices, net of estimated taxes are taken to represent the
respective farm level economic values.
6.10      Fertilizer  and  insecticide  prices  are  fixed  annually  by
Government decree. These inputs have recently been sold to farmers at CFAF
25/kg and CFAF 300/1, which is only 22% and 19% of their real cost
delivered to the farm. Government has financed about 90% of its contri-
bution,i.e. CFAF 106/kg and CFAF 1318/litre,by taking a direct, fixed levy
per kilo of cotton marketed as a charge included in the cotton bareme. In
line with agreements made under the Borgou Province Rural Development
Project to reduce subsidies, Government raised fertilizer prices from CFAF
25/kg to CFAF 45/kg and insecticides from CFAF 300 to CFAF 560/litre for
1982/83. However, even at reduced rates of subsidy, Government is expected
to have increasing difficulties in meeting the recurrent cost of inputs, if
the overall use of inputs stimulated through the Borgou, Zou and other
rural  development  projects   proceeds  as  expected.          Indeed,   such
difficulties have already arisen in financing the increased inputs
required to meet the production objectives of the Borgou Province Rural



- 43 -
Development Project. Government's lack of funds have delayed procurement
of necessary supplies in the past, and only resorting to special ad hoc
arrangements which could not be repeated, resolved Government's financing
crisis. If sufficient fertilizer and insecticide were imported to meet the
economically justified levels of production as foreseen in the rural
development currently being appraised or executed, Government would be
committed, under the reduced subsidy rates negotiated under the Borgou
Province Rural Development Project, to about US$26 million over the period
1983-87, with recurrent costs thereafter of about US$9 million per year.
This is clearly beyond Government's means and recognizing this, Government
is progressing to reduce subsidies faster than originally agreed.
Government has decided, therefore, to gradually reduce subsidies with
the object of eliminating them over a six-year period. This would have the
effect of changing input costs as shown in the following indicative
schedule (based on projected CIF prices as in para 6.09, brought to current
terms assuming domestic price increase of 12% p.a.). To compensate cotton
farmers for these input price increases on the assumption that net revenue
from cotton should remain roughly the same in real terms, seed cotton
prices would also evolve as in the following schedule. In real terms the
indicative seed cotton prices shown are well below the residual economic
farmgate value of seed cotton as projected (para 6.04), so that paying
these increased prices would be economically feasible. Prices of food crops
are not controlled by Government, but sufficient real growth is expected in
these prices and in productivity to induce increased production even with
rising input costs. Under this scheme, the total subsidy burden would be
US$11.1 million for 1983-1987 with an additional US$1.1 million in 1988.
pyl       PY2        PY3        PY4        PY5
(CFAF Current Terms)
Fertilizer:
-  Cost per kg                             147        171        198       224        254
-  Percentage Gov't. Subsidy                60         50         40         30        20
-  Government Subsidy                       88         86         79         67        51
-  Price to Farmer                          59         85        119       157        203
Insecticide:
-  Cost/litre                            2,034      2,090     2,410      2,774      3,232
-  Percentage Gov't. Subsidy                60         50         40        30         20
-  Government Subsidy                    1,220      1,045        964       832        646
-  Price to Farmer                         814      1,045     1,446      1,942      2,586
Minimum Incentive Producer Price/kg
Seed Cotton                                 95        112        122        140       170
6.11      The  adjustment  process  facing Government  as  it reduces  the
burden of recurrent input costs and promotes the production of cotton and
food crops to economically justified levels would be complex and would



- 44 -
require a gradual approach and the support of external financiers. During
the adjustment period, specific project-related measures would be
undertaken to help in making the adjustments, notably the provision of
technical assistance in critical areas of financial and technical
management of the cotton subsector and material and operational support
to key institutions. For its part, Government would implement the results
of a study of the cotton sector leading to the establishment of a cotton
sector account.   Agreement between IDA and Government on the terms of
reference for the study would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(para 8.02,f).   To permit  sufficient  time  for  reforms  to be  imple-
mented, external financiers would finance a decreasing share of the
recurrent costs of imported inputs over a five-year period.   Government
agreed at negotiations that:
(a) all incremental and non-incremental inputs would be procured
through ICB, as was initiated under the Borgou Province Rural
Development Project;
(b) a precise timetable for gradual increases in input unit prices
would be followed, with prices being announced each year about
one month before the start of the planting season in April, so as
to achieve the goal of eliminating subsidies in six years; and
(c) Government would monitor the impact of the changes on input use
and production growth to detect  early, potential, undesirable
trends.
6.12      Producer's Financial Returns
Two farm models have been used to illustrate the project's
impact, one representative of south Zou with 1.8 ha physical area and 2.7
ha cultivated over the two rainy seasons (para 2.01); the other of north
Zou with 2.7 ha land and 3.4 ha of annually cultivated area.  In the first
model, cereals represent 40% of cultivated area, legumes 40%, tubers 10%
and cotton 10%.   In the second model  the same  crop groups have  the
distribution of 35%, 23%,  27%, and 15%, respectively.   Differences in
cropping are small and are mainly due to slightly differing ecological
conditions and eating habits.   For these typical farms, net cash income
received after deducting for cost of production such as seed, fertilizer,
insecticide and crop loss, interest on short-term credit, family food
consumption and Government head tax (details in Annex 1, Table 5) with and
without project are summarized below.   The results show that there is a
financial incentive for farmers to participate, because they would
experience high rates of financial return on investments, without reducing
consumption in early years of participation. At PY5 the net income of a
typical farm resulting from the project would increase 12-fold (south Zou)
and 2-fold (north Zou) over the net income without the project as shown in
the following summary.   In the south, the increase is much higher mainly
due to the fact that in the without project situation, an average family
actually  consumes  over  80%  of  all  food  crops  produced.    Project's
intervention would also allow the south Zou farmer to market a greater
share of his production.



- 45 -
Summary of Changes in Farmers' Financial Returns
(1981 Constant Prices)
South Zou                  North Zou
Year in Project                          5th                        5th
CFAF        $              CFAF        $
Net Cash Income with Project        114,520   337              189,393   557
Net Cash Income without Project    8,765    26                  82,901   244
Increment                          105,755   311              106,492   313
6.13      Government's Cash Flow
An analysis of Government's cash flow resulting from the project
is given at Annex 1, Table 3, based on the following assumptions:
(i) project expenditures include those for the five-year investment
period, and incremental recurrent costs of maintaining services
at levels obtained by PY5;
(ii)  Government  recovers   taxes  from  project  expenditures  and
recurrent  cost  expenditures,  and  obtains  external  financing
following conditions of the IDA and CCCE credits and the FAC
grant (para 5.06);
(iii) subsidies on incremental project fertilizer and insecticide
decline to 0% by PY7 and remain at these levels (para 6.10);
(iv) producer prices for the incremental production of seed cotton
are increased at an annual rate of 2.5% in real terms; and
(v) on account of cost associated with the national fertilizer
insecticide import program revenues include the national non-
incremental cotton marketing surplus for the Borgou, Zou, Mono
and Oueme provinces.
Given these assumptions, Government's net cash flow would show positive
balances from PY3 onwards up to PY15 when the cumulative cash flow
would have reached about CFAF 9.1 billion (US$26.7 million). This would be
made possible by projected increases in real terms of the world cotton
prices and improved domestic efficiency particularly in the marketing
sector (para 4.09).
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFIT, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      Project Benefits and Their Distribution
The project's major quantifiable benefit would be from the
incremental production of cotton, food crops and livestock products in the
Zou province.   By PY5,  annual  seed  cotton production  is expected  to



- 46 -
increase by about 5,700 tons (2,200 tons lint) with annual FOB values of
CFAF 1.2 billion (US$3.4 million) in 1981 terms.  The economic farmgate
value of seed cotton would be CFAF 0.9 billion (US$2.7 million) in PY5
valued at projected economic prices in 1981 terms.
7.02      Food crop production is expected to increase significantly (para
3.02) augmenting farm family nutrition and providing additional cash
income for project beneficiaries.   With projected increase in farmgate
values of maize, rice, tobacco, groundnut and beans, the value of this
production would increase by CFAF 1,425 million (US$4.2 million) per year
by PY5. Livestock production is also expected to increase at the level of
200 tons liveweight in PY5. This will increase the farm family protein as
well as family income. The value of livestock production would be at CFAF
300 million (US$0.9 million) in PY5.
7.03      Among the non-quantifiable benefits, the proposed project would
strengthen Government's capacity to manage and plan further rural
development activity in the Zou province and to improve its financial
management. Future benefits would also accrue from cash crop and food crop
research, food crop seed production and improved cultivation practices.
Moreover, the project's water development would both reduce health risks
and time spent in water hauling. The project's transformation equipments
would also reduce time spent in agricultural processing.
7.04      At  full development  (PY5)  some 38,000  farm families,  repre-
senting 48% of the total number of the province, would have been reached by
the project. The project would reach families with total imputed incomes
of about CFAF 204,000 or CFAF 27,200 per capita (US$80) per year, which
would imply that most of these members are in the absolute poverty group in
the country.
7.05      Economic Analysis, Analytical Assumptions and Economic Rate of
Return (ERR)
In calculating the project's economic rate of return, only the
project's directly quantifiable, incremental benefits have been taken into
account.   All project costs except those of the SONAPRA marketing, and
research components, together with technical assistance associated with
these components, have been included.   Costs are net of tax but include
physical contingencies. Costs and benefits have been computed over twenty
years in constant 1981 prices. It has been assumed that project activities
are maintained at PY5 level from PY6 onwards. Incremental crop output has
been valued at farmgate prices estimated using world market prices (border
prices) as a basis for cotton, maize, groundnut, rice and tobacco (paras
6.04-6.08). The incremental farm labor requirements have been included as
an economic cost and are valued at CFAF 450/man-day.   This is the rate
which the farmers earn in the existing agriculture and is assumed to be the
overall average opportunity cost of labor. The resultant cost and benefit
streams are presented in the Project File. Under these assumptions, the
project has an economic rate of return (ERR) of 22%.
The economic rate of return for the Recurrent National Ferti-
lizer/Insecticide Imports program has not been calculated as the benefits
cannot  be  directly  quantified.    However,  this  program will  increase



- 47 -
national crop production and thus the income of the farmers and the
Government's revenue.
7.06       Sensitivity
Costs and Benefits:   The project's economic viability is very
sensitive to variations in costs or benefits, due mainly to the relative
large value of annual inputs - fertilizer and insecticides - after the
investment period. A 20% rise in benefits would raise the ERR to over 40%
while a 10% rise in costs would reduce ERR to 10.1%, which is somewhat
below the opportunity cost of capital, 12%. Alternatively, the sensiti-
vity analysis of the ERR to change in costs or benefits, expressed in terms
of switching values at the estimated cost of capital (12%), shows that a
short fall of benefits of 7.8% and a rise of costs of 8.4% would reduce the
ERR to 12%. The ERR is also sensitive to lags in realization of benefits
but less sensitive to changes in major variables affecting the project such
as price of cotton, cost of labor, cost of fertilizer, variations in
capital cost and operating cost. These are summarized below.
Summary of Economic Analysis
Switching Values @12%
ERR%       % Change Cost  % Change Benefits
1.  Point Estimate                               22         + 8.4            - 7.9
2. Variation in price of cotton
Price of cotton increase by 15%              27.9       +14.5            -12.7
Price of cotton decrease by 15%              14.8       + 2.3            - 2.3
3. Variation in shadow wage rate
Shadow wage rate reduce by 22%               28.8       +16.5            -14.1
Shadow wage rate increase by 22%             13.8       + 1.4            - 1.4
4. Variation in cost of input
Cost of fertilizer increase by 10%           17.7       + 4.3            - 4.1
Cost of fertilizer increase by 15%           15.9       + 2.4            - 2.3
5. Variation in project costs
Capital cost increase by 10%                 20.2       + 7.3            - 6.8
Capital cost increase by 15%                 19.5       + 6.7            - 6.3
Operating cost increase by 10%               19.3       + 6.4            - 6.0
Operating cost increase by 15%               18.1       + 6.0            - 5.8
6. Participation Rate
At 85% of Expected Rate                      19         + 6.4            - 6.0
At 75% of Expected Rate                      17         + 4.7            - 4.5
Participation at 85% of Expected Rate
and Delayed by One Year                     7           -                -



- 48 -
Participation:   The project's viability is also sensitive to
variations in the level of participation by farmers in the project.
Assuming that all benefits and variable costs associated with the crop
improvement program would vary in the same proportion as participation,
and that all other fixed costs such as project management, institution
strengthening and training did not vary with participation level,
participation of 85% of the project's target farmers would result in an ERR
of 19%. A 75% participation rate would yield an ERR of only 17%. Under the
combined assumption of 85% participation rate and a one year lag in benefit
stream, the ERR falls to 7%.
7.07      Risks
There are no major technological risks in the project.
Proposals  for  extension,  seed  multiplication,  credit  administration,
cotton evacuation and processing have been proven in other west African
situations and are capable of initiating a recovery in production (Annex 1,
Table 4). Applied research in cotton and food crops, and bottomland rice
development is straightforward, and although the timeliness of useful
results may be uncertain, this risk is not expected to jeopardize overall
project  success.    The  principal  risk  is  that  poor  organization  and
financial management may lead to under performance.
7.08      A risk to project success exists if the restructuring of the
CARDER-Zou, and particularly its district level operations, is not
accomplished within the time or following the pattern foreseen. Hitherto,
inappropriate appointments, lack of experience, and rapid turnovers have
reduced the consolidation of experience which would be necessary for
project success. Assurances would be sought during negotiations that key
project posts would at all times be filled with persons of experience and
qualifications acceptable to IDA (para 8.01,b).  Moreover, technical and
organizational training programs would be provided for all staff.
Finally, in this regard, a study would be undertaken early in the project
to identify possible alternative ways of organizing and running field
services.
7.09      In the present situation in Benin it will be critical that a
strong technical assistance team work in both line as well as in advisory
posts. Contrary to past experience, Government has indicated its willing-
ness to secure the technical assistance necessary to assure project
success and IDA has been closely involved with Government in the
preparation of terms of reference for these specialists (available in the
Project File).   IDA would also scrutinize with Government the qualifi-
cations of the candidates before they are actually recruited and would
closely supervise their performance during project execution.
7.10      The  most  significant  risk  lies  in  the  area  of  financial
management. Government would be asked at negotiation to agree to nullify
the debts incurred by CARDER-Zou (about CFAF 50 million, or US$170,000) so
that the project would begin without accumulated debits (para 8.01,a).
Government has also accepted to appoint a strong technical assistance team
in financial control, accountancy and credit management (para 4.04).



- 49 -
7.11      Moreover, more fundamental changes would be gradually introduced
to ensure the financial equilibrium of the agriculture sector in general
and the cotton sector in particular. This has begun in the context of the
Borgou Province Rural Development Project, which included provision for
strengthening SONAPRA's (SONAGRI's) financial management which would
support Government's efforts to reflect in the cotton bareme the real cost
of cotton production, transformation and marketing. These efforts would
be extended under the present project to include provision of a financial
expertise in the management of CARDER's and SONAPRA's combined actions
(para. 8.01,a). To assure that Benin receives the most revenue possible
for its cotton, a study would be funded examining ways in which Benin could
improve export marketing of cotton.   Finally,  resources would be made
available to Government to support its efforts to restructure cotton price
and input cost policies.
VIII. ASSURANCES AND CONDITIONS
8.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a)  reforms  in  financial  arrangements  in  the  cotton  subsector
started under the Borgou Province Rural Development Project
would be continued. Notably:
(i)   cotton producer prices and input prices to farmers would
be annually adjusted so as to lead to complete elimination
of subsidies over a period of six years. These input price
adjustments would be accompanied by a corresponding staged
increase in producer prices for seed cotton up to levels
justified  by  world  market  conditions.         The  price
adjustments would be announced annually by March 31, and
this would be a condition for disbursements against input
expenditures (para 5.03);
(ii) the cotton bareme would be annually updated with latest
cost-accounting figures from CARDERs and SONAPRA (para
7.11);
(iii) interest charges would be maintained on short and medium
term credit to farmers, amounting initially to 11% (para
4.10) but they would be reviewed periodically and set
according  to  criteria  acceptable   to  IDA  and  the
Government; and
(iv) debts of CARDER-Zou would be cancelled so that the project
would start with clean accounts (para 7.10);
(b)  the  following key posts would be  filled at all  times with
personnel with qualifications and experience judged satisfactory
to IDA: Project Manager, Deputy Project Manager (administration
and finance), Deputy Project Manager (technical), Financial
Controller, Chief Accountant (CARDER), Input Supply and Credit



- 50 -
Specialist, Training Specialist, Workshop Manager, Senior
Accountant (SONAPRA), Agroeconomist specialized in project
monitoring and evaluation, Seed Production Specialist, Foodcrop
Research Specialist, two Agroeconomists specialized in sector
planning and project analysis, and a Ginnery Specialist (paras
4.01 and 4.04);
(c) annual work programs and budgets (including those for agricul-
tural research) would be submitted to IDA for comments by
December 31 of each preceeding project year (para 4.03);
(d) a detailed work program of the Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit would be worked out within six months after the arrival of
the Agroeconomist specialized in monitoring and evaluation, but
in any case not later than by September 30, 1983 (para 3.20);
(e) comprehensive quarterly and annual reports would be worked out
and submitted to IDA for comments, the former on a regular
quarterly basis, the latter by February 28 for each preceeding
project year (para 4.03);
(f) project management would work out details of a bonus system
rewarding good performance of CARDER's extension personnel and
submit it for IDA review and comments by June 30, 1983 (para
4.03);
(g) salaries of the CARDER-Zou would be increased to the level of
state enterprises by December 31, 1983 at the latest (para
4.03); and
(h) charges for improved seed would be instituted, sufficient to
cover variable costs of production, by January 1, 1986 at the
latest (para 3.15).
8.02      Special conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a) the preparation and submission to IDA, for comments, of a first
annual work program for the season 1983 (para 4.03);
(b) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the CCCE and FAC financing (para 5.04);
(c) the opening by Government of a revolving fund account at a Bank
acceptable to IDA with an initial deposit of CFAF 70 million
($0.2 million), (para 5.07);
(d) approval by the Borrower of SONAPRA's statutes, satisfactory to
IDA (para 1.18);
(e)  presentation of SONAPRA's organigram and opening balance sheet
satisfactory to IDA (para 1.18); and
(f) presentation of satisfactory terms of reference of a cotton
sector study (para 1.18, 3.21).



- 51 -
8.03      Under these assurances and conditions, the project is suitable
for an IDA credit of US$20.0 million.



BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Components by Time
(CFAF '000)
Base Costs                                             Total
0          1            2            3            4            5            CFAF    (U.S.$ '000)
A. CARDER H.Q.                   37,489.1   413,409.0   398,088.8   346,622.4   319,357.9   304,539.5  1,819,506.7   5,351.5
B. CARDER F. SERVICES             1,259.3   243,632.8   204,034.2   138,971.9   250,079.3   194,263.1  1,032,240.6   3,036.0
C. TRAINING COMPONENT            15,176.9   163,120.5   103,374.4   112,818.9   102,382.1    88,761.4    585,634.1   1,722.5
D. SEED PRODUCTION                  -        253,969.8    60,499.9    60,499.9    58,786.9    32,721.2    466,477.9   1,372.0
E. LOWLAND DEVT. AND WATER
SUPPLY                         -        89,630.0    64,736.7    56,192.8    60,445.3    59,536.1    330,540.9           972.2
F. SONAPRA                          -         36,817.8    32,484.0    35,561.7    39,895.6         5,458.0    150,217.1       441.8
G. APPLIED RESEARCH
FOOD CROP                     18,544.8   128,916.8    92,580.3    61,858.0    75,814.5    41,479.0    419,193.4   1,232.9
RICE AND COTTON                  -         42,894.1    16,902.8       9,809.8    12,046.1    24,555.5    106,208.3         312.4
Sub-Total APPLIED RESEARCH       18,544.8   171,810.9   109,483.1    71,667.8    87,860.6    66,034.5    525,401.7   1,545.3
H. MONITOR. AND EVALUATION          -         65,416.0    45,927.4    45,927.4    23,137.1    15,201.0    195,608.9           575.3
I. SUPPLY OF INPUTS              14,623.1   284,722.0   128,521.5   133,479.8   184,689.3   203,947.2    949,983.0   2,794.1
J. OXEN AND IMPLEMENT.              -            -            -          8,550.0    17,100.0    25,650.0        51,300.0      150.9
K. LIVESTOCK                        -         55,921.7    23,736.2    25,231.7    44,106.8    28,098.2    177,094.7           520.9
L. MAINTENANCE DES USINE
D'ECRAINAGE                    -         72,086.5    52,409.0    52,409.0    60,086.1    15,316.0    252,306.7           742.1
M. DEPARTMENT DES ETUDES ET
DE PLANIFICATION             4,800.0   169,203.4   127,071.8    82,462.3    72,650.0    30,832.7    487,020.2   1,432.4
Total BASELINE COSTS             91,893.1 2,019,740.4 1,350,367.1 1,170,395.7 1,320,577.0 1,070,359.2  7,023,332.5  20,656.9
Physical Contingencies         3,982.1   104,684.1    66,815.6    60,761.5    78,328.4    74,842.3    389,414.0   1,145.3
Price Contingencies            7,846.8   382,372.4   363,342.3   427,236.6   634,503.7   649,926.4  2,465,228.2   7,250.7
Sub-Total PROJECT COSTS         103,722.1 2,506,797.0 1,780,525.0 1,658,393.8 2,033,409.1 1,795,127.9  9,877,974.8  29,052.9
Taxes                         15,172.9   324,308.1   166,078.4    93,500.9   185,257.8   149,899.3    934,217.4   2,747.7
Foreign Exchange              70,179.8 1,744,299.9 1,202,953.2 1,116,733.6 1,294,851.5 1,037,091.2  6,466,109.2  19,018.0
RECURRENT NATIONAL
FERTILIZER/INSECTICIDE
IMPORTS                          -       598,000.0 1,482,000.0 2,352,000.0 3,127,000.0 3,877,000.0 11,436,030.0  33,600.0
Total PROJECT COSTS             103,722.1 3,104,797.0 3,262,525.0 4,010,393.8 5,160,409.1 5,672,127.9 21,313,974.8  62,652.9
cr'Z
=========    ===========    ===========    ===========    ===========    ===========  ===========  ========~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(



BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ '000)
1/                     Cumulative        Disbursements        Undisbursed        Project Year
IDA Fiscal Year and Semester       Disbursements    Disbursements           Profile            Amount           and Semester
FY 83               I              -                   _                                   20,000            PY1      I
II         1,450                1,450                  -               18,550                    II
FY 84               I           1,200               2,650                   76             17,350            PY2      I
II         1,200                3,850                 645             16,150                     II
FY 85               I           1,500               5,350                1,750             14,650            PY3      I
II         1,400                6,750               3,300              13,250                    II
FY 86               I           1,750               8,500                5,200             11,500            PY4      I
II         2,000               10,500               7,200               9,500                    II
FY 87               I           2,150              12,650                9,300              7,350            PY5      I
II         2,100               14,750              11,500               5,250                    II
FY 88               I           2,000              16,750               13,400              3,250            PY6      I
II         1,800               18,550              15,200               1,450                     II
FY 89               I             750              19,300               16,600                700            PY7      I
II           700               20,000              18,450                  -                     II
FY 90               I              -                   -                20,000                               PY8      I
II                                                                                               II
1/ Fiscal Year:  July 1 - June 30.
Closing Date: December 31, 1989.
Project Completion: June 30, 1989.
>F f



BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RECURRENT NATIONAL FERTILIZER/INSECTICIDES IMPORTS
Project Year                                                PY1                 PY2              PY3                PY4               PY5             TOTAL                %               In US$
Calendar Year                                              1983                1984             1985               1986              1987                                                   '000
In FCFA Million                                             598                1,482            2,352              3,127            3,877            11,436               100
In us$ '000 I/                                        1,760                4,360             6,920             9,200            11,400                                                33,640
Subsidy - %                                               60                   50               40                 30               20                33
- Amount                                        359                  741              941                938               775            3,754                33
In US$ '000                                           1,060                2,180             2,770              2,760            2,280            11,050                              11,050
Financed by:
A) Government - 7,                                            5                   10                35                45                70                37
- Amount                                      19                   71              326                423              551             1,390                13
In US$ '000                                               60                 210               960              1,250            1,620             4,100
B) CCCE        -7%                                           25                   20                15                15                10               16
- Amount                                      90                  150              140                140               80               600                 5
in uS$ '000                                              260                 440               410                410              230             1,750
C) IDA         -7%                                           70                   70               50                 40                20               47
- Amount                                     250                 520               475                375              144             1,764                15
In us$ '000                                              740               1,530             1,400              1,100              430             5,200
TOTAL CFAF Million                                          359                  741              941                938               775            3,754
In US$ '000                                           1,060                2,180             2,770              2,760            2,280            11,050
FARMERS (non subsidizee part)                               239                  741            1,411              2,352            3,102             7,682                67
In US$ '000                                             700                2,180             4,150             6,440             9,120            22,590
Government/Farmers                                    (     760                2,390            5,110              7,690            10,740           26,690                79
Co-financiers                         US$ 'OOO        (   1,000                1,970            1,810              1,510               660            6,950                21
1/ In accordance with Ministerial Decision dated August 25, 1982.
(1X



BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GOVERNMENT CASH FLOW 1/
(in millions CFAF)
PYO       PYl      PY2         PY3       PY4       PY5     PY6        PY7        PY8      PY9      PYlO    PYll        PY12      PY13      PY14      PY15
I. INFLOW
Project - Taxes on Project Cost                          15       324       166         94       185       150      143        143        143      143       143      143        143       143       143       143
- Spread on MT-Credit                            -         -        13         17         9       (19)      18         12          2        -         -        -          -         -         -         -
National Cotton Marketing Surplus                         -         -    1,058       1,295    1,738    1,866   1,704         1,704      1,704   1,704      1,704   1,704       1,704    1,704    1,704    1,704
TOTAL INFLOW                                             15       324    1,237       1,406    1,932    1,997   1,865         1,859      1,849   1,847    1,847   1,847         1,847    1,847    1,847    1,847
II. OUTFLOW
Project Costs - CARDER                                   70    1,287    1,061          779    1,229    1,050        840        840        840      840       840      840        840       840       840       840
- SONAPRA                                  -        55       59          68       89          9      15          15         15      15         15      15         15         15        15        15
- MDRAC/DEP                                -       209       168        119       112        58      49          50         50      50        50       50         50        50         50       50
- CNCA                                     -         -         -         14       30        51        -           -          -       -          -       -           -         -         -         -
Seed Production, Applied Res. M & E Unit                 26       609       287        257       266       196      210        210        210      210       210      210        210       210       210       210
Technical Support for Ginneries                           -        91        70         75        96        25       22         22         22       22        22       22         22        22        22        22
Subsidies on Inputs 3/                                    -       509       795        998       997       825      412          -          -        -         -        -          -         -         -         -
Advance Financing 2/                                      -        70         -          -         -              -         -               -        -         -        -          -         -         -
TOTAL OUTFLOW                                            96    2,830    2,440        2,310    2,891    2,214   1,548         1,137      1,137   1,137    1,137   1,137         1,137    1,137    1,137    1,137
III.NET CASH FLOW                                           (81)  (2,506)  (1,203)        (904)    (949)    (217)    317           722        712      710       710      710        710       710       710       710
IV.EXTERNAL FINANCING
IDA - Credit                                             95       400       820        975    1,275    1,444   1,300           491          -        -         -        -          -         -         -         -
CCCE - Credit                                             -       130       240        310       350       440      440        300
FAC - Grant                                               -        75       140        180       200       250      250        165
Less Debt Service                                     -         3        14         22        38        51      67         80          84      84        272     270        266        264      260       258
NET EXTERNAL FINANCING (DEBT SERVICE)                    95       602    1,186       1,443    1,787    2,083   1,923           876        (84)    (84)    (272)   (270)         (266)    (264)    (260)    (258)
V. CASH FLOW - Net                                          14   (1,904)       (17)       539       828    1,866   2,240        1,598        628      626       438      440        444       446       450       452
- Cumulative                                        (1,890)  (1,907)   (1,368)    (540)   1,326   3,566           5,164      5,792   6,418      6,856   7,296       7,740    8,186    8,636    9,088
1/ In current terms until PY5, thereafter in constant 1982 terms.                                                                                                                                                  w
2/ Represents Governrment's contribution to the revolving fund for pre-financing of project operating costs.                                                                                                      -.
3/ Nationwide excluding Borgou and Atacora Incremental.



B E N T N
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Price Structure
Financial Prices                               Economic Prices
(1981 Prices)                                 (1981 Prices)
1983         1985          1990               1983         ]985          1990
COTTON LINT
MEXICAN SM 1 1/16", CIF
NORTHERN EUROPE 1/                                         1,850         2,000        2,070
QUALITY ADJUSTMENT (15%)                                        278          300           310
VALUE, BENIN COTTON LINT (CIF)  2/                           1,572         1,700        1,760
TRANSPORTATION, FOB COST -                              164          164           164
VALUE, BENIN COTTON LINT FOB                                 1,408         1,536        1,596
('000 CFAF)
FOB EQUIVALENT, CFAF (@ $1=CFAF 340)                           478.7         522.2         542.6               478.7        522.2         542.6
EXPORT DUTY (10%)                                                 4.8          5.2           5.4                 -            -             _
TRANSIT & HANDLING-                                              14.4         14.4          14.4               14.0         14.0          14.0
TRANSPORT & H DLING BOHICON/COTONOU4                             27.4         27.4          27.4               27.4         27.4          27.4
GINNING COSTS-                                                   35.0         35.0          35.0               35.0         35.0        -35.0 
u,
TOTAL MILLGATE                                      397.1         440.2         460.4              402.3        445.8         466.2                       C
SEED COTTON EQUIVALENT 6                                        152.9        169.5         177.3              154.9        171.6         179.5
VALUE OF COTTON SEED                                              1.4          4.1           5.8                1.4          4.1           5.7
PRIMARY MARKETING COSTS-                                         18.9         18.9          18.9               18.7         18.7          18.7
PRESENT FARMGATE PRICES                                    80.0          80.0         80.0              137.6         157.0        166.5
SURPLUS                          8                       55.4         74.7          84.2
SURPLUS, COMMISSIONS EXCLUDED 8/                         63.3         83.9          92.1
-/ IBRD, Commodity Price Forecast, April, 1982.
21 Bareme, Cotton, 1980/81 including SONACEB Commission of CFAF 4906/ton.
-/ Include SONACEB overheads (Bareme, Cotton, 1980/81 taken to end 1981 by 1/2 year inflation at 12%).
4/
-  Bareme, Cotton, 1980/81 taken to end 1981 by 1/2 year inflation at 12%; includes SONAGRI commission of CFAF 3,892 and overhead.
Bareme, Cotton, 1980/81 taken to end 1981 by 1/2 year inflation at 12%; includes ginning, factory overhead and packing.
-/ Converted at 38.5% lint.
- Bareme, Cotton, 1980/81; including Carder Commission CFAF 1,000, and overhead CFAF 3,500.
-/ SONACEB - CFAF 4,906/ton lint, SONAGRI - CFAF 3,892/ton lint, CARDER Commission - CFAF 1,000/t seed and overheads CFAF 3,500/t seed;
converted to ton of seed cotton basis. These amounts represent payments to the organizations involved in excess of actual costs
of operations and are, therefore, discressionary funds.



- 57 -
ANNEX I
BENIN                                                    Table 5
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMDNT OF REPRESENTATIVE PARK MODELS
Production (kg)                          GROSS REVENUE                     COSTS OF PRODUCTION  V
Land Area   W.O.Project         W.Project          W.O.Project         W.Project        W.O.Project        W.Project
South Zou                (ha)        Stage 0    Stage I    Stage II    Stage 0          Stage I    Stage II   Stage 0    Stage I    Stage II
Maize                 0.96          576        960          1,536        48,960       81,600    130,560          -          5,040      10,080
Beans                 0.40          140        200            280        15,400       22,000      30,800         -          1,658       3,106
Rice                  0.01            7         10             13           630           900       1,170        -             53         105
Sorghum               0.12           84         84             84        63,000        6,300       6,300         -            -           -
Cassava               0.19        1,140      1,140         1,140         22,800       22,800      22,800         -            -           -
Yam                   0.08          640        640            640        16,000       16,000       16,000        -            -           -
Groundnut             0.69          414        552            759        33,120       44,160      60,720         -            -         3,150
Cotton                0.25          150        200            250        12,000       18,600      23,250        2,245       6,010       8,134
Total             2.70                                              155,210       212,360    291,600        2,245      12,761       24,577
Number of Persons    7
Number of Adults       3.5
North Zou
Maize                 1.00          600      1,000          1,600        51,000       85,000    136,000          -          5,250      11,550
Beans                 0.30          105        150            210        11,550       16,500    231,000          -          1,243       2,072
Rice                  0.01            7         10             13           630           900      1,170         -             53         105
Sorghum               0.15          105        105            105         7,875        7,875       7,875         -            -           -
Cassava               0.54        3,240      3,240          3,240        64,800       64,800      64,800         -            -           -
Yam                   0.40        3,200      3,200          3,200        80,000       80,000      80,000         -            -           -
Groundnut             0.50          300        400            550        24,000       32,000      44,000         -            -         2,625
Cotton                0.50          300        400            500        24,000       37,200      46,500      9,394        12,019      16,163
Total             3.40                                              263,855       324,275    403,445       9,394       18,565      32,515
Number of Persons    8
Number of Adults       4
Net Revenue  V  and 2/             MAN DAY/Year                   Net Revenue/Man Day V
W.O.Project        W.Project         W.O.Project        W.Project         W.O.Project        W.Project
South Zou               Stage 0       Stage I    Stage II   Stage 0    Stage I    Stage II   Stage 0    Stage I    Stage II
Maize                  1,360        28,960      72,880        80          104          112       17.0        278.5       670.7
Beans                    -           4,942      12,292        34           38          43         -          130.1       286.9
Rice                     _             217         435         2            2            2         _         108.5       218,0
Sorghum                  -              -           -         10           10          10          -           -           -
Cassava                 400            400         400        33           33           33      12.1          12.1        12.1
Yam                     250            250         250        23           23           23       10.8         10.9        10,9
Groundnut             4,000        15,040       28,450        62           74           80      64.5         203.2       355.6
Cotton                9,755        12,590       15,116        28           32           35     348.4         393.4       431.9
Total             15,765        62,399    129,823         272          316         338       57.9        197.5       384.1
Interest                -           1,403       2,703
Head Tax 3/        _7.000          12,600      12,600
Total Net          8,765        48,396    114,520                                            32.2        153.2       338.8
North Zou
Maize                10,200         38,950      83,650        91          119          140     112.1         327.3       597.5
Beans                 7,150        10,857       16,628        26           29           32     275.0         374.4       519.6
Rice                    270            487         705         2            2            2     135.0         243.5       352.5
Sorghum                 675            675         675        13           13           13      51.9          51.9        51.9
Cassava              20,000        20,000      20,000         95           95           95     210.0         210.5       210.5
Yam                  30,000        30,000       30,000       116          116          116     258.6         258.6       258.6
Groundnut             8,000        16,000       25,375        45           54           58     177.8         296.2       437.5
Cotton               14,606        25,181       30,337        56           64           70     260.8         393.5       433.4
Total             90,901       142,450    207,370         444          492         526      204.7        288.9        394.2
Interest                -           2,042       3,577
Head Tax              8,000        14,400      14,400
Total Net        82,901        125,708    189,393                                           186.7        255.5       360.1
1/ Less value of home - consumption and seed.
V All costs and revenues in CFAF.
_/ Without project, head tax is at CFAF 2,000 per adult farmer.   With the project, head tax is at CFAF 3,600 per adult
farmer.



- 58 -
BENIN
ZOU PROVINCE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIGRAM
MINISTRY OF RURAL
DEVELOPMENT AND            OTHER MINISTRIES
COOPERATIVE ACTION          AND INSTITUTIONS
PROJECTMtYONITORING 
AND EVALUATION       __ PROJECT MANAGER                  SONAGRI
UNtTI 
SEED FAR                          ROJECT                     FINANCIAL  L               ASSISTANT
MAAGE TEHNICAL          _       CONTROLLER                PROJECT MANAGER
AD MI N IST RAT IO N
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY           EXTENSION SERVICES         LAND USE SERVICES                    FINANCEAND
DIVISION     |  r          DIVISION                   DIVISION      ____       _    ADMINISTRATION
DIVISION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IVSO
ANIMAL                    ExTENSioN                  LOWLAND                         BUDGETINGAND
I PiOCIN     _ SERVICES             DEVELOPMENT                        ACCOUNTING
PRODUCTION                  AND FIELD                                                  _        NG
I       DEMONSTRATIONS
RURAL WATER                      INPUT SUPPLY
1  HEALTH  l  l                                 l     SUPPLY                          AND CREDIT
iWATER ANDC                     ADMINISTRATIVE
COOPERATIVE             FOREST RESOURCES]                   AND PERSONNEL
ACTION                                                     SERVICES
AGRICULTUR:EAL J
RESARCH                  RURAL YOUTHRT
HOME                                                       WORKSHOP
ECONOMICS
OX-DRAWN
CULTIVATION
DISTRICTAGRICULTURAL
OFFICER
SUBSECTOR
|   CHIEF  
EXTENSION
AGENT
WodId Bank-23620



M A L I,~ 
h\AURITANIA                                                                                                                      ZWhbssbI                     rh@b 
X 2 UPF PE R         X                                r                               -  _N IG._R_R
ft VL.'TA
UUE~~~EA          ( ~~  NIGERIA        j                                                                                                            O 
COAST                          /~~~~~~~~~~CENTRAI
N       _   /CAMEROON (REFUBITIC
9,-1~f ft G               z -
AFTANTIC OCEAN                                 RO t. jNGO                                  /
ABON               //T                    F                N  |
U3 P P< E R,{ V 0L   A
fo   TanguithcS    (      /~  tt    i  XB    0(  R / G /                                                          i
v   {  > /              3 G mp mo      7      /    /          _   2(  /G.-                                        IJ
,   ,2 NATIT3NGOU j/ ,uonde        g        _\t/                  MGomlo         2                 /    /    '~~~~~~~
md/w C  \is   \   1L<<  . 3srN                                    wJ~~~~~~~~. 6
T 0  G  o     q /                   ->                          i~~~~~~~B 
K~~~i=TQ. PRJCT-E
T~ ~   ~ 0     G                                               Kl      :Poec  rr
/1   V  +   =.0Q0)    aP                                         Prvedro E   N    Ids
j~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~O  PRVIC  RURA  DEELPMN  PROTJECT Ert r
2   , i X    I  I  V    X  z     .  9 9^                            ,   ,,OJEC RlAREA
2   !   :  G^USo4zS   0   o  ;  lS   Y                               *    Int~~~~~~~~~~~P,.ecntio aire or
27   (   : L    go>;\: ;omii - t   Oa,                                 fs~~(9     N.ti-nl c.pltal
9   ! (l  +     X  = tPoxg Isirm    kg.->q                            i5~ ~~~~~ D,,t,ict c.p,t.lS
/  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W -i .. I b-d o   ;
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oc. lzi <vbadom<uneJt 
i (nfiDoGbo-Totg g XOUXE- ~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOM^ETER.S
A    hJ .                                        N                                         I   G    EOi    Rdlhu  I   Ake
G  H A  N A          LOMEP po                                 ;j 00                               ;ici
p    .    =   : f        :    fT: =/ 47~~~ h- T:  0O  F            B    E  N    H                                                        -






IBRD 16247
.  !   z  i                                        FEBRUARY  1982
B E N I N
j  ;/ B 0 RO G O U                         f                    ZOU PROVINCE
j  t   ,1    ,              v  RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A T A C   O R A                                                      g                                       PROJECT INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ISOHYETS
1200                                                       g/  TouiO flj Project area boundary
E { g * Proiect headquarters
A /    X* SONAGRI headquarters
)                                                            ./ 0c> -    i   OU3S                                             O       Ginneries
/f Il                                                                                                                                   N ooY |   Niaouli research station
0 Bont4                                                                   0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Seed fo-t
1250I 
10      Meteorology stations
/                                                              1250 lsohyets in miimeters
*           Av j   *   'MZ\ierage monthly rainfall
2sjj/ jtsso-Zoumen m i imeters
JF.rAMJJASOND)
J. A SOND                                         Risers
. . .  .   Pro -c al boundaries
I-            Internoto nal boundaries
SAVALOU                                                                                                              Proect Ds orict Offices
O                               SavMlouo                                                                                                                 j
0   >                                                 0                                                                   G)AOL    IEERHSAtO   )<?\
0D  s-zouml                           0
9                                                                    0       10      20       30      40       50
O      ,                                                                                                                                            KIL OMTE rRS
1250
iioo                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~Thin m-p has been prepa-d by the
I-                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W-rld Ranks staff eocl-aiely 'o-
the con-enence of the readers of
the report to ehic,h itis attaChed.
The denoinations used and the
bboundaries shown on this map
h           N    -                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~do not imply, on the part of the
World Bash and its affiliates, any
judgment onte legal status of
any territor0y orhany endorsemet
or acceptance of such boundarie.
120                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIGER    .
<  0Dj                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UPPER VOLTA
1150                           MAO                             co          1100                                                    ,
110     omeyo         Boio                     e     anI                                               ~'TCR                             ORGOU
0                   ~~~~~~~~uinhi0                       
a                                                                                                     (                                        .    1~~YOND   NIGERIA
GHAIA         ~       6AedfeS
1-1  ~ ~~~~,(T0G
5 ENIAOULI RESEARCH STATION
Portaoa
A   T   L  A  N   T   I Q   U   E                                                        B~~~~~~diHT    r   ENIN



