OFFICIALI       CREDIT NUMBER 1314 PFN
Development Credit Agreement
(Zou Province Rural Development Project)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
aud
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1314 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1983, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN (hereinafter called the Borrower or
Benin) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the\financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Republic of
France, acting through the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation, a
grant (hereinafter called the FAC Grant) in an amount equivalent
to twenty--six million French Francs (FF 26,000,000) to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreemenat (hereinafter called the FAC Grant Agree-
ment) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Republic of
France;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from .the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique, an agency of the Republic of
France, a loan (hereinafter called the CCCE Loan) in an amount
equivalent to forty-seven million French Francs (FF 47,000,000)
to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the CCCE
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CCCE;
and
(D) pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 18,
1982 and              1983, between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, the Association has granted to the Borrower an advance in
various currencies equivalent to two hundred eighty-one thousand
dollars ($281,000) (hereinafter called the Project Preparation
Advance) for the purpose of assisting the Borrower in the prepa-
ration of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties heretc hereby 1gree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "MDRAC" means the Ministere de Developpement Rural et
de l'Action Cooperative, the Borrower's ministry responsible for,
inter alia, rural development, or any successor thereto.
(b) "DRA" means the Departement de la Recherche Agronomique
in the Borrower's ministry responsible for agricultural research,
or any successcr thereto.
(c) "CARDER Statutes" means the Statutes approved by the
Borrower's Ordinance No. 75-84 of December 1975, as such Statutes
may be amended from time to time.
(d) "CARDER" means    Centre  d'Action  Regionale  pour  le
Developpement Rural established and operating pursuant to the
CARDER Statutes and "CARDER-Zou" means the CARDER responsible for
the Zou Province.
(e)  "GRVC" means Groupement Revolutionnaire a Vocation
Cooperative, a farmers' cooperative existing under the laws of
the Borrower.
(f) "PMEU" means the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
to be established under Section 3.06 (d) (i) of this Agreement.
(g) "SONAPRA Statutes" means the Statutes referred to in
Section 6.01 (d) as such Statutes may be amended from time to
time and "SONAPRA" means the Societe Nationale pour la Promotion


﻿-3-
Agricole, established and operating pursuant to the SONAPRA
Statutes.
(h)  "CAA" means the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, which
forms a part of the Borrower's ministry responsible for financial
affairs, or any successor thereto.
(i) "CFA Francs" and "CFAF" mean the Franc de la Communaute
Financiere Africaine, the common currency of the Borrower and the
other members of the West African Monetary Union.
(j) "Special Advance Account" means the Account referred to
in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
(k)  "CNCA" means Caisse Nationale de Cr6dit Agricole, the
Borrower's agency responsible for agricultural credit.
(1)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CNCA pursuant to Section
3.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(m)  "Special Input Account" means the Account to be opened
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
(n)  "French Franc" and "FF" means the currency of the
Republic of France.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eighteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 18,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-4-
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A, B and
D of the Project, open a Special Account in a bank acceptable to
the Association and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively to pay the reasonable costs of goods and services
required to carry out those Parts of the Project to be financed
under this Agreement in respect of Categories (1) and (2) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule I hereto.
(d) The Association shall, promptly after the Effective
Date, withdraw, on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account
and deposit into the Account referred to in paragraph (c) of this
Section, an initial amount in the currency of the Borrower
equivalent to eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 800,000). Thereafter, at the request of the Borrower, the
Association shall further withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account, such amounts as shall be required
to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to payments
made out of the Special Account for expenditures for the Project
eligible for financing under Categories (1) and (2) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 hereto, but only to the
extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with any
amount remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such request, shall not exceed, in the aggregate, the
equivalent of eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 800,000). Except as the Association shall otherwise
determine, each such deposit, after the initial deposit, shall be
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the
same Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement and in the same respective amounts as have
been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section.
(e) Prior to or at the time of each request for a deposit
by the Association into the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, in respect of each payment made by
the Borrower out of the Special Account, such documents and other


﻿-5-
evidence as the Association shall reasonably request showing that
the payment was made on account of the reasonable cost of goods
or services required for the Parts of the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with Schedule 1
to this Agreement. Such documents shall include, but not be
limited to, the separate accounts and the audits thereof referred
to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement.
(f) If the Association shall have determined that any pay-
ment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure
or in any amount not eligible for financing under Categories (1)
and (2) of the table set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 1 here-
to, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished pursuant
to paragraph (e) of this Section, the Borrower shall, promptly,
upon notice from the Association and, unless otherwise determined
by the Association prior to any further depcsit in the Special
Account by the Association, deposit into the Special Account an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.
(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d) of this
Section, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals from the Credit Account
can be made directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account
under paragraph (a) of this Section, or when the total amount
withdrawn from the Credit Account, plus the amount of any
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Association and any
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall have reached the
equivalent of seventeen million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,100,000), whichever shall be sooner.
Withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining amount of the
Credit for the Project shall follow such procedures as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association, and shall be
made only to the extent that the Association shall be satisfied
by the evidence submitted in support of the applications for such
withdrawal that all payments by the Borrower out of the Special
Account were made on account of the reasonable cost of goods or
services required for those Parts of the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the


﻿-6-
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1989 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of this Agreement to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1993, and ending October 1,
2032, each installment to and, including the installment payable
on October 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and B of
the Project through CARDER-Zou, Part B through CNCA, Part C
through DRA, Parts D and F jointly through MDRAC with CARDER-Zou
and DRA, and Parts E and G through SONAPRA, all with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricul-
tural, administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
the Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facil-
ities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. For the purpose of carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall:
(a) make available to CARDER-Zou, MDRAC and SONAPRA, in the
form of grants, the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from time to
time from the Credit Account for expenditures required under
Parts A, D, F and G of the Project;
(b) enter with CNCA into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association pursuant to
which the Borrower shall, inter alia:
(i) relend to CNCA the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from time to time from the Credit Account for expendi-
tures required under Part B of the Project;
(ii) cause CNCA to pay interest to the Borrower at the rate
of six per cent (6%) per annum on the amount so relent
and outstanding to CNCA; and
(iii) cause CNCA to onlend such proceeds at an interest rate
of eleven per cent (11%) per annum to farmers.
Section 3.03. (a) Pursuant to its obligations under
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and without any limitation upon
the generality thereof, the Borrower shall, not later than
February .28, 1983, cause SONAPRA to open a Special Input Account
at the Banque Commerciale du Benin (BCB) and deposit into said
Account the respective contributions of the Borrower, the FAC and
the CCCE, to ensure the availability to SONAPRA, by October 31 of
each year, the funds necessary to finance imports required under
Parts A (v) and G of the Project.


﻿-8-
(b) Further to its obligations under paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall, not later than October 31 of each
year, cause CNCA to make available to SONAPRA, credit sufficient
to cover farmers' contributions for input purchases.
Section 3.04. Not later than June 30, 1984, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, for its review and comment, the
recommendations of the study referred to in Part F (iv) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1983 employ or cause to be employed the following:
(a) specialists    and  consultants   whose  qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association, such specialists and consultants
to be selected in accordance with principles satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 including,
in particular, for CARDER-Zou:
(1) a Deputy Project Manager responsible for
Technical Development,
(2) a Financial Controller,
(3) a Chief Accountant,
(4) an Input Supply and Credit Specialist,
(5) a Training Specialist, and
(6) a Manager responsible for the Garages.
(b) a Beninese Project Manager and a Beninese Deputy Pro-
ject Manager for Administration and Finance whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association, to work in close cooperation with the
consultants and specialists referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section.


﻿-9-
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
finahced out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The   Borrower   shall  cause  all  goods  and   services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association, at
regular intervals, all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Without any limitation upon the generality of para-
graphs (a) and (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) cause
CARDER-Zou, for Parts A and B; CNCA for Part B; DRA for Part C;
MDRAC for Parts D and F and SONAPRA for Parts E and G of the
Project, to furnish to the Association comprehensive quarterly
progress and annual reports to be prepared in a format acceptable
to the Association and to include such detailed financial,
technical and budgetary information as the Association may
reasonably request; and (ii) cause each annual report to be
furnished to the Association not later than February 28 of the
succeeding calendar year.


﻿- 10 -
(d)  The Borrower shall: (i) not later than September 30,
1983 establish, under the supervision of MDRAC, and, thereafter,
maintain in existence, at least until completion of the Project,
the PMEU provided for under Part D of the Project; (ii) not later
than September 30, 1983, prepare and furnish to the Association
for its review and concurrence, a detailed work program for the
PMEU; and (iii) thereafter, promptly implement such work program
as approved by the Association.
(e) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(f) Promptly after completion of the Project, but, in any
event, not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association, that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause CARDER-Zou to: (i)
furnish to the Association its proposed work plan and associated
budget for the first year of Project execution, for review and
concurrence and, thereafter, promptly inplement such work plan
and associated budget as approved by the Association; and (ii)
thereafter, furnish to the Association, by December 31 of each
year, its proposed annual work plan and associated budget for the
following year for review and concurrence; and (iii) promptly
implement such work plan and associated budget as approved by the
Association.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) cause CARDER-Zou,
CNCA and SONAPRA to maintain, and (ii) ensure that its
departments or agencies responsible for carrying out the Project
maintain records adequate to reflect, in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices, the
operations,   resources   and   expenditures  related   to   their
respective parts of the Project.
(b)   Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall cause CARDER-Zou, CNCA and its departments or agencies
responsible  for  carrying  out  the Project    to: (i) maintain
separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; and (iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause CARDER-Zou, CNCA and SONAPRA:
(i) to have their accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) to furnish to the Association
as soon as available, but, in any case, not later than six months
after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of their
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, in-
cluding, without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion
by said auditors in respect of the expenditures and records
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it and withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the basis. of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
to furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of CARDER-Zou, CNCA and
SONAPRA and the audits thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.


﻿- 12 -
(d)  The Borrower shall, through MDRAC, ensure that each of
its departments or agencies responsible for carrying out the
Project: (i) have each of their accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and relat"d
statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association,
as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audits by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audits thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02..The Borrower shall cause CARDER-Zou, MDRAC and
SONAPRA:
(a) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers or
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association, for insur-
ance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice;
(b)  to carry on their operations and conduct their affairs
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, economic and
agricultural practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and
(c) at all times, to operate and maintain their plants,
machinery, equipment and other property and, from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
agricultural practices.
Section  4.03  (a) The   Borrower  shall, not    later  than
February 28 of each year, set the minimum farmgate prices for
seed cotton in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
Association.
(b) In order to recover an adequate portion of its costs
for the support of cotton production in Benin, the Borrower
shall: (i) progressively raise the prices charged to farmers for
fertilizers and pesticides so as to phase out completely current


﻿- 13 -
subsidies on these inputs by not later than February 28, 1989;
(ii) not later than March 31 of each year, announce the new
adjusted prices for fertilizers and pesticides; (iii) for the
1983/84 growing season, cause CARDER-Zou nd CNCA to charge
interest at the rate of at least eleven peL cent (11%) per annum
on seasonal and medium-term credits to cotton growers; (iv) for
subsequent growing seasons, cause CARDER-Zou and CNCA to adjust
such interest rate, in accordance with criteria satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association; (iv) annually, revise the
cotton  bareme  to   reflect  the  real  cost  of  production   as
determined by CARDER-Zou's and SONAPRA's financial management;
and (v) not later than January 1, 1986, institute charges for
improved seed sufficient to cover variable costs of production.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than
June 30, 1983, furnish to the Association for its review and com-
ment, a bonus system to reward good performance by CARDER-Zou's
field extension personnel; and (ii) not later than December 31,
1983, increase the salaries of CARDER-Zou's personnel to the
level of other state enterprises of the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(a) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdic-
tion, shall have taken action for the dissolution or disestab-
lishment of CARDER-Zou or SONAPRA or for the suspension of their
respective operations;
(b) the SONAPRA Statutes or the CARDER Statutes shall have
been amended, suspended or abrogated so as to affect materially
and adversely the operations or financial conditions of SONAPRA
or CARDER-Zou; and
(c)  (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the CCCE Loan or the FAC Grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor; or


﻿-14 -
(B) the CCCE Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof; and
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purpose of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pur-
suant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph c (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:
(a) The first annual work plan and associated budget to be
furnished to the Association, pursuant to Section 3.09 (i) of
this Agreement, has been approved by the Association.
(b) The Special Advance Account has been opened as provided
in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement and the Borrower has
furnished evidence satisfactory to the Association that an
initial deposit of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) (in
the currency of the Borrower) has been made into said account.


﻿- 15 -
(c) The CCCE Loan and FAC Grant Agreements have been duly
signed and all conditions, if any, precedent to the effectiveness
of, or initial disbursement under, said Agreements except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement have been satisfied.
(d)  The Association has been notified by the Borrower that
the SONAPRA Statutes have been approved and duly signed into law.
(e) The Borrower shall have furnished to the Association
the terms of reference of the cotton study, satisfactory to the
Association, referred to in Part F (iv) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(f) The Borrower shall have furnished to the Association
SONAPRA's -organigram, satisfactory to the Association, and its
opening balance sheet.
Section 6.02. The date                 )            is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (a) of Sec-
tion 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section .7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 302
Cotonou
People's Republic of Benin


﻿- 16 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINANCES                         5009 or
Cotonou                              5289
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By           lcd!                    A
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
1.   CARDER-Zou:
(a) Vehicles             1,680,000          75%
(b) Equipment and          420,000           100%
Furniture
(c) Operating Costs      3,160,000           55%
including Local
Salaries
(d) Technical            2,100,000           100%
Assistance
(e) Consultant             220,000          50%
Services
2.   Technical Assistance       950,000           100%
under Part D of the
Project
3.   CNCA:
Credits to                 260,000           100%
Farmers
4.   Fertilizer/Insecticide:
(a) Incremental          2,710,000          75%
Expenditures


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(b) Imports              4,400,000           60% up to
SDR 1,900,000
57% up to
SDR   1,660,000
and 18% there-
after
5.   Initial deposit            800,000
under Section
2.02 (c)
6.   Refunding of Project       270,000           Amount due
Preparation Advance                          under Section
2.02 (b) of
this Agreement
7.   Unallocated              1,730,000
TOTAL              18,700,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proce-eds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
To that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(b) payments made for expenditures under Category 3 unless
the Association shall have received satisfactory evidence that


﻿- 19 -
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of
this Agreement has been duly authorized by the Borrower and CNCA
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower
and CNCA in accordance with its terms; and
(c) payments made for expenditures under Category 4, unless
the Association shall have received satisfactory evidence that
the obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.03 (b) (ii) of
this Agreement are being fulfilled.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which, in the opinion of the
Association, are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to expand agricultural production
and improve the management and technical infrastructure of the
Borrower's Zou Province so as to raise the income and living
standards of farmers in such Province and promote the Borrower's
export trade.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Expansion and Improvement of the Technical Infra-
structure and Field Activities of CARDER-Zou:
(i) Strengthening and reorganization of the management and
field services of CARDER-Zou.
(ii) Strengthening and reorganization of the transportation,
ginning and marketing services of CARDER-Zou.
(iii) Construction, or reconstruction, of about 150 village
wells   and   rehabilitation   of  about   200   ha   of
bottomlands.
(iv) Improvement of animal husbandry through the introduc-
tion of animal health care.
(v) Provision of credit for agricultural inputs.
(vi) Consolidation of existing GRVCs and establishment of
new ones.
(vii) Implementation of a comprehensive training program and
provision of fellowships to senior CARDER personnel.
(viii) Establishment of a seed multiplication farm.
Part B:   Ox-drawn Cultivation and Agricultural Equipment
Provision, through CNCA, of medium-term agricultural credit
to farmers for purchase of oxen and agricultural equipment.


﻿- 21 -
Part C:   Agricultural Research
Applied research on foodcrops, cotton and farming systems
carried out by units of the DRA.
Part D:   Technical Assistance to MDRAC:
(i) Establishment and operation of a PMEU at Bohicon.
(ii) Strengthening of the Planning and Studies Division of
the MDRAC.
Part E:   Strengthening of SONAPRA
Strengthening of SONAPRA's administrative and financial
management procedures and transport and cotton marketing systems.
Part F:   Studies:
(i) A study on the rural sector of the Zou Province.
(ii) A study on the feasibility of a possible follow-up
project.
(iii) A study on and technical assistance for cotton ginning.
(iv) A study on the cotton sector and the establishment of a
cotton account for activities related to the cotton
sector.
Part G:   Support to the Country-wide Recurrent Fertilizer/-
Insecticides Import Program
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in eart C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 23 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Benin may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Benin
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Benin equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from Group A or Group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each Group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 24 -
such Group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the Group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the low-
est evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent may be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accord-
ance with procedures acceptable to the Association, provided,
however, that the aggregate price of the contracts so awarded
shall not exceed eight hundred thousand ($800,000) equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
or cause to be furnished to the Association, for its comments,
the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall
make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as
the   Association   shall   reasonably  request.   Any   further
modification  to   the  bidding  documents   shall  require  the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received which presents its
recommendations concerning the award of the contract and such
other information as the Association sh,,ll reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award


﻿- 25 -
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrenc-e, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
,of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of,the contract by
more than fifteen per cent (15%) of the original price, the Bor-
rower shall inform the Association of the proposed modification,
waiver, extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The
Association, if it determines that the proposal would be incon-
sistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of sei
1F98  S.
FOR SECRETARY


