Document of
FILE COPY                             The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1824-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTEE'NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PROGRAM CREDIT
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
April 26, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US $1          =  Rs  9.90
Rs  1          =  US $0.101
Rs  1          =  US $101,000
Rs 1 billion = US $101.0 million
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INIERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED PROGRAM CREDIT TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
program credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for US$50 million on
standard IDA terms.
1/
PART I - THE ECONOMY-
2.        The most recent economic report "Recent Trends and Development
Prospects" (1023-PAK, dated March 1, 1976) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on March 10, 1976. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.        The Pakist.an economy has experienced considerable difficulty in
the 1970's following a period of sustained growth in the previous decade.
A variety of adverse developments and policy problems have contributed
to the slowdown in recent years of economic growth to an average of only 3% -
barely equalling the increase in population. There was first the war with
India and the separation of Bangladesh, which involved, of course, signifi-
cant change and adjustments for the Pakistan economy. This adjustment was
the more difficult because of the loss concurrently taking place in the
momentum of the "green revolution" which had been one of the mainstays of
the favorable economic period of the late 1960's. Similarly industrial
development was discouraged in that same period by changed political
attitudes toward the private sector as reflected in the nationalization of
a large part of private industry in 1972.
4.        All of thi!s was exacerbated by successive poor monsoons and harvests,
in 1973 and 1974. Tlhen finally there was the severe dislocation of
shifting world prices and the deterioration in the terms of trade in 1974
followed by the world recession which limited the possibilities of adjust-
ment to the changed world price relationships through export expansion.
5.        Some of the adverse consequences of all this were, in addition
to the generally sluggish economic activity, a huge increase in the current
balance of payments deficit from $120 million in 1973 to over $1,200 million
in 1975, a very shari) drop during the same period in the rate of domestic
savings from 14% to about 6%o and rising fiscal deficits wlhich in combination
with the poor harvest:s and other shortages fueled an inflation which reached
a rate of 25% a year in 1973 and 1974.
1/ All years shown in tables below refer to Pakistan fiscal year (July 1-
June 30): Text references distinguish between fiscal and calendar years,
as appropriate in each case.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
6.        Despite these difficulties Pakistan managed to reverse the
decline in investment and, since 1973, investment has expanded by about
13% per year in real terms. This considerable achievement was made
possible by a very large increase in external capital flows which rose
from an average of $485 million per year in the early 1970's to about
$1,110 million in 1975/76.
7.        However, the cost of expanding investments by relying on
external capital has been considerable. It has resulted in an unusually
heavy external debt - the terms for much of which will mean a formidable
jump in debt service requirements in the medium-term. Service on the
debt outstanding in 1975 (including undisbursed) will be about 2-1/2 times
as high in 1978 as the debt service of the early 1970's. With the addi-
tional external capital expected to be necessary in the next four years the
debt service ratio could well reach around 25% in 1980 or 1981 (compared
with 15% in 1975) unless exports were to grow faster than the 6% rate
achieved in the 1960's. Exports will certainly have to do far better
than the stagnant record of 1970-75 if the debt service is to remain
manageable.
8.        The composition of the expanded investment program also was a
cause for concern. It involved heavy commitments to long-gestation
industrial projects, now under construction, and insufficient emphasis on
early yielding programs in general and in agriculture in particular.
II. THE REQUIREMENTS
9.        These difficulties in which the Pakistan economy had become
entangled in the last five years call for major departures from past
economic policies to assure a manageable economic situation, accelerate
growth and provide resources for long neglected social sectors. There is
a wide range of improvements in the economic structure which are essential
for both economic and social advancement and a steady approach to economic
viability. The crucial first steps are an acceleration of agricultural
development, promotion of rapid export expansion, and greater mobilization
of domestic resources. From these the revival and expansion of industry
could be expected to follow. In total the result should represent a more
rapid growth pattern generating in turn the further expansion of resources
for greater domestic productivity as well as greater participation in
development and its benefits by the poor.
10.       Bank assessments of Pakistan's economic potential, especially
in agriculture, suggest that such a pattern of achievement is within the
country's potential, and that substantial progress toward such achievement
is feasible in the medium-term. The principal elements in agriculture,
resource mobilization, export promotion, and creation of a climate favorable
to industrial development are discussed below.



-3-
Agriculture
11.       A large element of the agricultural growth during the 1960's
can be attributed to the introduction of high yielding varieties (HYV's)
and rapid expansion of tubewell irrigation. Further room remains for
expansion along these same lines, especially through extension to smaller
cultivators of the means to take advantage of the HYV's. Apart from the
benefits of additional water from the Tarbela Dam, there is further scope
for raising production through increases in fertilizer application rates
to take full advantage of the potential of the HYV's, more pesticides,
further expansion of groundwater use through additional tubewell develop-
ment, particularly in the private sector, and better enforcement of
regulations concerning water use and watercourse maintenance. However,
exploitation of this potential will require that price policies are such
that farmers have adequate incentives, that inputs are available in
adequate quantities and in timely fashion, and that agricultural agencies
are strengthened with respect to their finances, their personnel and their
organization. Furtherinore, it is to be expected that there will be
further development of the HYV technology for application to a wider range
of crops than at preseilt.  Nevertheless, the scope for reliance on farmer
initiatives in the "green revolution" tradition is probably limited.
Beyond such revitalization of HYV potentialities Pakistan's ability to
sustain faster growth in agricultural production than in population depends
essentially on fundamental improvements in the management of Pakistan's
ample land and water r,ssources. This will require both substantial invest-
ments and improvements in agricultural institutions. As such measures
take time to become effective, the necessary changes have to be initiated
now.
12.       Among the urgently needed improvements are those in water and
farm management. Over 74% of the irrigated land in Pakistan is served by
canal water from a system that was developed largely between 1880 and 1930.
There is a general need to improve the efficiency of the canal system and
the use of water reaching the farmer. Up to 50% of the water reaching the
outlets from the main canals is lost owing to the inefficiencies of the
watercourse system linlking the canals to the farms and to poor water
management practices on the farm. The maintenance of the watercourse
system is largely the responsibility of the individual farmers, but the
benefits from maintenance accrue to farmers further down the watercourse.
Consequently, there is little or no incentive for watercourse maintenance,
except for the negative incentive of government fines and penalties. The
result is a potential :Loss of water causing water-logging in some areas,
while other farmers have inadequate supplies. Institutional arrangements
need to be modified to insure proper watercourse maintenance and improvement,
In addition, existing :Laws and regulations on water management should be
more strictly enforced.
13.       Farm use of water is often inefficient owing to poor farming
practices. It pays the farmer to spread water thinly over as much land
as possible in order to maximize production in the short-run. This, however,
may increase soil salinity and thus lower long-run productivity. Fields
which are not sufficiently level also reduce efficiency of water use by both



-4-
under and over-watering during irrigation. The practice of field-to-
field irrigation also hampers the spread of water. A general upgrading
of the farmer's technical knowledge through redesign of the extension
service and its practices is thus necessary.
14.       The technology for reducing waterlogging and salinity is well
known, but investment in projects for this purpose has been lagging and
could be accelerated to prevent further loss of cropping potentials.
The return on these investments will be low however unless supporting
services are substantially improved. These include agricultural research,
extension services, agricultural credit, and similar services designed
to improve the productivity of the farmer by giving him access to more
modern methods and inputs.
Resource Mobilization
15.       Resource mobilization potentials are considerable in Pakistan,
especially with more buoyant economic activity. Among policies required
there is foremost the need for policies to encourage private savings
through the maintenance of positive real interest rates on time deposits.
Greater public savings can come both from increased revenue and a slower
growth of non-development expenditures. Tax revenues increased less
rapidly than inflation last year and despite heavy additional taxation
in the past, tax receipts have remained around 15% of GDP. As a result of
numerous exemptions and increased personal allowances, direct taxes,
particularly income taxes, are not sufficiently elastic with respect to
income growth. Exemptions and additional individual allowances granted
in the last three budgets have also raised taxable limits for the purpose
of income tax to levels which are unusually generous by standards of
similar developing countries. They have restricted the number of income
tax payers to less than 400,000. If exemptions and family allowances were
reduced, income tax receipts could increase significantly as incomes grow
and inflation widens the tax base.
16.       A major issue concerning future revenue is the role of prices
and subsidies. Prices of many key commodities have been raised in the
past year but further increases are possible and necessary both for fiscal
reasons and as incentives to producers.
17.       Although the provincial governments' revenue has been increasing,
the recent increases have flowed mainly from excise and other indirect
taxes which cannot be relied upon to provide the required buoyancy to
revenues over the longer run.    Some of the major provincial possibilities
are increasing water rates, higher land taxes with sufficient flexibility
to keep up with the rise in land values, and an agricultural income tax.
Revenues from land and related taxes and water rates have in fact declined
in real terms during the last three years.
18.       These are only some of the possibilities for greater resource
mobilization. Broadly, even with suitable policies and effort it will



-5-
probably take some time to again reach the 13% saving rates that prevailed
until the terms of trade changes of 1974 widened the resource gap and reduced
private savings to 6.5% of GNP while public savings became slightly negative.
Nevertheless, in the conatext of a more active economy and saving-oriented
policies a doubling of. the recent level of saving should be a reasonable target
over the next five years.
ExDorts
19.       Expansion of exports at a rate considerably in excess oE growth
in GNP should be well within Pakistan's capability.    The potentials lie
mainly in agriculture, especially in further expansion of cotton
in agro-based manufacturing, especially cotton cloth and yarn; and in
other lines of manufacturing.   For cotton and agricultural Droducts in
general the problem is one of supply since Pakistan could already market
larger volumes abroad if they were available. Requirements for greater
supply of these commodit:ies are essentially those described above for
agriculture generally, as well as the elimination of policies such as export bans,
which discriminate against agricultural exports in favor of the domestic market.
20.       For the cotton and cotton textile industry there is an urgent
need to modernize in the interest of internationally competitive efficiency.
For these and other manufactures special incentives in the form of assistance
in modernization and of financial benefit for exports are probably
necessary.
21.       Industrial expansion could be expected, as indicated, to follow
the lead of agriculture and export growth as well as resource availability.
This would presuppose a redirection of policies designed to encourage such
development, and would assume of course, the availability of necessary
supplies and market outlets. The lagging industrial activity of recent
years has reflected unccngenial official attitudes and policies, along with
other adverse developments.
22.       Private sector industrial investment declined in real terms after
FY 1972, due to a combination of the devaluation, which increased the cost
of capital equipment, arnd the nationalization of a substantial part of
large-scale industry in that year. More recently, there has been a revival
of interest in private industrial investment which is the result of the
Government's clarification of the compensation to be paid for nationalized
industries. This has been accepted by the private investors as being fair,
and the Government has given assurances that no further nationalization
is being planned. Much of the new private investment, however, is taking
place in small-and medium-scale firms.
23.       Undoubtedly, there is also private interest in new large-scale
enterprises, but many such industries are foreclosed to private participa-
tion by the Government. These restrictions generally affect large-scale
plants in cement, chemicals, heavy engineering, light engineering,
petroleum refining, and automobiles. The Government, however, has allowed
private investments in these industries on a small-scale, and there have
been discussions of joint ventures by the Government with private investors.



-6-
The Government also appears willing to sanction large investments in
non-tranditional areas which are not on the reserved list. With the
exception of some investments in fertilizers, there has been little
foreign investment in the past several years. Most of the reluctance
by outside investors to come into Pakistan appears not to stem from the
fear of expropriation, since most developed countries offer insurance
against expropriation, but rather from uncertainty created by present
and potential government controls on prices and profits of private
enterprises. This problem is recognized by the Government, and new
regulations for foreign investment have been issued which guarantee
repatriation of profits and capital. However, the Government offers
neither special tax treatment nor other incentives to attract foreign
investment in industry, other than double taxation agreements with most
countries.
24.       Most of the industries taken over by the Government, as well
as those already in the public sector, were placed under the control of
the Board of Industrial Management (BIM). The capacity utilization of
these BIM industries is now close to 85%, and the rate of return on assets
is about 7%. These are average figures however and hide problems of some
particular industries. Capacity utilization varies significantly among
corporations. The Government has ambitious investment plans for the
public enterprises, based on increased self-financing. These plans will
be difficult to carry out unless either pricing policies are changed or
operational efficiency is markedly improved.
III. LONG TERM PROGRAM AND PROSPECTS
25.       In recognition of the difficulties of the Pakistan economic
situation and of the need for a turn-around of policy and performance,
the Pakistan Government has already taken a variety of steps to improve
agriculture, enlarge resource accumulation, promote exports and encourage
private industry. In addition, it is preparing a new five-year plan for
publication late this year or early next year and for which the outline
and content are fairly clear. Finally, it has decided on an immediate
program for 1976 and 1977 to advance the process of accelerating develop-
ment. The programs now in preparation and related measures already taken
or intended are all in the direction of improved management of the economy
and more effective development of Pakistan's resources. Their focus is
on the key priorities of agriculture, resource mobilization, exports and
industry as indicated below.
Agriculture
26.       Significant increases in agricultural output can be expected from
programs of rapid groundwater development and an associated doubling of
fertilizer use over the next five years. Specific elements include 18 million
additional acre feet of water from the Tarbela Dam and other surface water
schemes and another 12 million from private and public tubewells. Increased



-7-
domestic fertilizer production from two plants now under construction
is expected to contribute to supplies for a rise in fertilizer use from
the present 450,000 tons to one million. Plant protection, improved
seed and expanded credit are also expected to help in raising agricultural
output.
27.       Farmer incentives are of course vital to the agricultural
objectives and it is part of the program to ensure that these are adequate.
Last year the Government took a major step to insure farm incentives and
correct price distortions. The procurement price for wheat was increased
by 45% and for rice by 50%. Domestic prices remain still somewhat below
international levels although an increase this year in fertilizer use by
about 30% suggests that with favorable weather conditions the price
adjustment has provided adequate incentives. The Government is committed
to maintain a relationship between price of crops and fertilizer which will
stimulate fertilizer use with consequent expansion of agricultural production.
28.       Of particular importance also is the decision of the Government
to raise the share of agriculture in the total Plan expenditure and to
contribute to provincial resources for better maintenance and improvement
of irrigation works.
Resources
29.       The Government is considering a large real increase in public
investment which wiLl depend heavily on much larger mobilization of public
resources. Furthermiore, additional private saving is to be encouraged
through the maintentnce of interest rates on savings deposits at a set
margin above the ral:e of inflation.
30.       The official objective on public saving is an increase in the ratio
of public saving to GNP from the recent negative level to 2% in the near
term and higher rates thereafter, and to raise the ratio of taxes to GNP
from 13% (FY 1975) to 17% by FY 1981. Other intentions include greater
control over non-derelopment expenditures, particularly defense, reductions
in subsidies, and greater reliance on self-financing by the public sector
enterprises. Greater public resource mobilization plus use of private
savings would result:, according to current planning, in a reduction in the
dependence on foreign capital from 85% of development expenditures in 1975
to less than 50% by 1981.
Exports
31.       The essence of change in export policies and programs is that
official recognitiorL has now been taken of the vital importance of export
expansion to the future viability of the Pakistan economy, and of the
necessity to treat exports as a privileged sector through measures to ease
supply constraints on agricultural and industrial commodities for export.
Fiscal and other mecLsures which inhibit exports in the interest either of
revenue or of domest:ic supplies and prices are to be eliminated, and
special benefits for exporters which will enhance the attractions of
international compet:ition as compared with domestic markets will be provided.



-8-
32.       Early policy moves intended in support of these export
promotion measures are subsequently described. The initial official
assessments of Pakistan's export capability forecast a rate of real
increase of 15% a year. It is difficult to foresee an achievement of
this magnitude. However, there is no question that with the intended
incentives for exports and improvements in the supply and quality of
basic export commodities, the economy should be capable of export
expansion considerably higher than the growth in GNP and sufficient to
avoid an unmanageable foreign debt burden.
Investment
33.       Initial planning in Pakistan for the next five years involved
a large increase in real fixed investment which was probably beyond the
level of resources that could be mobilized.   This program is
now under reconsideration to arrive at a reconciliation between planned
investment levels and the resources that might be available from the
substantial resource effort that is contemplated together with a reasonable
allowance for international support.
34.      This reconciliation problem is complicated by the substantial
commitment to large industrial projects already underway such as the steel
plant and two fertilizer plants. It is a given in the planning exercise
that these should now go forward and hence the scope for alteration of
plan shares in favor of other economic and social objectives is limited in
the medium-term. Nevertheless, as indicated, the decision has been taken
to raise the planned share of agriculture from 15 to 20% and further
revisions of relative plan allocations are under consideration.
35.       While this planning for investments and related policies and progrars
over the next five years is still underway, the longer term obiectives are
sufficiently well formulated for deciding the specific immediate programming
and policy steps necessary to start the process of coping with and resolving
Pakistan's current difficulties. These specifics of near term intentions
of the Government have been discussed with the Bank and are described in
Section V below.



- 9 -
IV. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
36.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$1.2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. Through FY75, 43% of total commitments were for
public services, 2l% for agriculture, 22% for industry, 10% for industrial
imports and 1% for education. Lending for public services has amounted to
nearly US$500 million and has included loans and credits for railways,
electric power, gas pipelines, Karachi Port, highways, telecommunications
and water supplies. A large part of past lending for agriculture was for
Indus Basin projects. The lending for industry has been mainly through
the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). For most
projects for which loans and credits are being disbursed, construction is
now going ahead satisfactorily. The principal problems being encountered
are that the rates charged by some of the public services have not kept pace
with inflation and, hence, some utilities are not earning the return which
they need. Furthermore, some institutions have financial problems arising
from the loss of assets in the former East Pakistan. These problems are
the subject of current discussions between the Bank and the Government.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of
February 29, 1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
37.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives.   One
of these is to support the directly-productive sectors of the economy, to
increase production of import-substitutes such as foodgrains, edible oils,
fertilizer and engineering and capital goods and to sustain export growth
in cotton yarn and textiles, rice and a large number of other industrial
and agricultural products. The main part of Bank Group assistance for indus-
try will continue to be through financial intermediaries, such as PICIC, the
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) and the National Development
Finance Corporation ('NDFC) which provides finance primarily for industries
in the public sector. The most important part of future lending for agri-
culture is expected to be for the Government's new program to increase pro-
ductivity in the Indus Basin by controlling salinity and improving the
utilization of surface irrigation and groundwater. The Bank is the Executing
Agency for a UNDP technical assistance grant for improving agriculture and
water planning in the Indus Basin.
38.       Another objective is to continue to improve the institutions which
are responsible for tlhe principal public services which have benefitted from
Bank Group lending in the past, namely, the Telegraph and Telephone Department,
Water and Power Development Authority, Pakistan Railways and Sui Northern Gas
Pipelines Company. In most of these, institutional improvements are being
made with technical assistance financed by the Bank Group.



- 10 -
39.       A third objective is to expand lending operations in other fields,
particularly those which reflect the Government's efforts to bring economic
development to the poorest strata of the population. This proposed shift,
which implies increased lending for agriculture and rural development, will
be accompanied by a significant movement away from concentration on the massive
Indus/Tarbela works toward smaller-scale, more staff-intensive projects through-
out the sector and the country. Although not yet reflected in the record
of loans and credits approved, this shift has, in fact, already occurred in
terms of staff time devoted to the preparation of projects in rural development,
livestock and forestry.
40.       At the Government's request, Bank missions have been working with
municipal authorities on the plans for the urban development of Karachi,
whose population now exceeds 4 million. A Karachi master plan was completed
in 1974 with the assistance of consultants financed by UNDP, and urban projects
are being developed within the framework of this plan. In view of the pre-
paratory work which has already been done on urbanization problems of Karachi,
there are good prospects for worthwhile participation by the Bank Group in
this area, beginning with a project in the Lyari section of the city. The
Government has also asked the Bank to study urbanization problems in Lahore,
Pakistan's second largest city. Planning in Lahore is at a much earlier
stage than in Karachi and the immediate need is for technical assistance.
A mission to examine problems of urbanization and regional development of
smaller cities on a country-wide basis visited Pakistan in March 1975.
41.       Among the projects now being prepared for your consideration are
an irrigation and drainage project, a livestock project, a third education
project, a second water supply and sewerage project in Lahore and an urban
project in Karachi. All of these projects have been appraised. Preparatory
work is also proceeding on a loan for a fertilizer project, in which IFC
may also participate, and on further irrigation and drainage projects, as
well as a rural development project.
42.       IFC has made nine investments in Pakistan for a total of US$28
million, of which US$20.7 million was by way of loans and US$7.3 million
by equity participants. (These are shown in Annex II.) About US$11 million
remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include three in the
field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles, and one each in steel,
cement and fertilizers. IFC is also a shareholder of PICIC.



V. THE CASE FOR PROGRAM ASSISTANCE
43.       The case for program assistance to Pakistan rests essentially on three
grounds: First, the Government has formulated, for the period through FY 1977, a
program of action that addresses the three major problem areas in the performance
of the economy in recent years - agricultural production, mobilization of domestic
resources, and exports - and has taken initial steps towards its implementation.
Second, the Government has recognized that the problems besetting the economy
at present can be overcome only by a sustained effort on its part to strengthen
economic management; to that end, it has committed itself to a set of policy
objectives for the longer term as set out in the Planning Commission's draft of
the Fifth Five-Year Plan that would sustain the efforts begun under the program for
next year. Third, the limited foreign exchange resources currently in sight for
FY 1977 for financing imports other than those directly related to externally
assisted projects, would very severely constrain the Government's ability to give
effect next year to that part of its action program which in many ways holds the
key to its longer-term strategy, namely the acceleration of growth, particularly in
the agricultural sector.
44.       In February 1975, the Government requested a program credit on the occa-
sion of Prime Minister Bhutto's visit to Washington. This was based on an expected
deterioration in the balance of payments caused by adverse movements in the terms
of trade, drought during the summer of 1974 leading to poor crops, and de-
clining demand for Pakistan's exports brought on by the international recession
of 1975. The report of a mission sent to appraise the need for program
assistance stated that Pakistan had taken some steps to adjust to the new
situation by making changes in internal prices, raising taxes and reducing sub-
sidies. It concluded, however, that the Government did not have a viable program
designed over the longer term to overcome the effects on the economy of inter-
national economic developments and weaknesses in internal economic policies,
highlighted by Pakistan's dependence on external financing to a degree that was
unlikely to be sustainable and that even in the short run had greatly exacerbated
an already difficult external debt situation.
45.       The case for a program credit was re-appraised by the economic
mission, which visited Pakistan late last year, and further discussions on
the subject were held with the Government when the draft of the mission's report
was reviewed in February, 1976. By that time, the Government had made a compre-
hensive effort to assess the country's economic situation with a longer-term
perspective, to determine the essential elements of its strategy for the future,
and to identify the policy actions and other measures required to support the chosen
strategy. The results of this effort are embodied in the Planning Commission's
draft of the Fifth Five-Year Plan referred to in Section III above. As noted
above, the thrust of the present draft - the crucial role of domestic resource
mobilization and of fast growth in exports, the central position of agriculture
in any program aiming at more rapid growth of GDP - is in the right direction. Other



- 12 -
aspects, including in particular the acceleration of growth envisaged, the
associated size of the investment program and the sectoral composition of
development expenditures will require further consideration. Leaving aside
the specific content of the draft Plan, the effort made by the Government during
the past several months had two significant consequences: first, it revealed
to those responsible for the management of the country's economy the depth of
the problems to be resolved if Pakistan's development is to be put on a sounder
footing; second, it caused the Government to take the first steps away from
the temporizing, ad hoc approach to economic management that it had followed
since 1970.
46.       Meanwhile, the Government has decided to initiate a program
designed to re-direct policies and to institute other measures along the
lines set out in the draft of the Fifth Five-Year Plan. This program,
which is the subject of a letter from the Minister of Finance (Annex IV)
to the President of the World Bank, provides the framework for action
in the management of the economy through FY 1977. Its emphasis is on agri-
culture, domestic resource mobilization, and exports.
47.       As regards agriculture, the program addresses both the medium-
term need of obtaining the largest possible output from existing investments,
technology and institutions, and the longer-term objective of expanding
investment and strengthening the institutional base for agricultural develop-
ment. More specifically, it contains the following principal elements:
(a) It will be Government policy so to price agricultural crops
in relation to fertilizer that farmers will have adequate incentive to apply
fertilizer in accordance with the Plan objective of increasing its use to
650,000 tons in 1977 and one million tons in 1981 (an annual rate of increase
of 14%). Crop and fertilizer prices will be currently and regularly reviewed
from this standpoint, and in particular the 1977 wheat price to be announced
in September, 1976, will be determined accordingly.
(b) Improvements will be made in supporting services to farmers,
including extension, credit and water management. The extension services
will be re-organized and expanded. In particular, a comprehensive agricul-
tural extension project based on the recommendations of a joint FAO/IBRD
Mission will be started. Special mobile extension staff will be attached
to the cotton research institute to provide a stronger linkage between the
research workers and the farmers. Steps will be taken to increase the volume
of agricultural credit from about Rs. 1,000 million in FY 1975 to Rs. 1,870
million in FY 1977. A beginning will be made with a Water Management Program
for which Rs. 14 million are to be provided next year.
(c) Allocations in the development budget for agriculture will be
increased by 20% over the level of FY1976 of Rs. 2,600 million and more
financial and administrative resources will be devoted to the development
of public and private groundwater development. Every effort will be made



- 13 -
to strengthen the capacity of the agencies concerned with agriculture and
water development to enable them effectively to administer in FY 1978 a
development program equivalent to 20% of the Annual Development Plan.
(d) Arrangements will be made with the provincial governments to
ensure that the irrigation system, including both canals and water-courses,
is properly maintainecl. Special grants will be provided to provinces to
ensure that over and above ordinary maintenance special efforts are made to
rectify past deficiencies in maintenance of the irrigation system.
(e) In line with the objective of increasing the production of
cotton, a first step will be taken towards narrowing and ultimately eliminating
the differential in the price of raw cottcn between the domestic and inter-
national markets. At the same time, a program will be launched to improve the
efficiency of the text:ile manufacturing industry, and in particular the yarn
industry.
48.       As regards the mobilisation of domestic resources, the program
contains:
(a) Measures to ensure that public sector enterprises, which are
presently earning a pre-tax return of only 7% on capital employed, collectively
earn a pre-tax profit of 20-30% in the next several years. Where earnings
are less than this target, studies will be made to identify the causes and,
if necessary, price adjustments will be made.
(b) Actions designed to ensure that public savings reach at least
2% of GDP during FY 1977, as against negative savings of nearly 1% of GDP
in FY 1975. To meet this target the Government's intentions include not only
a substantially reduced rate of growth of current expenditure but also a
number of specific actions which, together with measures already taken,
are expected to have a combined budgetary effect in FY 1977 of Rs. 2 - 3 billion
which is estimated to be needed to raise public savings to 2% of GDP. The
specific intentions include a significant reduction in subsidies on consumption
goods; higher prices over a wide range of public services; increased tax rates
and additional taxes; and improvements in the efficiency and profits of public
enterprises. In addit:ion, a renewed effort is to-be made to enforce existing
laws and regulations with a view to increasing revenue collections. The threshold
for liability for income tax will not be increased during the next two years.
The Government intends to monitor public financial performance closely and,
at mid-year, to review the budget and make adjustments as necessary, if either
expenditures or revenues are inconsistent with these targets.
(c) Measures to increase the volume of private savings. In October,
1975, the minimum interest rates on savings and fixed term deposits were
increased; these-rates now vary between 6.5% and 11.75%. Interest rates in
FY1977 will be maintained so that the bulk of these deposits earn interest
at a rate significantly above the rate of inflation, which is now running at
about 5% per year.



- 14 -
49.       As regards exports, a program of incentives and other promotion
measures will be introduced. To this end it is intended:
(a) apart from providing stronger incentives for cotton, to
remove export prohibitions on certain agricultural products for which a
promising market appears to exist in the Middle East;
(b) to provide increased credit facilities for exports and to
extend the export credit guarantee scheme to foster exports by the
engineering goods industries and of non-traditional items;
(c) to take special administrative measures to ensure that
effective use is made of the general system of preferences provided by
developed countries;
(d) to establish a special unit under a Commissioner for
Promoting Exports to Middle East Markets.
50.       Such actions with respect to exports are to be complemented by
measures that will selectively raise the effective cost of imports to
Pakistan's importers. Altogether, the immediate objective is to keep the
deficit on the current account of the balance of payments (excluding the
amount financed by project assistance) about US$100 million below the level
of FY1976. Performance against this objective will be reviewed at mid-year,
and, if necessary, further action will be taken at that time.
51.       Taken as a package, the Government's program for FY1977, as
outlined above, constitutes a significant break with the policies followed
during the past few years, when growth of GDP barely kept pace with the
increase in population and Pakistan became dependent on external assistance
for the financing of 85% of its public development outlays and 70% of its fixed
investment. Clearly, the program by itself will not provide the solution to
the country's economic problems, which are structural in nature. However,
seen against the Government's commitment to the objectives set out in the
Planning Commission's draft of the Fifth Five-Year Plan, it points the way
towards a solution over the next several years. To demonstrate this commit-
ment, the Government in March raised the prices of several goods and services
provided by public enterprises - including natural gas, electric power and
domestic air services - which, together are estimated to increase revenues
accruing to the public sector by Rs 730 million, equivalent to 0.7% of GDP
in a full year.
52.       Provision of program assistance in the current circumstances is
justified not only with respect to the progress being made in the preparation
of a sensible long-term program and the introduction of a significant initial
package of measures, but also the immediate needs of the economy. According to
present estimates Pakistan will need in FY 1977 external financing in the amount



-15 -
of nearly US$1.5 billion,. Drawings from the pipeline of project and non-
project aid will provide US$800 million towards this total requirement,
leaving an unfinanced balance of US$700 million. Assuming that short-term
credits, use of reserves., and direct investment will provide US$400 million,
there remains a gap of about $300 million which must be met from new commit-
ments of official external assistance in FY1977. OPEC countries as a group
are gradually reducing their aid commitments as their own needs for foreign
exchange increase. In a(ldition, they have increasingly turned toward project
lending, so that there is little possibility of this gap being covered by
additional rapidly disbursing financing from this source. Pakistan will also
look to the IMF for further-assistance. An IMF mission is currently in the
field to assess the country's eligibility for compensatory financing. Beyond
that, Pakistan may want to approach the IMF for a further drawing on its
credit tranches. Although its outstanding drawings already put Pakistan into
the third credit tranche, the program on which the Government has decided to
embark should lend considerable strength to such a request. However, consider-
ing the long-term nature of Pakistan's economic problems, prudence would argue
for using such funds as maay be available from the IMF as a contingency against
presently unforeseen developments rather than as a means of financing the
basic deficit in the balance of payments as currently projected.
53.       Against this background, the purpose of the proposed program
credit would be to assist. the Government, by providing exchange to finance
imports not covered by project assistance, in giving effect during the
next year to the objective of accelerating growth, particularly in the
agricultural sector,which as pointed out above is central to resolving
Pakistan's economic problems. If the need for such imports consistent with this
objective were not met, the Government would face two alternative courses of
action, neither one of which would provide a viable solution: It could borrow
additional funds from non-official sources and on correspondingly hard terms,
or it could reduce its development program and associated imports. The first
alternative would not be a viable solution because it would exacerbate the external
debt situation which is already difficult. It is somewhat more complicated
to assess the likely effects of a reduction in the development program.
However, the basic fact Is that commitments relating to the on-going investment
program, particularly the large new industrial plants and ancillary works now
under construction, will be at their peak next year and will absorb the bulk,
if not all, of the exchange resources presently in sight. Thus, the Government's
room for maneuvre, in respect of the development program and associated
imports, is virtually limited to activities that are new or slated for
significant expansion. Such activities are essentially those that are at the
core of the new strategy, i.e. in agricultural inputs, irrigation, and agri-



- 16 -
cultural supporting services. By extending a program credit now, the Bank would
add resources at the margin that are critical to the Government's ability to
make a start in FY1977 in putting into effect the strategy embodied in its
long-term program.
54.       In parallel with such support and in line with the longer-term
needs of the agricultural sector for larger investment and stronger institutions,
the Bank's current program is designed to increase considerably the proportion
of its total lending to Pakistan going to agriculture. An irrlgation and
drainage as well as a livestock project are in an advanced state of preparation.
A salinity control andrehabilitation project is scheduled for appraisal in the
near future. Other projects in the program directly or indirectly related to
agriculture include education, further irrigation and drainage, agricultural credit
and research and extension.



- 17 -
VI. USE OF THE CREDIT AND ADMINISTRATIVE ARRANGEMENTS
55.       The proposed credit would be used to finance part of the imports
required in FY77 by a wide range of agricultural and industrial users. The
list of categories of goods to be financed out of the credit is included in
the Project Summary in Annex III. It is very similar to the list used for
the previous program credit (Credit 396-PAK). Fertilizer imports have not
been included since, provided the total amount of exchange available for
imports is adequate, arrangements for their financing can readily be made
through other sources, including bilateral assistance programs.
56.       Most of the imports to be financed by the proposed credit would
be direct imports by private firms through normal commercial channels. The
Trading Corporation of Pakistan (TCP), a state corporation, is the designated
importer of a limited rumber of items on which economies can be secured by
importing in bulk. As in the case of the last program credit, the
Government has agreed that goods procured by TCP out of the proposed credit
would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding. Indus-
trial users of these imLports would be charged TCP's actual import costs plus a
service fee ranging frcm 2 to 4%, depending on the size of their purchases.
57.       For the time being, Pakistan is continuing to allow Commonwealth
preferences on a limited number of items. However, in the case of purchases
by TCP, tenders would be evaluated on the basis of c.i.f. prices, so that
tariff preferences would not be taken into account.
58.       The credit would provide reimbursement for the c.i.f. cost of
qualifying imports with the exception that, for administrative convenience,
qualifying imports costing less than $5,000 would be ineligible. There would
be no retroactive financing, but goods imported under licenses issued before
the date of the credit, and paid for after the date of signing, would be
eligible for reimbursement.   The State Bank of Pakistan would be responsible
for collecting, through nominated banks, invoices, evidence of shipment and
evidence that the supplier has received payment. Such evidence would be
forwarded to the Bank in support of withdrawal applications. The State Bank
would also provide a certification in each case that the goods had been
supplied from member countries of the Bank or from Switzerland, and that they
had not been financed already by any bilateral source or by another interna-
tional development finance institution. The credit should be disbursed within
twelve months.
59.       The local currency counterpart generated by the program credit
will be deposited in a special account in the State Bank of Pakistan to be
utilized by the Government of Pakistan for financing expenditures under its
Annual Development Plan (Section 3.02 of the Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
VII. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
VIII. RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 26, 1976



ANNEX I
Page I of I pages
YAStE Oft
PAKISTAN- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU Kilt)                    ...........I.............
---------------                        ~~~~~PAKISTAN                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES CL970)
TOTAL        801.9                                          MOST ACCENT
AORIC.       213.9                         1960        1 970   ESTIMATE            INDIA           THANILANI        TURKETY4
GNP PER CAPITA CUSS)                          500         100          300100                            2  0.        450
POPULATION AND ViTAL STATISTICS
..   . .  . . .  . . .  . . .  . .
PaPIILATION (MIDYVR. MILLION)               45.6         60.6         66.2                538.1         36.3         35.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                            57.0         75.0a        82.0                168.0         71.0         45.0
PER SQUARE KM. 10010.     LAND              ...                    272.0                  .
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH MATE PER THOUSAND             46.0 4!_     51.0        6.8.0                 38.0         43.0         38.0 aLA
CRUJDE DEAtH RATE PER THOUSAND            17.0 4ub     18.0         17.0                 16.0         10.0         1 3.0 
I'AVAHT M4ORTALITY SKTE I/THOU)          362.0 ll,       ..;                           ISO")0         60.0       v45.0
LIrE EXPECTANCY At BIRTH (YRS)              ..         4.          50.1o                 50.0         19. 0        55.0 lb
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    3.2          5.7          3.6                  2.9          3.2          z.6 7t-.
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (g)
TOTAL                                      2.3          2.9          2.9                  2.3          3.1t         2.5
URBAN                                      5.0          6.0           ..4.0                            3.-7         4.5
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)               23.0         27.0            ..20.0                         13.0          31.2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0To 14 TEARS                            4?.DZa~      430.                              42.0         45.0        41.8
15 To 64 TEAKS                            52:0 716d e 53. 0           ..55.0                          52.0        53.9
65 TEARS AND ONER                              /a.0L    4.0           ..3.0                            3.0           3
AGE DEPENDENCT RATIO                          0.9 /a      0.9            ..0.8                           0.9          0.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                     I.87Z.t     1.6/a         ..1.2 /a                         1.2          3.3 /c
PAMILT PLANNINGO
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOGU)               ...                        .11306.0                      Li60.0      &e'.0od
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOMEN)                   ...                       ...                            10.0          8.2
E"PALOYMEI4T
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)             13000.0      18000.0      18500.0            2210o0.z0      16700lO.0   145o0.oLt.
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE CI)              59.0         58.0         57.0                 71.0         7 9.0.       61.0
UNEMPLOYED (l OF 1880K     FaRCE)              ...                       .3.DLE                           ..           .0e
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
z Or PRIVATE_ INCOME RECI0 9Y-
HIGHEST   St oF H{usriD8LDs               20.3/        17.8         17.-3                25.0/d.        ...6
HIGHEST 20ZOF     ATJkOWA.L                            41.8         41.5                 55:1/d                     06
LOWSET 201 Of HOUSXIHGLfl                  8:&           .0         a8.4                  471                        .9
LOWEST 400 Or HIJISEHLDS00z                            20.2         20.6                 13. 13
DISTR1NUTION OF LAkND OWNERSHIP
t OWNED tWY TOP Ldt aF OWNERS               46.2            ..                                ..                     5 3.0
I OWNED AT SMALLEST 101 OWlNEKS              0.4           ......0.9
HEALTH AND NUTRItION
POPUALATION PER PHYSICIAN                 74 50.0T     380.0   b        ..4800.0                      7970e.0      2220.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            i485 O.07j    7450.0&           .               5010.0      72tr:0.La     E668O.0 
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED               z070.0J      1640.0            ..1620.0                      850. 0       4.90.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES   t' OF REQUIREMENTS)            84.0         99.0         93.0                 93.0        105.0       110.0
PROTEIN (GAMS PER DAY)                    55.0         59.0         56.0                 53.0         52.0o        78.0
DOF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             t3.O/a.k     1A.0           ..16.0                          11.0 /   ~   22.3
DEATH RATE ('THOU) AGES 1-4                    ...                       .                    .                       5.0 /b
EDUJCA TION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                 ~~3.3.0/2    440/T. 9.0                                     80.0        11I.0
SCNAYSCHOOL                         11.05I       1 6..0         ..d                28.0        11,3.0        28.0
TEARS Of SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                  t0oLA e      10.0         I .  0.0 A.12.0                   12. 0       1 1.0
WOcArIONAL I NRGLAMENT
CX OF SECONDARY)                           1.0          1. 0         1.0                  6.-0 L      Al1:.0       1 .
ADULT LITERACY RATE Cl)                     1A.0&           ..         9.0                    ...55.0 
HOUSING
PERSONS PE    OM(AVERAGE]                    i.i/a         ....i.                                         t. .9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER CI .Z..                                                                        .                       64.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITT
(l OF ALL OWFL. INGS)                       ...                        ..                                .        41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (1)                          ...                        ..                                .         18.0
CONSUMPTION
RADOI  RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)               6.0        14.0            ..21.0                         78.0         88.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU Pop)                 1.0         3.0          3.0                  1.0          5. 0         4.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)                iso&        Oa. O4       1154.0               111.0        12 0.0       264.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                    0.a.'                     03                   0.3          1a00I
SEE NOTES AND DElItNITIONS OH REVE:RSE



ANNul I
Page~ 2 of L ptIO-
oieotherwise noted, dais for 1960 refer is soy Year between 1959 sod 1961, for 1970 betwee n 1960 sod 1970, nod for Moot Recent Entinate betweoo
1971 sod 1973.
-*  TArby has been selected as n sobjective csutry for Pakistan siooe the natural renooroen, agrlcltural basin anod econonicolly efficient prodoc-
tEen and ine-tceot progrean are likely to ho s.lellr to both ootie         Moreover, Trkbey aut Pakistan have similar religion and culitmral bock-
grounds, with eay of the ease nodal and cultor-l barriers to endeevti-tion with Turkey being soeshat shoed in thide preceno.
PAKISTAN    1960    /.  Tholodes data for Bnoglsdeeh;     ab  1962;   Ag   1962465;     d  keloiding frantier regions;    ~g15-59 years sod 60 yearn
sod evr r-pe-ti-nly;       af Ratio of popuation under 5 and 60 sod ovr to total labor force;        ZS 1963-61.;   /h Regis-
tered, not all practicing in the .o.ntry;    /I   no1odee sidwive;      Z,) Innl.idg diopennorles;     ak  1960-62;
/I One throogh fiv- (pnoory) and sin thbr.och tan (necondary);      Is  Up to etlnain(10th grade);           /.  5 Yearn and ove,,
t.he ability to read cbh -oderetadiog a ebort statemnt so evry-day life in soy 1anguoge;        /.  OnoDeate .t  to electrIcity
gen.erated, melody otatio 050 anod Iroil    a      -lses;   /p Figure does not inolods inport by iand.
1070    AIsRatio nf pop1atien under 15 ned 65 and o-vr to total labor force;      jb Registered, not ali pactic ing Isthe coutry;
~TDate for Bsoladeeb included;       /d  One through five (prie..ry) nod ci. thr-gh ten (necnda.);.aUp'to untrlcoltiu
- (10th grade);    /f  Onto relote to elec.tricity generated, inclode ntaito  use and troonielse..
COST inoCEff E.STIATE, /. Up to estricolotion (10th grade).
INEIA 1970A/nRatio of population coder 15 and 60 sod over to labor force to ago grop 15-59; in AlD estimate of labor forc -toi age group
15-59. IBRD report glees a figaro of 180.. ailliun base d on 1971 popoa.tios c-u.-     The difference. Ie doe to hbsoge  in the
definition of a sorber.  in the 1971 eeus persons were classified only on tbe basin of their coin octivlti-s 'Mda ied to
the  oleo     of -esrl               ..eore heo  as housecive;  in  Ragistered sppli ...tt for oork;  /d i967-68;  /. 1965.
MNILANI     1970    /.  Iccioding sidwive;     /b  196L-66;    It   Poblic .o.onI., which include technical edocatien at tbe pest-secon..dary level.
TUIRKEY     1970    A0  Onluden 17 eastern prenees;       /b  1965-67;    In   Ratio of poplation under 15 and 65 anod ever tolbhr force 15 Years and
-  cr;  d  1961  J-Jn  1971, 86 pr..not, being lIn,;   /. 15 yeare and ove, excludes oe,pleyed;        af Rgieterd only;
I niposable Sicne;-    A1  looludiog ossistant nur-e and    ldeive;     Lai 1961-66;    ZI Person   sic yearn old enod cor who
tell the ce-mc tobero that they en read and write..
RS, Apr15 26, 1976
iboNrIlolNI OP SOCtIA INDICATORS
:d  %.thou ke2)                                                                 P=eltio no scen er            - PopulAtioc dIiAded by somber nf prattle-
TetrT     urilsc ...ic ..ens,prtstong land ores end usisod  stor-.                 to  elssdfesl graos           ores, "-trained" or "esrtifited"aren
to. -_Most reasnt estuent of egricoltaral area%ud temporaI-ly or per-                and aclayperesal with troaiing or -nprt.cs..
masently for crops, potstres, esket & kithben gardens or ts lie f shea.                            hasi hal, jf i~ be  -Population divined by Octber of bosp.ta1
Thhdsvalabeinsblc sd privte general sod specialized hospital
GPp-gu       (USpj) - GNP per capita setinate  at eskbt prices, cabs-                sod rehabilittotion ceters; excludes noosing bone   sod astabllelenta
coe  yst  o-vericn eethod as World Monk Atlas (1972-74 basis),                 for cutdta1 and preventiv- care.
Pe Rant .sel oftlrasi      frooreet)-Cepotsr            rneog
fonlatio 00viastistlIc                                                                  sqoivlsot of   st food  oppl'-iss  iolabrle IN - conr -prcpit    par
Peueie(id-er tl;liso) 3-cRe of July first; If net sallsbls, s-eroge              day; avilable sopplies comprise dometic srodntlon, Imotsen
of two end-year setinatee.                                      en~~~~aport., scs changee in stock; net oupis  toaeanea feed,sens
quantities used An fend procensing sod lessen In distribtion; re-
Popolatiln dnity - p r efarq he - Mid-year ppoistien per sqcre bile-                    qotremets wer estinted by FAO base d on phyeiological needs for
ene a10bcine)o     os    ro                                                     norma activity and health ....eldertg envirm   neta1 temperature,
Psp.lotisn density - oor  kersh    of con, land - C-meutd so above for                 body -sighte, age sod sea distrihoti-n of pspultion, cOalloid
agrieNtarsI Iand only.                                                                10% for waste at kho-shld level.
Peresitasopl ofprtei  (rsn nr"ay    - Pro .isic oatoot of per
Pitol statistics                                                 capi~~~~~~~ftant spi  ffodprdy;ntnp            of fend is defined a
Grade bithsratstc per teced -Ann,al lIce birtb. per thouasnd of old-                    abase; reqoir    tent  for all coutri.e entbliehed by U11Dh M-oeno
year popo L.tse      IVct  fiv-yea  c-gage  ending is 1960, 19170 and                 Research Services proWd   for a nini-n alouc        f 60 gem   of total
19,75 for dev-lspt  ecanurla.                                                         preteEn per day, and 20 gras  of -nua end polce pratein, of which 10
Crode death rats nor thesesd - Annual deathe poe tnousod of eid-yesr                    gray oh-Id he asSel W.tisi; these standards are lowe       than thase
popula tion; _suoly fiv-year averages sniing in 1960, 1970 antI 1975                  of 75 gram  of total pretein and 23 gras  of animal pratein   an sose--
for developing contri.ie.                                                             age fee the  ,erld, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food Surey.
Infant entohty rate (/tho) -AnenaI deatho of inafnts under ens year                   Per .enit. ratein scenl   free  nioli end nolan - Proteuc supply of food
of age pee theneend lIce  birthe.                                                     derived fr-m anbal sod poises In gras    per day.
Lif -g  t_  2tbirth    5)- Av-regs tnmer of year     f life reein-               Dtm.Uthou) a,,14 - Annua deatho per thoend in age group
lgat birth; imuljf      .yn   averages -dnMg in 1960, 1970 and                      liIFyears, to children in this age gocop; soggnted as an indIcator
19,75 foe developing  osneie                                                           f enlotritien.
r ti.rate - Averge cober f live dsoghtesam       woe    ill
rtoiFib6r     lI-rrdtnties period if she      aperiencen present age-             Fdoeatis
noanifte fortuity rates; aseally fies-year -avrages ending in 1960,                 AJustd nr--    so rtio -Ei arery      hbel-  Rmlltn      of all gage  as
19,70 and 1975 for develping eosetsiehes                                              pecnag      fpi        cho-g         ppltIon;  e-2odes chldren aged
Peo,olatinn go-oth rate (%) - teta1 - Ceepsund ennual grseth rates of old-              6-fl year  hot adjusted foe differet length. of prionoy educatlan;
pane psplatton foe 1950-60,   90-70, and 1960 te meet reneat year.                    for cosnhtras eith eniv-rsi edeation, ensalumt nay -aced 100%
Poouitiotinerwbat      C% ubn        -Otpoted like geceth rats of tetal                 eince some pupils are bel1w or above the official nchool age.
ppat,Ie;different deftationu, of ceb.e areas eny    ffent cMVpar-                Adjasted en-ebomt ratio - secondary enhel - Compotd an above; nec-
bility of data eong   -oetrise.                                                       odary sdsotisn raqoires at least fea    yeare of approvd primry
Urb-  ti-  % of   t,j)- Motto of urban to total pepolatie; dif-                 inatteentiom; provides gemnro1, eoadnal or teshke     training inste--
fsethlitin_ofiirbae area    nay affect campRability of data                    tisos fee pupils. of 12 to 17 years of age; correspendence eor-se are
Im     trinon                                                                      generally senclded.
Ag.yApRr.oo&) - hildeen (0-11. yearn), working-age (1-6. years),               Years oseaIho       rvded(rst and scond levels) - Total yearn of
and 5s rd I :;ah end seer) as percentages of aid-year popletion.               skeigat seenar          lee,vctonl instetaton may be partlally
A   Md_ratio   - Rtie of popolatise ondee 15 snd 65 and ove  to                 or esplstely   seidod.
kAKenYAesI5bcgh 61.                                                          Vcteaenal          nt; .(% af senond7.y) - Voostisna  institotios ioclde
Eeo.edic dependency  Mti    -  i     fposol. on under 15 and 65 and over                technica,ido. l       orehr prggr       ekieb operate independently
to the laboe ferns in a.ge  ol  of 15-61. year.                                       or as depertamts of secendasy inetitotisce.
PFamily nI_niee-seet        (Cooa-tl-s. thea) - OC-nstive somber of                   A4.qal,ij5pgyIt.Al         itrato adulte (able te read sod write)a
aucepinr  of birth-costrol dvIess under uspinen of     atioma1 fomily                 pretg       ttaist pepolation aged 15 yeses sodovr
planning program since ieceptien.
Paeidly Plani,u  asea   5% ofcerisdseen         Percetagen  afomried
eseof hbl-ertgae(14.yar)seue birth-central de-                                  Peron   par roos (.avemee) - Averae mashe of perss      per room is en-
vine  to oil mxarried seme  in sam  age grop.                                         ..pied conoventional dwelling  in urban arena; dwsllings eenlu   men
permanent stretore   end unsen-pied pasta.
m                                                          0-up~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~noisd dam  eg Psthtt ipe d wa:te ()u - Onuie  coovetin-l
falallabar force (thousand) - Ra--nically antios pereoes, incoding                      dwellings in       adra'iaes         iho   insided sountside piped
armd forcess and ensoployed lhot enloing1 bousoive, todents, eta.;                    water facilitiesas. percetage of ali occupied dwellings.
deioitno     t vriou     onre      r   o   oprbe                                      cesi     lentricity (% of ail1 d-ellings) - Conoentisal    wlig
tbrfercea in aerinolture (%) - Agrioult,rai labor force (in frmiong,                 subh ebetricity In living quarter sea Percent of total dwellings,
frety, bootin   and fishing) an prerentage of total labor force,                    in urban and rurl areas.
of abo   f        Uns   - .. pleyd ar eusually defined as pesoens      Rural deflnseested to Ibent~riity M%          - Computed osabov   for
ar  es     tgis take a job, oct of a Job enagiven day,                     rrld      log     ny
remained cut of a Job, end seeking seek for a seciofied edocimo
period net exceding one week; may oct be comparable between eun-                    Cona,Us'tisn
tisdoe to different definitious of uneployed and enurce of data,                 Rai      M   r     mt.            l  types of reneleam for radio bread-
eg,employment office  tatiettes, s.-PIe  -reys, nompulosY unme-                   seantst gnral pblic per thousand of pepuiatien; enniides umli-
ploymeet insurnce.                                                                    nensed receivers in coutries and in year   ten   egetratiom   e radio
sets wsnt affent; data fee renet years ma nut be osWearabla slums
Incom  dItrIbotis   - Percentage ef private income (both in oash and                    mast countries abolished lienosing.
kind) rect_d b    ricebst 5%, riohwet 20%1, psoreat o0%, sod poorest                fu    gE,A      Sjnpp)-Passenger cars enpieeter ear                 sa-t-
h.0-of hoss 1ods.                                                                 to-esta         iti6u          nlodesatlaos        hearee  and mili-
Nary vehicles.
Distribotion ofladm     cesi - Percentages of land -s,,d by evaIth-                   ElwtArNia  jWh/ss per c)-Annua coossoPti-n of indoatria, uno-
iset 10% end pooest 10% of lendnooses.  ~iid(fli60ItiS~j~intm                              lectricity in kilowatt bours pe   capita;
gemralily based on prodnotde  data, without aflnane    for lossen in
Health end Notriti.n                                                                    grid. hot all1wing for louputo and exportm of electricity.
Populatiomno chsiia      -Poultien divided by comber of practicing                      emrist (he/yr ear cap) - Per capita   onoa1 osnauapatia. Is kcilogrm
physicianquliie      frmamdinal scheol at univerity Isvj.                             estietad from doMeatid  prodat3uen pies net laqpcrto of meseprit.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pageS
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in millions of U.S. Dllars)
Actual     -                 Proiected               1973-     1975-     1976-     1981-
1973      1971.     1975      1976      1977      1981       1975      1976      1981      1986      .1975        1976        1981
At 197!- Prices. and Exchange Rates                   Average Annua    Growth Rates                A. Pertoot of GUY
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross D .oestic Product                      10289     1059':    10744     11159     12040     15211        2.2       3.9       6.4       6.7      100. 0     101.3        102.0
Ga-s fro- Terms of Trade (7182                           230       -        -142      - 69     -30           .         .         .
Gross Dom,estic Incom                        10471     1082':    1074.4    11017     11971     14908        1.3       2.5       6.3       6.8      100.G      100.0        100.0
loports ioci. NFS                             1611      200'      2607      2551      2730      3056      27.5     - 2.1       3.7       5.1        24.3       23.2        20.5
inports iocl. (ioport capacity)               1674      1461.     1250      1343      1568      2255     -13.6        7.4      10.9       8.5       11.6       12.2         15.1
Ecocurce Gap         + 63        547      1357      1208      1162      ~~~~        ~  ~~~~~~~801  . -10.9  - 7.6  - 8.4    12.7       11.0         5.4
Consuption Expenditures                       8971      9792,    10138     10568     11103     13318        6.3       4.2       4.7       6.2      914.4       95.9         89.3
Investoent Eap. (ci-.. stocks)                1436      1371.     1962      1658      2029      2391      16.8     -15.5        7.6       6.3       18.3       15.0         16.0
Domestic Savings                              1318       80%,      606       449       868      1590     -32.2     -25.9       28.8      11.4        5.6        4.1         10.7
Nat-n.1l Savings                              1365       864       697       587      1026      1791     -28.5     -15.8       25.0      11.0        6.5        5.3         12.0
MERCHANDISE TBADE                                      Annuzl Data at Current Prices                       Average Annua    Growth Rates             As Pece.nt of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                               411       621       822       877      1031      1527      41.4       6.7      11.8      11.4        315.2      37.7        39.2
Intermediate Goods (earl, fuels)            571       771;      538       541       662       999     - 3.0       0.6      13.0      13.1       2!3.1       23.3        23.7
of which, fertilisers                   90        92       102        40         79        -        6.3    -60.8        -         -          4.4         1.7         -
P0L                                          63       231;      349       378       464       788     135.5       8.3      15.8      14.6        15.0       16.3        20.2
Co...suption Gmeds                          325       451'      623       529       505       587      38.5     -15.1       2.1       9.0        26.7       22.8        15.1
Total Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)         1370      2083l     2332      2325      2662      3893      30.5     - 0.3      10.8       12.2      10 0. 0    1_00. 0     100.0
Raw Cotton                                  109        3b       159       i11        94        88      20.6     -30.2      -4.5     -22.0        16.3       10.2         3.1
Cotton Yarn                                 186       18$.       86       144       145       296     -32.0      67.4      15.5      16.2         8.8       13.3        10.5
Cotton Cloth                                120       14$       133       146       259       532       5.3       9.8      29.5      17.6        13.6       13.5        18.9
Elce                                        113       212       233       154       311       424      43.8     -33.9      22.5      14.3        73.8       14.2        15.1
F-rtilfcors                                 -          -         -         -         -        174        -         -         -       -.                                   .
Tothlers   hnieEpot            fb           280       450       367       53        618      1300      14.5      44.4      19.7      19.9        317.5      48.8        46.2
Total Merchandie Exports (foh)   808      1021       978      1085      1427      2814      10.0      10.9      21.0       16.6      1(10.0    -100.0       100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                                          Average 1975 = 100
Export Price Index                         64.9     100.C     100.0      98.6     104.8     129.0      24.2      -1.4       5.5       8.2
Import Price Index                         57.8      78.6     100.0     104.7     111.0     150.0      31.5       4.7       7.5       7.2
Tone   of Trade                           112.3     127.2     100.0      94.2      94.4      86.0    -  5.5      -5.8      -1.7       0.9
Export Volumse Isdex                      127.3     104.1     100.0     112.5     139.2     223.1    - 11.5      12.5      14.7       7.7
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                           Annal Oats at 1975 Prices and Exchange Rates              Aversge Annual Growth Rates               As Percent of Total
Agriculture                                3328      3374      3306      3416      3636      4251     - 0.3       3.3       4.5        5.2       33.0       32.8        29.9
Manufacturing                              1544a     1642      1693      1776      1941      2708       4.7       4.9       8.8       7.8        16.9       17.0        19.1
Other Sectors                              4477      4761      5027      5227      5665      7243       6.0       4.0       6.8        7.1       50.1       50.2        51.0
Total                                      T939      9 778    1002-6    104719    112_42    14-20-2      3.6      3.9       4.8        6.7      100).0     100.0       10 0.0-
PUBLIC FINANCE                                   Annual Data at 1975 Prices and Exchange Rates            Average Annual Growth Rates               As Percent of COP
(Central Gover-aot) 
Current Receipts                           1570      1752      1686      1823       .         ..        3.6       8.1        .         ..        15.7       16.3
Current Expoditure-                        1637      1818.     1985      1970       .         ..       10.1     - 0.8        .         ..        16.5       17.7
Budgetary Savings                          - 67      - 66     - 299     - 122                  .         .                   .         ..        -.8        -.
Other Public Sector                         ..         .2. .8.                                 .                                                             1 .  4
Public Doctor Investment                    642       792      1109      120        .          .       31.4      11.8        .         ..        10".3      11.1
CURRErT EXPENDITURE DETrAILS                             Actual Dat                       DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR            At 1975 Prices and Exchange Rates           % of Total
(As  TtilCrrno        xpo.)17                         1974      1975      1976           INVESTMENT PROGRAM                 1973      1974      1975     .1976           1973-76
Education                        6.9       6.4       7.8       8.3              Social-4Doctors7100                       135      1T88        233-             77
Other Social Services                      12.5      18.9      18.1      11.4              AgriculSetures/6                           25        28        27528.
Agriculture                     ~~~~      ~~~~3.2  2.9  4.8    5.6              Industry & Mising                 58       112       192       302             17.5
Other Economic S-r--c--                     3.6       2.9       2.8       3.3              Power                             66       114       154       184             14.2
Defense                                    52.6      41.4      39.8      41.5              Transp. & Cosmnunicatisns        118       159       216       215             18.6
Administration                              9.4       8.5       7.0       7.1              Other                             18        23        70        48              4.2
Other 3/                                   11.8      19.0      19.7      22.8              Total Expenditures              64         79       13        15               0.
Total CFurrent Expenditures               100.0     100.0     100.058100.0
PIHANCING
Psablic Sector Savings V           1s     - 34     - 101        92            - 2.4
Domestic Borrowing               189       266       241       138             22.0
Foreign Borrowing                504       561       969      1010             80.4
Total Financing                  642       793      1109      1240            100.0
Note:   All years given in thin rahle refer to the Pakistani fiscal year July 1I          June 30.    The fiscal year is identified hy the calendar year in which it ends.
1/    Csnsolidated federal xand provincial gcwernumeot.
2/     Including expeoditure on the Tarbela Dam project.
3/     Includes interest pyments.
4/     Adjusted for investenot In current hudget, transfers of surpluses          and self-financing hy pubhic sector.
South Asia Department
April 15, 1976.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 page
PAKISTAN BALANCE OP PAYMENT. EXTERNAL. ASEISTANCE AND DEBT
(    Lont   imillions of U.S. dollars at curret pric.).
If                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Avg. Annual
Actosl                             Estimated                                  Pjeted                                        Gnt6t Date
~1971/72      1972/73        1973/ 74      1974/75         1975/76        1976/77        1977/7        197979         1979/80       198/1          1975/76-80/81
SU10KARY BALANCE OP PAYMENTS
Eoportt  (tool. NFS)                         686           903          1,208         1,251           1,416          1,759          2,118         2,508          2,966         3,419               19.3
Inprtts (tool. 8F15                        jJ050         J_094          j_Jj          2.607          2J.690          3.062        32348           3.717         4.157          4.634               11.5
Reouc  Sloo   (X-M)                    -364          -191           -611        -1,356         -1,274          -1,303        -1,230         -1,209        -1,191         -1,215
Interest (net)                   ~~~      ~    ~~~-34  -83     -50          -101           -113            -133          -176           -242          -280           -317               23.0
Drc Inetet Enctoe (net)             -22            -19           -30           -24             .....                         .......
Wokrs   Rottlano     (grons)                 92           147           131            230            25              324           393           469            52611.
Curen    Trnf_ bet)                          ...             16            25            36             ,
Dolsoon .. Corront Accntn..t                -328          -130           -535        -125            -11_22         -=f1.2=      -1,1            -982           -919          -Sn 1
Privoto DirecttIvamc          tt
OfficialCapital Or-te (net)                   83             30            56           104             100            100            100           100            100           100
Public 94L? Loon
Dbrnmtn2/                         368           314            403         1,070             866          1,012          1.076         1,061          1,119         1,147
fReventI -23                                           -103            -88          - 144          -164            -207          -254           -355          -423           -466
Net Diobosem_tn245                                          211           315           926             702            905            822           706            696           601
Other 81.? Lone
Diaburuem-ots                             ...           ...            ...           ...              75            110            110           247            203           195
teoov..nte                                                                                             6            - 6            - S           - 6            - 5           -11
Sot Dioburs-ete .                                                                                        69             104           105           241            198           174
Capitol Trnoeecti...n .e.o.    -     .                      - 4            77           229
Choogo lo Dot OoRv.-n (-Iocreano)            -21          -148             72           -34
Actual                      Enctiacod
GRANT AND LOAN COMMIYKMES                                                                                                                            1971L72        1972/73        1973/74       1974/75
DEST ANN DES? DERVICE
Offitiol Grats & Grot-like Lo.nn               19             29            30            116          PubIlc Debt Outn. 6 DLsbursed               4,6662i/       5,0822/       6,057          6,088
Intereat on Public Debt 6/                  48             84             81           105
Pub liC 641? Loans                                                                                        Pymnn tn on Public Debt 6/                  75            114           104            144
IBRD                                                      -             60            60              Total Public Debt lee-vice                 123            198           185            249
IDA-                                                     95             53            92              Other Debt   Service (met)
Oto    latlte-l-                                         39             82            71              Tote1 Debt   lee-vice (cot                 123            1981524
C-venoeto4                                 75           555          1,064           856
Dupplie.o                                  12              5            13             9          Borden co lEport Earnings     %2
Pino.lo    lonitciosI                                      1            57            12
B-od.                                      -              -             --Public Debt lee-vice                                                  15.8           18.9          13.6           14.8
Public Loon c..e.i.                        ----Total Debt Service
Total Public 941? Loans                                           TOD + Die-oct Invent. lot.                18.6           20.7          15.8           19.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~8.6  5-8  9,:
T.-I Pbli. M&LT L-       107           724         ~~~1,359       1,206TD                  Di.tI         t   ..20
ictuol Debt Outet.ndiog onDecnber 31. 1974                 Ave-age Te-o   of Public Debt
Dishu-nd Only                     Pee-cet                     lot. us   t Pior Year IXOD                 101.8                        1.6            1.7
EXTiRNAL DIRT                                                                                                AetusZPirYnDOD1.6                                          2.4           2.0            2.4
World Buob                                        290                            6                     I8RD Debt Outn. & Dieburned                    405 -/        37   2/        405           440
1la                                               500                           11                     118D as    Public Debt O6D                    8.7            7.3            6.7           6.4
Other Molti-lacera1                                26                            1                     IBRD Debt lee-vice                            47.0          54.3           52.5          44.4
Gocr_  _cte                                     3,596                           7IBRD                         s   Public Debt Servics                38.2          27.4           28.4          17.8
SpplIrs147                                                                      3
Piacill-7     tclo                              103                            2                     ISA Debt Outs. & Disburned                    522            544~ 2/        556           639
Rods                                                                                                 IDA en    Publin Debt 04D                     11.2           10.7           9.2            9.3
Puli  Debta n.o.i.                                                             .                     IDA Debt S.Ler  .c                             2.3           4.4           4.2            5.7
Tocol Public M41? Debt                          4,662                            0IDA, an I Public Debt lee-vice                                      1.9           2.2            2.3            2.3
Other M4L? Debts
Short-toe-n Debt (diob. only)
no  pplicoblo                                                                                   otaff entimute
otvilbl. e np-rtely bst included in total                                                     I..les  chi  bslf the  msIllet onit hbow
I/ Stuff estinatna for 1971/72,
2/Tb. figuren for 1975/76 - 1977/78 include imputed dinbu--s         ots on -----nt of debt relief already agred with the Pakiste          Aid Can,neti-.
3/  lcludiug eror    ond olsoo
4/   Including cnitnets made for debt relief.
I..luclding "Bangladoob" debt eubseqo...tly trans..ferred orcat1ild.
6/Net of debt relief.
B/ uedna nu -aris5     fe-o  enpotts includiug NPIS and wo-kern1 rnittanc...    .
South Asie.   Deparcont
April 6, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of February 29, 1976)
Loan or                                                       US$ Million
Credit                                          Amount    (less cancellations)
Number   Year     Borrower       Purpose         Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
Sixty-four loans and credits
fully disbursed /a                           490.5    338.2
50     1964   Pakistan      Education          ---       8.5          0.6
548     1968    Pakistan     Tarbela
(Multipurpose)   25.0      --          12.5
590     1969    PICIC        Industrial
Development      22.0      --           1.1
621     1969    Pakistan     Western
Railway          14.5-     --           2.2
157     1969   Pakistan      Agricultural
Bank III          --      30.0           .3
177     1970   Pakistan      Industrial
Development
(IDBP)           --       18.7          2.5
206    1970    Pakistan      Engineering
Education         --       4.0          2.4
213    1970   Pakistan       Power
Distribution      --      23.0          7.3
422    1973    Pakistan      Karachi Port III    --      18.0         13.8
961    1974    Pakistan      Industrial
Investment       25.0      --          15.3
466    1974    Pakistan      Flood Rehab-
ilitation         --      35.0          2.7
988    1974    Pakarab       Multan
Fertilizer       Fertilizer      35.0       --         18.8
492    1974    Pakistan      Karachi Port IV     --       16.0        16.0
510    1974    Pakistan      Telecommuni-
cations III       --      36.0         32.8
1107    1975    SNGPL         Gas Pipeline IV    60.0      --          42.2
546    1975   Pakistan       Industrial
Development
(NDFC)            --      30.0         29.3



ANNEX II
Page 2
Loan or                                                     US$ Million
Credit                                         Amount   (less cancellations)
Number   Year    Borrower        Purpose        Bank     IDA     Undisbursed
1208    1976   Pakistan      Power
Transmis-
sion /b       (50.00)      -         (50.0)
TOTAL                                     672.0    557.4
of which has been repaid                  291.1      5.6
TOTAL now outstanding                     380.9    551.8
Amount sold                 22.3
of which has been repaid    22.3            0.0      --
Total now held by Bank
and IDA /c                                380.9    551.8
Total Undisbursed                          92.1    107.7        199.8
/a   Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly
for projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken
over by Bangladesh.
/b   Not yet effective and not included in totals.
/c   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 29, 1976)
Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor              Type of Business        Loan     Equity   Total
1958   Steel Corp. of Palc.
Limited                Rolled Steel Products     0.63      --      0.63
1959   Adamjee Industries
Limited                Textiles                  0.75      --      0.75
1962   Ismail Cement
1965   Industries Limited                               5.25      0.42    5.67
1963-
1969-                         Development
1975   PICIC                  Financing                  --       0.52    0.52
1965   Crescent Jute
Products               Textiles                  1.95      --      1.95
1965   Packages Limited       Paper Products            2.31      0.84    3.15
1967   Pakistan Paper
Corp. Limited          Paper                     3.20      2.02    5.22
1969   Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.         Fertilizers               1.00     2.92     3.92
1969   Karnapuli Paper
Mills Limited          Pulp and Paper            5.60      0.63    6.23
Total Gross Commitments                         20.69      7.35   28.04
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                     16.20     0.90    17.10
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                4.49      6.45   10.94



ANNEX II
Page 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Credit No. 50        Education:  US$8.5 Million Credit of March 25, 1964;
Effective Date: August 14, 1964; Closing Date: June 30,
1976
Project implementation, originally scheduled for four years has
been delayed by eight years, due to cumbersome administrative procedures,
wars, floods, labor unrest and price escalation. Despite delays and cost
inflation, the total project cost in US dollars will be within the appraisal
estimate because of the devaluation of the Pakistan rupee in 1972. Civil
works are 95% completed; equipment procurement is also virtually completed
except for the Polytechnical Institutes at Sind. The technical assistance
program has been completed. Disbursements to date amount to 92% of the Credit
and are likely to amount to 98% by June 30, 1976, the final Closing Date.
Loan No. 548         Tarbela Dam:  US$25.0 Million Loan of July 10, 1968;
Effective Date: August 2, 1968; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
The Loan is intended for residual financing, and disbursements
began in March 1975. On September 29, 1973, the Indus River was diverted
through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage -- the construction
of the closure section of the dam -- to be undertaken. By June 30, 1974,
the main embankment had been completed to full height, and the first
impoundment began on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficulties
were encountered in the operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one
of the tunnels necessitated the emptying of the reservoir, in the course
of which further damage was incurred. A program of remedial works is
nearing completion. Agreement was reached with the parties to the Indus
Basin and Tarbela Development Fund Agreements whereby special contributions
were made by a number of the parties and IDA (Credit 581-PAK) to help meet
the costs of the repairs and additional remedial works. Meanwhile, the
reservoir was filled to within 20 ft. of the maximum pool level in the sum-
mer of 1975 and irrigation releases have been made through the Service and
Auxiliary Spillways. Plans for filling the reservoir to maximum operating
level during the summer of 1976 have now been finalized.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX [I
Page  5
Loan No. 590         Development Finance Company - PICIC:    US$40.0 Million
Loan of March 21, 1969; Effective Date:    May 21, 1969;
Closing Date: September 30, 1976
This Loan has been fully committed. The original Closing Date
of March 31, 1974 was postponed first to September 30, 1975 and then to
September 30, 1976, the current date, to enable disbursements to be made
for the last sub-project.
Loan No. 621         Railways:  US$14.5 Million Loan of June 26, 1969; Effect-
ive Date: August 28, 1969; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
About 80% of the Loan has been committed, and it is anticipated
that the project will be virtually complete by June 1977. To provide for
reimbursement of commissioning expenses during the following year, however,
the Closing Date, formerly December 31, 1975, has been extended to June 30,
1978. The main outstanding item is construction of the first stage of a
new marshalling yard at E'ipri, near Karachi. The location of this yard
was changed twice following protracted investigations and negotiations bet-
ween various agencies and planning authorities. Consultants have modified
the design of the yard fc,r the new location, selected to reconcile urban
planning and railway marshalling objectives, and construction is underway.
While progress on improvements to the main line, which will permit removal
of speed restrictions has been rather slow, a new timetable for passenger
and goods trains was introduced in November 1975. This should help to
improve utilization of mctive power and rolling stock, especially i-reight
wagons, eventually producing large cost savings.
Credit No. 157       Agricultural Development Bank:   US$30.0 Million Credit
of June 26, 1969; Effective Date: September 23, 1969;
Closng Date: December 31, 1975
Although the Closing Date of this credit has passed, minor dis-
bursements are expected to continue into April, 1976, as the last t:ractors
ordered under the project are shipped.    The Government has requested a fur-
ther credit for ADBP and discussions are taking place concerning the measures
necessary to remedy ADBP's financial and managerial problems.
Credit No. 177       Development Finance Company - IDBP:    US$20.0 Million
Credit of February 11, 1970; Effective Date: June 25,
1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Amendments to the Credit Documents became effective on April 25,
1974.  These enabled IDBP to resume utilizing IDA funds to finance Pakistan
industry without bearing the financial risk, pending settlement of its
liabilities with respect to projects it had financed in Bangladesh. The
original Closing Date of December 31, 1974 was then postponed to December 31,
1977. The Credit has been fully allocated by IDA. Progress has been
achieved on the Bangladesh liabilities issue. The major problem remaining
is the large arrears in TDBP's portfolio and its consequent effect on liquid-
ity. The liquidity problem has been temporarily eased with borrowings from



ANNEX II
Page 6
the Government but the long-term portfolio prospects will depend mainly
on developments in the textile sector which accounts for a large portion
of IDBP's outstandings. Disbursements amounted to $18.0 million as of
March 26, 1976.
Credit No. 206       Engineering Education:   US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1970; Effective Date: July 14, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976
The project is now about 24 months behind schedule. The physical
facilities of the project are expected to be complete nine months before
the Closing Date (December 1976), except for about 15% of the equipment
purchases, which are linked to the Technical Assistance program. This
program, if implemented, will require at least two years extension of
the Closing Date because of delayed recruitment of experts. Progress in
staff development is unsatisfactory, mainly because of low staff salaries.
Suggestions for improvement have been made to the Borrower during the
supervision visit. Project costs on civil works are expected to exceed
the appraisal estimates by 85% in rupee terms, but total project costs
are unlikely to exceed the appraisal estimate of US$6.3 million due to
the 1972 devaluation of the rupee. Disbursement remains slow but is ex-
pected to improve in FY76 with the completion of the physical facilities.
Credit No. 213       Power Transmission and Distribution:    US$23.0 Million
Credit of August 13, 1970; Effective Date: December 11,
1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Implementation of the project, which had improved during the
past year, has suffered a further setback and the Closing Date has been
postponed for the second time, to June 30, 1977. The new delay is caused
by additional claims of Yugoslavian manufacturers on which negotiations
have now been completed.-
Credit No. 422-PAK Third Karachi Port: US$18.0 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The contracts for the construction of four shipping berths and
two transit sheds at Juna Bunder, and for the reconstruction of Napier
Mole Bridge were awarded, in June and October 1975 respectively, to the
same joint venture, National Construction Company (NCC) of Pakistan and
Chriastiani & Nielsen (CN) of Denmark. Site work is due to commence pre-
sently. Materials for permanent way and pipes and fittings have been
ordered, and work on operational buildings is proceeding. However, there
have been delays in appointing consultants for supervision and in com-
mencing other parts of the project, such as the proposed study of KPT's
dredging fleet. Over 90% of the Credit allocation has been committed.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Credit No. 492-PAK Fourth Karachi Port: US$16.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The four bids received for construction of the oil berth have
been reviewed and are presently under more detailed assessment by the
consultants & KPT. In view of the bids recelved, significant cost over-
runs appear likely.  Consultants have not yet been formally appointed by
KPT for preparing contract documents for dredging works and dredger pro-
curement. The credit implementation is now some 18 months behind the program
prepared at the time of appraisal. No disbursement from the Credit has been
made to date.
Loan No. 961         Industrial Investment:  US$25.0 Million Loan of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: April 3, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Loan was made to the Government to be administered by PICIC
rather than directly to PICIC pending settlement of PICIC's foreign cur-
rency liabilities with respect to projects it had financed in Bangladesh.
Progress has been made in solving that problem although some pending matters
are still under discussion with the Government. The other major problem Is
the large arrears in PICIC's portfolio and its consequent effect on liquidity.
The liquidity problem has been temporarily eased with borrowings from the
Government but the long-term portfolio prospects will depend mainly on dev-
elopments in the textile sector which accounts for a large portion of PICIC's
outstandings. Disbursements amounted to $10.7 million on March 26, 1976.
A new loan is under consideration.
Credit No. 466      Flood Rehabilitation:   US$35.0 Million Credit of
March 18, 1974; Effective Date: May 15, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
The general imaports and civil works categories of this credit have
been fully disbursed. The original Closing Date of June 30, 1975 was post-
poned one year to permil: completion of procurement of specialized spare
parts for the repair of construction and farm machinery.
Loan No. 988        Multan Fertilizer:   US$35.0 Million Loan of May 24,
1974; Effective Date: July 30, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. Work on major offsites
such as roads, railroad tracks and utilities is complete and plant construc-
tion is proceeding vigorously. Staff recruitment and training is increasing
steadily. The most likely potential problem appears to be the late delivery
of a few critical items such as heat exchangers and boilers, which could delay
startup by several months.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Credit No. 510       Third Telecommunications:   US$36.0 Million Credit of
September 12, 1974; Effective Date: October 25, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This credit is proceeding satisfactorily though still at an early
stage. Procurement action for all the main equipment items is well-advanced
Reorganization of T&T to a form more suited to its commercial-type operation,
which was an agreement of the first Telecommunications Credit and reiterated
in the Credit Agreement of 510-PAK, has not progressed. A Government ap-
pointed Committee was to have formulated by December 31, 1975, the steps
required to achieve this reorganization.
Credit No. 546       National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):    US$30.0
Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective Date: July 17,
1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
This credit was made effective on July 17, 1975. Commitments
amounted to $3.6 million and disbursements to $0.7 million on March 26, 1976.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:   US$60.0 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Engineering and procurement are on schedule, as is construction,
despite unusually heavy rains and floods during late summer. Progress on
the purification facilities is falling behind original plans. Two problems
facing the Borrower are delivery delays due to congestion at the port of
Karachi and the loss of skilled craftsmen to the Middle East. The project
is expected to be completed on time and well within the estimated cost.
No action has been reported on the government's obligation to make a
reservoir study of the Meyal field by December 31, 1975 and the Bank has
taken the matter up with the Government.
Loan No. 1208        Power Transmission:   US$50 Million Loan of
February 18, 1976; Effective Date: ..................,
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
PROGRAM CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:                      US$50 million
Terms:                       Standard
Project Description:         To help meet foreign exchange requirements for
the import into Pakistan of essential capital
and intermediate goods to support agricultural
and industrial development.
The following types of goods are eligible for
reimbursere nt:
Iron & steel, copper, nickel, aluminum, lead,
organic & other base metals.
Raw vegetable materials & animal & vegetable
fats and oils.
Chemicals, including pesticides. Fertilizers.
Plastic materials, rubber & synthetic rubber.
Raw hides and skin.
Industrial timber and glass sheets.
Pulp, paper & paper-making materials.
Man-made fibers, animal hair & vegetable
textile materials.
Fire brick and graphite.
Tools and implements.
Machinery and mechanical appliances.
Electrical machinery and equipment.
Commercial and industrial vehicles.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Estimated Disbrusements:     The entire loan amount is expected to be disbursed
by June 30, 1977.
Procurement Arrangements:    Only goods purchased from Bank member countries
(and Switzerland) on the basis of normal
commercial practices through cash transactions
would be eligible for reimbursement.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
CONFIDENTIAL
Minister for Finance, Planning
& Economic Affairs
Government of Pakistan
Islamabad the 9th April, 1976
No. 543(S)SG/F&EC/76.
Dear Mr. McNamara,
Over the past several months representatives of
the Government of Pakistan and of the World Bank have been
discussing the nature of the present economic problems of
Pakistan and the strategies which need to be followed to
overcome these problems and promote economic growth on a
viable long-term basis. A considerable measure of agreement
has been reached between us and I should like to set out our
analysis of the situation and to describe the objectives which
the government has set and the policies which it intends to
follow to attain them.
2.        The last five years have been a peculiarly difficult
period, beginning with the events which culminated in the
separation of Bangladesh, followed by unusually adverse
weather in the form of a serious flood and drought which
held down agricultural output, and concluding with the
unprecendented rise in import prices associated with the
increase in the price of petroleum and the accelerating
world inflation. Despite a number of measures taken by
the Government to cope with these events, Pakistan was able
to avoid a serious disruption of its development programme
only by means of substantial borrowing from OPEC countries
and from the IMF. While it was thus possible the maintain
the rate of investment, and the development effort, the
Government is aware that the extent to which the economy
is dependent on foreign aid is now too great. These problems
of slow growth and undue reliance on external resources are
the major issues which the Government is determined to overcome
during the planning period which is now beginning.
3.        The Planning Commission is now preparing a new Five
Year Development Plan. Although this Plan has not yet been
formally adopted by the Government, its principal objectives
reflect current Government policy. The Plan recognizes that
the key factor in improving domestic resource mobilization
and the balance of payments is to stimulate agricultural
production; increase savings and expand exports. In the



ANNEX IV
Page 2
next few years increased agricultural production is essential
both to permit increased exports and to reduce imports, thus
reducing the resource gap and generating domestic savings.
In the longer run industrial production will play a growing
role in sustaining economic growth and contributing to the
improvements in the balance of payments.
4.        The new Plan has a target growth rate for agriculture
of 6.5% per year. This is admittedly ambitious an opinions
and opinions may differ as to the chances of achieving it.
Nevertheless, the policies which need to be followed to increase
agricultural output are clear. The maximum use must be made of
the additional water, both groundwater and water from Tarbela.
The application of fertilizer, which is still far below what
is desirable, needs to be increased and this will require a
proper relationship between the cost of fertilizer to the
farmer and crop prices. Improved seeds and more use of
pesticides are also necessary.
6.        More specifically, the Government intends to
undertake the following actions in the agricultural sector
during FY 1977:-
(a) In accordance with the Plan objective of increasing
the use of fertilizer to 650,000 tons in 1977 and one
million tons in 1981 (an annual rate of increase of
14 percent), Government policy will aim at the pricing
of agricultural crops in relation to fertilizer prices
so as to ensure that adequate incentives are provided
to farmers. Crop and fertilizer prices will be
currently and regularly reviewed from this stand
point and the 1977 wheat price to be announced in
September, 1976 will be determined accordingly.
(b) The present fertilizer retail margin will be reviewed
and raised as necessary to ensure an adequate private
sales promotion effort at the retain level.
(c) Improvements will be made in supporting services
to farmers including extension, credit and water
management. The extension services are being
re-organized and expanded. In particular a
comprehensive agricultural extension project based
on the recommendations of joint FAO/IBRD Mission
will be started. Special mobile extension staff
will be attached to the Cotton Research Institutes
to provide linkage between the research workers and
the farmers. The equity base of the Agricultural



ANNEX IV
Page 3
Development Bank is being enlarged to enabled
expansion of its lending operations. The commercial
banks will also be more actively involved in rural
creclit so that volume of agricultural credit may be
increased from about Rs 1,000 million in 1974-75 to
Rs 1,870 million projected for the next fiscal year.
A beginning will be made with a water management
programme for which Rs 14 million are being provided
next year. Apart from this, it is hoped that valuable
experience will also be gained from the Water Management
component included in the Khairpur Tile Drainage and
Irrigated Farming Project which would involve
construction of 200 miles of new water courses and
rehabilitation of 70 miles of existing water courses
as wrell as precision land levelling of 44,000 acres.
Adecquate provision will be made in the next Five Year
Plan for rapid expansion of operations in this area
consistent with the experience gained in these pilot
projects.
(d) Allocations in the development budget for agriculture
will be increased by 20% over the level of FY 1976
of B's 2,600 million and more financial and administrative
resources will be devoted to the development of public
and private groundwater development. Every effort
will be made to strengthen the capacity of agencies
concerned with Agricultural and Water Development to
enable them effectively to administer in FY 1978 a
development programme of 20% of the ADP.
(e) Arrangements will be made with the Provincial
Governments to ensure that the irrigation system,
including both canals and water-courses is properly
maintained. Special grants will be provided to
Provinces to ensure that over and above ordinary
maintenance special efforts are made to rectify the
past dificiencies in maintenance of irrigation system.
(f) The export duty on cotton will be reduced progressively
in order to provide the farmer with a more remunerative
price. At the same time a programme will be launched to
improve the efficiency of the textile manufacturing
industry and particularly yarn manufacturing industry.
6.        Most important, particularly in the longer run, are
improved water management in the command areas and improved
cultivation methods. The benefits from these sources will be
reaped only after a lapse of time but a start must be made now



ANNEX IV
Page 4
to introduce the necessary policies and measures. For this
reason the Government welcomes the analysis of these matters
in the Bank's recent Agricultural Sector Review and is ready to
work with the Bank on preparing projects in this area. Finally
the Government fully supports the work being done under the
new Indus Basin Study to prepare a revised action programme
of salinity control and irrigation projects and plans to
appoint the necessary staff without delay..
7.        Manufacturing industry is becoming an increasingly
important part of the economy of Pakistan; industrial output
now accounts for 17 percent of GDP. The rate of growth and
the efficiency of the industrial sector is, therefore, a
crucial factor in achieving an adequate growth for the whole
economy. The Government, therefore, attaches great importance
to improving the efficiency and profitability of the public
sector enterprises and measures are to be taken to ensure that
these enterprises which are presently giving a pretax return
of only ten percent on capital employed, collectively earn a
pretax profit of 20-30 percent in the next several years. A
20 percent return is already being used as a cut-off point
for most proposed new investments. Where earnings are less
than this target studies will be made to identify the causes
and if necessary price adjustments will be made. The Government
is also anxious to encourage private investment and investment
in small-scale industry. As a result of these and other
policies the Government expects that the growth of industrial
output will be 13 percent per year during the next five years.
8.        If agricultural and industrial output reach the
rates of increase already mentioned, then allowing for an
appropriate expansion of the remainder of the economy, the
overall growth of GDP should approach the Plan target of
8.8 percent per year. This target will enable the Government
to devote a substantial portion of the increased output to
reducing the dependence of the economy on external resources.
This will be essential to enable Pakistan to cope with the
future problem of its increasing external debt burden and
the prospect of reduced net external aid. In FY 1975, over
85 percent of the development budget was being financed by
foreign capital, and these inflows are equal to over
70 percent of fixed investment. It is the Government's
long-term goal to reduce these ratios by at least half by
1980, but this will require a major effort to increase
domestic savings, both public and private. As a first step
in this direction, the Government intends to ensure that
public savings reach at least 2 percent of GDP during FY 1977.
To meet this target the Government's fiscal intention includes
not only a substantially reduced rate of growth of current
expenditure but also a number of specific measures which



ANNEX IV
Page 5
together with measures already taken are expected to have
a combined budget effect in FY 1977 of two to three billion
rupees which Is estimated to be needed to raise public
savings to 2 percent of GDP. The specific intentions include
(a) elimination of subsidies on all consumption goods except
wheat; (b) higher prices over a wide range of public services;
(c) increased and additional tax rates on imports and sales
and (d) improvements in efficiency and profits of public
enterprises. In addition to these measures a renewed ef-
fort is being made to enforce existing laws and regulations
to increase revenues collections. The threshold for liability
for income tax will not be increased during the next two years.
The Government intends to monitor the public financial per-
formance closely and to review the budget at mid-year and
make the necessary adjustements, if either expenditures or
revenues are inconsistent with these targets.
9.        At the same time it is also essential to increase
the volume of private savings. In October, 1975 the minimum
interest rates on savings and fixed term deposits were
increased; these rates now vary between 6.5 percent and
11.75 percent. The Government intends to maintain interest
rates in FY 1977 so that the bulk of these deposits earn
interest at a rate at least 2 percentage points above the
rate of Inflation.
10.       These policies designed to mobilize domestic
resources need to be supplemented by policies designed to
have a direct influence on the external position. In FY 1976
Pakistan is expected to have a balance of payments current
account deficit of $1.1 billion. It is, therefore, essential,
for the next several years, to bring about a rapid expansion
of exports while limiting the rise in imports. The Government's
long term programme calls for a growth of exports of 15 percent
a year and a current account deficit of $600 million by 1981.
This would mean a reduction of 20 percent in gross external
assistance in real terms, or 40 percent on a net basis.
Essential to these objectives are an adequate increase in
agricultural production on which about 50 percent of Pakistan's
exports are directly dependent and the development of import
substLtutLng industries. As a first step in this direction
the Government plans to ensure that the current account
balance for FY 1977 excluding the amount financed from
disbursements of project assistance will be reduced by about
US$100 million below the level of FY 1976.



ANNEX IV
Page 6
11.       A programme of export incentives and other export
promotion measures are crucial elements in Government's new
development plan. To this end, it is intended to reduce
export duty on cotton and remove export prohibitions on certain
agricultural products such as eggs, processed meat and poultry.
Government also contemplates taking the following further
steps in or before the next Budget for export promotion:-
(1) Provision of increased credit facilities for
exports and extension of export credit guarantee
scheme to foster exports of the products of
engineering goods industries and non-traditional
items.
(2) Special administrative measures for effective
utilization of GSP facilities provided by
developed countries.
(3) Constitution of a Special Cell under a
Commissioner for promoting export to Middle
East markets.
(4) Increasing the rates of commission allowed to
importers of Pakistani goods in foreign countries.
12.       At the same time import duties will be raised
selectively. The results of these steps will be reviewed and
revised at mid-year, if necessary. The introduction of these
measures should bring about a marked improvement in Pakistan's
economic situation and prospects. Nevertheless, the increase
in domestic resource mobilization and the reduction in the
balance of payments deficit to a satisfactory level will take
some time and for this reason it is important for Pakistan to
obtain an adequate volume of non-project assistance.
Yours sincerely,
/s/
(Rana Mohammad Hanif Khan)
Mr. Robert S. McNamara
President,
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development,
WASIIINGTON, DC.



