Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7814-MX 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Economic Policies in Response to the Global Crisis Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 3, 2009  
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7814-MX 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 3, 2009, entered into between UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
(“Borrower”) represented by its signatory on page 5 of this Agreement and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of 
providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which 
the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-
economic policy framework.   
 
Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set forth in the 
table in Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and for purposes of supporting the Program), 
shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower’s income, budgetary and 
public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of one billion five hundred and three million seven 
hundred and fifty thousand Dollars ($1,503,750,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
As a consequence of the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy 
framework and its satisfactory implementation of the Program, the Borrower may 
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
 
The Borrower’s representative for purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section are the 
Director General
 of BANSEFI, or 
the 
Director General Adjunto de Banca Institucional 
of
BANSEFI or any person or 
persons whom such representatives shall jointly or severally designate in writing. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%).  
 
Page  3
-2- 
 
2.04.  
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall promptly 
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the 
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
Page  4
-3- 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have 
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action 
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
(a)  
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (
Contrato de 
 Mandato
)
among SHCP and BANSEFI, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby: 
 
(i) 
BANSEFI agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to 
the Loan, meaning that, 
inter alia
,
BANSEFI agrees to represent the 
Borrower vis-
à-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal 
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify 
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds in 
compliance with the terms of this Agreement; and 
 
(ii) 
the Borrower, through SHCP, shall cooperate fully with BANSEFI to 
ensure that BANSEFI is able to comply with all of BANSEFI’s 
obligations referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under the 
Contrato de Mandato
 in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the 
Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any 
provision of the 
Contrato de Mandato
.
In case of any conflict between the terms 
of the 
Contrato de Mandato
 and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which, in the opinion of the Bank, shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has, in the opinion of the 
Bank, become inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
Page  5
-4- 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section I of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely 
affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the 
Contrato de Mandato
 has been executed by the parties thereto. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Borrower (in its 
legal opinion) and BANSEFI (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued 
by BANSEFI counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the 
Contrato de Mandato
 has 
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Borrower and BANSEFI and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BANSEFI in 
accordance with the 
Contrato de Mandato
’s terms. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on May 24, 
2011. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s representative is the 
Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público
 of
SHCP. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address for the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General 
 Conditions 
is: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
 Palacio 
Nacional 
 
Edificio 12, segundo piso 
 Colonia 
Centro 
 
06000 México, D.F. 
 
Facsímile: 011-52-55-3688-1216 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Page  6
-5- 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By /s/ 
Gerardo Rodríguez Regordosa 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Gloria M. Grandolini 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the
Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
 
1.  
The Borrower has implemented countercyclical fiscal stimulus measures during the first 
semester of 2009, as demonstrated by: (i) an increase, in real terms, of the Current Spending by 
5.4 percent; and (ii) an increase, in real terms, of the Induced Physical Capital Investment 
Spending by 27.7 percent, both increases as determined by comparing the Current Spending and 
the Induced Physical Capital Investment Spending incurred between January 1, 2008 and June 30, 
2008, and the Current Spending and the Induced Physical Capital Investment Spending incurred 
between January 1, 2009 and June 30, 2009. 
 
2.  
The Borrower has submitted to Congress an economic program for fiscal year 2010 
(
programa económico para el ejercicio fiscal 2010
)
on
September 8, 2009, consisting of the 
general criteria for economic policy, the proposed revenue law for fiscal year 2010, the proposed 
budget decree for fiscal year 2010, and various tax and fiscal proposals.  Said economic program 
includes: 
 
(a) 
the creation of new taxes and modification of existing taxes (including an 
increase in tax rates); and 
 
(b) 
a temporary deficit and the use of non-recurrent revenues, including withdrawals 
from stabilization funds, in order to compensate the temporary shortfall in public 
sector revenue, all of this, in accordance with the Fiscal Responsibility and 
Budget Law. 
 
3.  
The Borrower has issued the General Governmental Accounting Law to harmonize 
accounting standards among the federal, state and municipal levels of the executive branch of 
government. 
4.  
The Borrower has enhanced consumer protection, access to finance and market 
transparency by:  
 
(a) 
amending the Law for the Protection and Defense of Users of Financial Services 
to expand the regulatory and supervisory capacities of CONDUSEF;  
 
(b) 
amending Article 46 Bis 1 of the Credit Institutions Law to facilitate the 
provision of banking services by third parties subcontracted by a banking 
institution authorized to do so by the CNBV (as said Article 46 Bis 1 was 
amended on June 25, 2009); and  
 
(c) 
amending fraction VI Bis of article 104 of the Securities Market Law requiring 
issuers to provide information to the CNBV and to relevant stock exchanges 
about the issuer derivative positions and possible contingencies that said 
derivative positions impl
y
for the relevant issuer’s financial situation. 
Page  8
-7- 
 
5.  
The Borrower has amended its Credit Institutions Law on May 6, 2009 in order to 
enhance the transparency and impact of the Borrower’s state-owned development financial 
institutions.  Among other provisions, said amendment establishes that:  
 
(a) 
 
state-owned development financial institutions shall publish monitoring 
indicators that evaluate the services provided by the relevant institution (Art. 31 
of the Credit Institutions Law, as said article was amended on May 6, 2009), and  
 
(b) 
 SHCP shall annually carry out and publish two evaluations (in which at least two 
academic institutions need to participate) of said state-owned development 
financial institutions (Art. 55 Bis 2 of the Credit Institutions Law, as said article 
was amended on May 6, 2009). 
 
6.  
The Borrower has strengthened and enhanced its active labor market policies by: 
 
(a) 
improving the institutional set-up of the Borrower’s Temporary Employment 
Program (
Programa de Empleo Temporal
)
by
including the Borrower’s Sub-
secretariat of Employment and Labor Productivity (
Subsecretaría de Empleo y 
Productividad Laboral
)
in the technical committee that coordinates said 
Temporary Employment Program, and  
 
(b) 
allowing said Temporary Employment Program to be implemented in urban areas 
in addition to rural areas. 
 
7.  
The Borrower has issued the Decree Amending the Tariff for General Taxes on Imports 
and Exports Law in order to enhance trade, competitiveness and simplification of the Bor
rower’s 
external trade tariff structure, by reducing the most-favored-nation tariffs on manufacturing 
imports and increasing the number of duty-free tariff lines in a staged manner, over a five year 
period, starting January 1, 2009. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may, or may cause BANSEFI to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan (except for amounts required to repay the 
Front-end Fee and any Premia for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars) is allocated 
in a single tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan 
proceeds.  The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
 
Page  9
-8- 
 
C.
 
Deposit
s
of 
Loan 
Amoun
ts.
 
Except 
as the 
Bank 
may 
otherwi
se agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with its laws and shall not use them to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank 
determines at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the 
Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
 
Allocations
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
 
(expressed in Dollars
)
Single Withdrawal Tranche
 
1,499,990,625
 
Front-end Fee
 
3,759,375
 
Premia for Interest Rate Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars (amounts due under section 2.07 (c) of 
this Agreement)
 
0
TOTAL AMOUNT
 
1,503,750,000
 
Page  10
-9- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on November 15, 
2021. 
Page  11
-10- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“BANSEFI” means 
Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros, S.N.C.
,
a
Mexican development bank serving as the Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the 
Loan, or other successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. “CNBV” 
means 
Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores, 
the Borrower’s securities and 
banking supervising and regulatory authority, or any successor thereto acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
3. “CONDUSEF” 
means 
Comisión Nacional para la Protección y Defensa de los Usuarios 
de Servicios Financieros
,
the Borrower’s National Commission for the Protection and 
Defense of Users of Financial Services, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
4. 
“Congress” means the Borrower’s legislative branch of government at the federal level. 
 
5. “
Contrato de Mandato
”
means the contract referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement. 
 
6. 
“Credit Institutions Law” means the 
Ley de
 Instituciones de Crédito
,
the Borrower’s law 
for credit institutions, published in the Official Gazette on July 18, 1990 and amended 
through August 13, 2009.  
 
7. 
“Current Spending” means the total net spending incurred by the Borrower’s federal level 
of government, as laid out in Annex 1 (Total Net Spending –
Gasto Neto Total
)
of
the 
Borrower’s Budget Spending Decree (
Presupuesto de Egresos de la Federación
), as said 
Budget Spending Decree was published in the Official Gazette on December 13, 2007 (in 
the case of fiscal year 2008) and on November 28, 2008 (in the case of fiscal year 2009). 
 
8. 
“Decree Amending the Tariff for General Taxes on Imports and Exports Law” means the 
Decreto por el que se modifica la Tarifa de la Ley de los Impuestos Generales de 
Importa
ción y de Exportación
,
the Borrower’s decree amending the tariff for general 
taxes on imports and exports law, published in the Official Gazette on December 24, 
2008. 
 
9. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
Page  12
-11- 
 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 
 
10. 
“Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Law” means the 
Ley Federal de Presupuesto y 
Responsabilidad Hacendaria
,
the Borrower’s fiscal responsibility and budget law, 
Page  13
-12- 
 
published in the Official Gazette on March 30, 2006 and amended through December 31, 
2008. 
 
11. 
“General Governmental Accounting Law” means the 
Ley General de Contabilidad 
Gubernamental
,
the Borrower’s general governmental accounting law, published in the 
Official Gazette on December 31, 2008. 
 
12. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
13. 
“Induced Physical Capital Investment Spending” means the total induced spending in 
physical capital incurred by the Borrower’s federal level of government, as set forth in 
the table denominated Induced Investment by the Public Sector (
Inversión Impulsada del 
Sector Público
)
under section 2.1.3.1.1 (“Economic Classification of Programmable 
Spending”, subsection “Financed Investment”, page 47), of the Borrower’s report to 
Congress on the economic situation, public finances and public debt for the second 
trimester of 2009.   
(
http://www.shcp.gob.mx/FINANZASPUBLICAS/InformeTrimestral/2009/Segundo%20tri
mestre%20de%202009/Informe_Trime_209%20Total.pdf
). 
 
14. 
“Law for the Protection and Defense of Users of Financial Services” means the 
Ley de 
Protección y Defensa al Usuario de Servicios Financieros
,
the Borrower’s law for the 
protection and defense of users of financial services, published in the Official Gazette on 
January 18, 1999 and amended by Congress Decree on June 25, 2009. 
 
15. 
“Official Gazette” means the 
Diario Oficial de la
 Federación
,
the Borrower’s official 
gazette. 
 
16. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to mitigate the 
impact of the global crisis and strengthen the structural medium-term framework for 
sustainable economic recovery and growth set forth in the letter dated October 20, 2009 
from the Borrower to the Bank, which includes measures implemented by the Borrower 
during 2009 and the Borrower’s economic program for fiscal year 2010 and the 
modification of several financial laws of the Borrower (as described in Schedule 1, 
Section 1 to this Loan Agreement) declaring the Borrower’s commitment thereto.  
 
17. 
“Securities Market Law” means the 
Ley del Mercado de Valores
,
the Borrower’s capital 
markets law, published in the Official Gazette on December 30, 2005 and amended 
through May 6, 2009. 
 
18. “SHCP” 
means 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
,
the Borrower’s Secretariat of 
Finance and Public Credit, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank. 
 
19. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  14
-13- 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.05. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee and 
Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the proceeds of 
the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association (“Preparation Advance”), 
the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw from the Loan Account on or 
after the Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding 
balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to 
pay all accrued and
 
unpaid charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date.  The Bank 
shall pay the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and 
shall cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
Page  15
-14- 
 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan. 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put, other than to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(c) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”   
 
(e) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (d) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and its 
definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Loan Agreement 
and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
