Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5168 
Operation Name 
MX Economic Policies in Response to the Global Crisis DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General finance sector (34%); General public administration 
sector (33%); General industry and trade sector (33%) 
Project ID 
P118070 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO 
Implementing Agency 
SECRETARY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT 
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico 
Dr. Miguel Messmacher 
Titular de la Unidad de Planeacion Economica de Hacienda 
Publica 
Insurgentes Sur 1971 Torre III piso 13 
Col. Guadalupe Inn 
Mexico D.F. 
Tel.+52-5536881486 
e-mail miguel_messmacher@hacienda.gob.mx 
Date PID Prepared 
October 22, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 19, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
November 24, 2009 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Mexico has a highly open economy that has been substantially hit by the global crisis and the 
sharp drop in international trade.  GDP contracted by 9.2 percent in the first half of 2009 
compared to a year earlier.  The Government has implemented a strong economic policy package 
to mitigate the impact of the economic contraction on social and economic indicators of well-
being and provide a basis for a sound recovery of economic activity coming out of the crisis.  
The Government has been able to implement such policies following a sound track record of 
macroeconomic management supported by policy and institutional reforms in areas such as 
enhancing the sustainability of public finances, improving the efficiency of public expenditure, 
strengthening the stability of and the access to the financial sector, improved targeting of its 
active labor market policies and deepening the integration of the economy into the world 
economy.  The Government’s response to the current crisis included countercyclical fiscal 
stimulus which is now gradually withdrawn in combination with a proposal to increase non-oil 
tax revenues.  The Government is also putting in place additional measures to further strengthen 
the regulatory framework for stability, access and consumer protection.  The proposed Bank loan 
will provide financial support to the government to meet its financing needs created by the 
economic policies including the fiscal stimulus, while at the same time strengthening the 
medium-term policy framework for sustainable economic recovery and growth. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
Page  2
The Overall Program Development Objective is to support economic policies to mitigate the 
impact of the global crisis and strengthen the medium-term framework for sustainable 
economic recovery and growth.  This will be achieved by further developing the regulatory, 
monitoring and financial framework for fiscal and financial sustainability, labor market 
efficiency and trade liberalization. 
The four main Policy Areas of the DPL are: 
·
Implementation of countercyclical fiscal policies during 2009 while adopting measures to 
enhance medium-term fiscal sustainability for 2010 and beyond;  
·
Improvement of the regulatory framework for financial sector access, consumer protection 
and stability;  
·
Enhancement of short-term employment support programs while developing medium-term 
reforms for labor market efficiency and labor productivity; and  
·
Improving competitiveness by lowering international trade costs via reduction of Most 
Favored Nations (MFN) tariffs and simplification of the trade tariff regime and customs 
processes. 
 
This DPL is a central element in the implementation of the 2008 Country Partnership Strategy.  
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The proposed operation will support the following four policy areas: (i) fiscal and public 
expenditure management, (ii) financial sector, (iii) the labor market and (iii) trade integration.  
Policy interventions supported by the operation are further discussed below.  
 
Policy Area I: Fiscal Policy and Public Expenditure Management 
In the wake of the global crisis the Mexican authorities managed to initially increase and 
eventually maintain the level of public expenditure to withstand the sharp contraction in private 
aggregate demand.  Contrary to previous cyclical downturns, the sharp fall in public sector 
revenue that can be attributed to a downturn in global and domestic economic activity has not 
been compensated by a sharp reduction in overall public expenditure or an increase in taxes and, 
in that way, fiscal policy is allowing automatic stabilizers to function.  At the same time the 
government is recognizing the need for medium-term reforms to reduce the reliance on declining 
oil revenues.  
While providing for short-
term countercyclical measures, the government’s program is thus 
strengthening the foundations for medium-term fiscal sustainability.  In addition, it is 
complementing sustainability efforts with improvements in public expenditure management. The 
proposed operation would support the government’s policies to (i) conduct a counter-cyclical 
fiscal management program, (ii) enhance non-oil tax revenue; and (iii) improve public 
expenditure management in particular through the approval and implementation of a 
Governmental Accounting Law. 
Policy Area II: Financial Access with Stability
 
Page  3
For more than a decade, financial 
sector policy has featured prominently in Mexico’s 
development agenda with the dual objective of promoting stability with access. Overall the 
Government has supported these objectives through a multi-pronged strategy that encompasses 
improvements to the regulatory framework, a strengthening of institutions responsible for 
financial markets oversight, and pro-active market access policies through development finance 
institutions (DFIs). DFIs have undergone substantial improvements in their governance and 
institutional structure 
In the wake of the global financial crisis, the Government has sustained the overall policy 
direction noted above but has moved quickly to mitigate risks exposed by the global crisis
 
through regulatory changes and a more active role played by DFIs to prevent a sharp credit 
contraction by private financial institutions that would have aggravated the economic 
contraction. The most important regulatory reforms implemented in 2009 seek to address (i) the 
protection of consumers of financial services, (ii) the expansion of channels for the provision of 
financial services through banking agents, (iii) market transparency, and (iv) the transparency 
and impact of DFIs.  Prudential regulations have also been strengthened. 
Policy Area III: Labor Market 
Labor policies constitute one the five key pillars of the program to confront the global crisis that 
President Calderón announced in January 2009. The objectives of these policies are to improve 
the employability of the labor force, its wages and productivity, and protect labor incomes during 
the crisis. This operation supports the core active labor market policies implemented by the 
Government, in particular improvements in the institutional set up of the Temporary 
Employment Program (PET) and its related expansion to urban areas. 
The Government recently strengthened PET including the Secretary of Labor and Social 
Protection in the program’s coordination. Along with these institutional changes, several other 
modifications have been introduced in an effort to increase its targeting and effectiveness. The 
most important changes are (i) the PET’s extension to the urban areas, targeting those with the 
highest rates of unemployment; (ii) the participation of the National Employment System (SNE) 
as an important channel to facilitate access and reach out to potential beneficiaries; (iii) the 
harmonization of information under one coordinated strategy; (iv) the increased frequency of 
results’ publications and coordination committee gatherings; and (v) the program’s systematic 
evaluation. Indeed, external evaluations conducted by the National Evaluation Council 
(CONEVAL) have shown an increase in the PET’s targeting effectiveness.  Due to its favorable 
evaluation and further improvements in its targeting, the Government increased spending on the 
PET by 142 percent during the period of January-June 2009 compared to the same period in 
2008 to reach a larger number of beneficiaries. Further increases are planned for 2010.  
The Government has complemented the above with an expansion of other active labor market 
policies (in particular job networking and intermediation services and training programs) as well 
as passive labor market policies to sustain the standard of living of the unemployed. 
Policy Area IV: Trade Integration 
Page  4
Despite the trade policy reforms implemented since the 1980s, the Government of Mexico had 
identified gaps in its trading regime and opportunities to further reduce trading costs. A study 
conducted by the Ministry of Economy identified inconsistencies in Mexico's tariff structure. 
According to this study, higher tariffs were applied to inputs than to final products resulting in 
negative effective protection. The antitrust authorities also provided a critical assessment of 
Mexico’s trade regime in an opinion in 2008, highlighting that the tariff structure discriminated 
between importers and created distortions that limited the ability of domestic producers to 
compete with foreign producers. The effective elimination of these distortions requires that all 
producers gain access to international markets on a non-discriminatory basis. The antitrust 
authorities also highlighted the need to address existing non-tariff constraints, primarily related 
to customs service providers.  
The proposed operation seeks to support the Government’s efforts to further Mexico’s trade 
integration through a comprehensive tariff reform and staged reduction of the MFN tariffs on 
manufactured imports to be implemented over a five year period (2009-2013). The reform was 
adopted in December 2008. These measures complement other labor and financial sector reforms 
that seek to build a more competitive productive base and generate the conditions for sustainable 
growth and will also decrease costs to consumers with a positive social impact. The 
comprehensive reform rationalizes the tariff structure, reduces distortions, and trade costs
.
Overall, the reform is expected to lead to welfare gains
.
The enacted trade reform will reduce 
trade diversion, create greater regulatory certainty and cut the operational costs of the current 
users of special import regimes. Due to the high administrative costs of accessing the special 
import regimes, larger companies had been the main beneficiaries of these programs.  The tariff 
reduction makes the special imports regimes less attractive (or relevant) and the general import 
regime more accessible to all producers. Hence, the tariff reform is expected to widen access for 
smaller enterprises to more efficient inputs on a non-discriminatory basis increasing their 
competitiveness. The reform will also reduce costs to consumers. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source:  
Borrower US$0 
million 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
US$1500 million 
Total US$1500 
million 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
Implementation of the loan will require close coordination among Government agencies and the 
Bank. The Ministry of Finance (SHCP) constitutes the primary counterpart, and the National 
Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV),  The National Commission for the Protection of 
Users of Financial Services (CONDUSEF), the Ministry of Labor (STPS), and the Ministry of 
Economy (SE) will also be involved in program implementation. As the Bank’s primary 
counterpart, the SHCP will be responsible for coordinating information reporting on the 
program’s monitoring indicators, and the Bank team will also maintain a close dialogue with 
Government counterparts.  All the indicators have been discussed with the Government 
authorities and agreed on during program appraisal. 
Page  5
Since the proposed DPL is part of an ongoing programmatic engagement in the four policies 
areas (fiscal and public expenditure management, financial sector, labor market policies, and 
trade integration and facilitation), the Bank will have the opportunity to monitor the reform 
impact beyond 2010.  This will be important given that in many cases the target indicators for 
2010 cannot be reflective of the full impact of the reform.  The proposed technical assistance in 
the area of access to finance, investment operations underway and proposed new operations with 
development banks, as well as future FSAPs Updates will provide an opportunity to oversee the 
full fledge impact of these reforms. Two critical Technical Assistance loans were approved last 
year
—one
for results based management and budgeting, and another for customs 
administration—that will provide the basis for monitoring implementation in other key areas of 
the proposed operation over the medium-term. In addition, there is a non-lending technical 
assistance underway in the area of labor market policy. 
Furthermore, a full PSIA analysis of the 
policies adopted by the Mexican Government to cope with the crisis will be produced by Bank 
staff in calendar year 2010.
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
The proposed loan would support the Government’s core economic policy implementation 
during the economic downturn—the fiscal, financial, labor market and trade policies that both 
combat the crisis and provide the basis for renewed economic growth. 
A
risk to this operation is a substantial modification by Congress to the economic package and 
budget law proposed by the administration.  Debates within Congress are progressing; however 
the final budget that is ultimately approved could represent an unexpected worsening of the fiscal 
position in 2010.  Perhaps more importantly, structural medium-term revenue enhancing 
measures might not be approved.  Mitigating factors include the Government’s extensive 
negotiation and public dissemination efforts, as well as the broadly recognized need for a 
reduction in dependence on volatile and uncertain oil revenue and the possibility that the 
executive may implement alternative policies under its control if required. 
Another risk is the possibility of a weak recovery from the current economic downturn including 
a
“double dip” recession in the United States, Mexico’s main trading partner, that could lead to a 
second year of subpar economic and public sector revenue performance.
 
Fiscal outcomes would 
be jeopardized, and it may be difficult for the Government to maintain expenditure levels for key 
social and infrastructure programs.  A mitigating factor is that Mexico’s fiscal track record has 
assured good access to financial markets with a credit rating still two notches above investment 
grade.  There should be adequate access to credit to borrow through a second downturn, so long 
as medium revenue reform measures are approved by Congress.  The Government has confirmed 
that the policies and institutions supported by the DPL are given priority in its economic 
program. 
Efforts to improve the flow of credit through the financial system could be overcome by negative 
developments, such as a substantially weaker economic recovery than currently anticipated.
 
The 
financial system remains sound; however, a second round of negative economic development 
inevitably could lead to additional increases in non-performing loans and limited scope for banks 
to extend credit.  Mitigating factors include the strong initial condition of the financial system, 
the scope for additional financial intermediation by the country’s development banks, the strong 
Page  6
credibility in the conduction of monetary policy by the country’s central bank, as well as stress 
tests conducted regularly by the CNBV. 
Labor market conditions could continue to deteriorate even during an incipient recovery.
 
The 
Government may need to expand or enhance the measures supported in the proposed DPL in 
order to mitigate the social and economic impact of such deterioration.  These actions could 
confront fiscal constraints—particularly in the event of a “double dip” recession.  A mitigating 
factor is the improved targeting, evaluation and coordination in the implementation of 
Government’s social programs as well as the progress in public expenditure management to 
guide the reallocation of public expenditure. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
The program is expected to have a negligible or even somewhat beneficial environmental impact. 
The government’s fiscal program is consistent with environmental sustainability. Environment 
sustainability is one of the key pillars of Mexico’s 2007-2012 National Development Plan that 
seeks to mainstream environmental sustainability principles in sectoral policies and economic 
development. Despite the economic crisis, the government has explicitly maintained its 
commitment to environmental sustainability and has continued to develop and implement public 
policies that protect the environment, including the development of infrastructure policies that 
combat climate change and green house gases. 
The enacted tariff reform is expected to have a negligible or even somewhat beneficial 
environmental impact.  First, the reform does not apply to agricultural products. Second, tariffs 
for environmental goods
1
are lowered and the import of these will no longer require following 
cumbersome procedures of multiple trade agreements.  Third, Mexico’s environmental 
regulations are in agreement with the Banks’ overall environmental safeguards and these 
regulations will continue to apply to imports as well as for the granting and enforcement of 
construction and business operation permits.  Moreover, the simplification of trade procedures 
will now facilitate their enforcement.  Improvements in the systems of customs administration 
agency and its interfaces with other public agencies, including SEMARNAT, will facilitate the 
enforcement of these regulations. 
The program is expected to have a positive poverty and social impact on the poor and vulnerable 
groups.  A poverty and distribution analysis carried out by Bank staff assesses in more detail the 
poverty and social impacts of policies included in the fiscal, labor market and trade policy areas.  
These findings are complemented with an additional qualitative assessment of the impacts of 
financial sector policies. 
An evaluation of the distributive impact of the budget proposal by the SHCP shows a very 
progressive impact in terms of the absolute incidence on households in the bottom three deciles 
of the income distribution.  This occurs as the introduction of new taxes and changes in existing 
The environmental goods and services industry consists of activities which produce goods and services to measure, prevent, 
limit, minimise or correct environmental damage to water, air and soil, as well as problems related to waste, noise and eco 
systems. This includes cleaner technologies, products and services that reduce environmental risk and minimise pollution and 
resource use (OECD, Policy Brief, September 2005). Environmental goods are classified into four categories: pollution 
management, cleaner technologies and products, resource management, and environmentally preferable products. 
Page  7
tax rates, including the proposed “contribution to reduce poverty” on consumption, is more than 
compensated by an allocation of additional budget resources to expand the conditional cash 
transfers under 
Oportunidades
 and other social programs benefitting the poor. 
Financial sector policies supported by this operation are expected to have a positive social 
impact. In particular, the approval of a regulatory framework for the provision of banking 
services through agents will permit the expansion of basic financial services to lower income 
groups of the population through new cost-effective channels, helping to narrow the current wide 
gap. The enhancement of the regulatory and supervisory capacities of CONDUSEF should lead 
to greater transparency in financial contracts and better informed users of financial services, 
particularly benefitting lower income households and micro and small entrepreneurs 
Temporary employment programs are considered an appropriate mechanism for dealing with 
cyclical downturns in the labor market. These programs provide an income support for those 
who lost their job and, given the self-targeting mechanism—usually at a pay below minimum or 
nearly minimum wages—focus on those most in need of finding an income source.  The PET is a 
potentially useful and adequate mechanism for dealing with the current crisis as it is a flexible 
and appropriate program for dealing with the cyclical aspect of the crisis. 
The tariff reform is expected to lead to positive net welfare gains.  The reform will reduce costs 
to consumers.  At the productive level, the sectors that will benefit from the tariff reforms are 
mainly the agricultural, construction, and services sectors that generate 85.7 percent of total 
employment. Within these, SMEs are expected to benefit more in relative terms given that it had 
been relatively more costly for them to access the special imports regimes. Regarding the 
manufacturing sector, the authorities expect that the potentially affected companies comprise 
14.3 percent of total employment
2
.
The activities that could be negatively affected are textiles 
industries, plastics, metal products, leather products, paper, printing and related industries, 
chemicals, wood industry, and oil and coal related industries. Several of these industries have 
experienced a fall in their participation in total manufacturing employment and value added prior 
to the crisis. The recent expansion of active labor market programs (especially the temporary 
employment program, the retraining program, and job networking) supported by the third pillar 
of this operation will provide assistance to workers that might be adversely impacted by the tariff 
reform. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Jozef Draaisma 
Title: Sr Country Economist 
Tel: +52-55-5480-4208 
Email: jdraaisma1@worldbank.org 
Location: Mexico City, Mexico (IBRD) 
 
Contact: Esperanza Lasagabaster 
Title: Sr  Financial Sr. Economist 
Tel: 202-473-2880 
I
M
E
Page  8
Email: elasagabaster@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
