Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5090 
Operation Name 
MX Economic Policies in Response to the Crisis DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General finance sector (34%);General public administration sector 
(33%);General industry and trade sector (33%) 
Project ID 
P118070 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO 
Implementing Agency 
SECRETARY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT 
Date PID Prepared 
September 23, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 15, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 24, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Mexico has a highly open economy that has been substantially hit by the global crisis and the sharp drop 
in international trade.  GDP in the first half of the year contracted by 9.2 percent in the first half of 2009 
compared to a year earlier.  The government has implemented a strong economic policy package to 
mitigate the impact of the economic contraction on social and economic indicators of well-being and 
provide a basis for a sound recovery of economic activity coming out of the crisis.  The government has 
been able to implement such policies following a sound track record of macroeconomic management 
supported by policy and institutional reforms in areas such as enhancing the sustainability of public 
finances, improving the efficiency of public expenditure, strengthening the stability of and the access to 
the financial sector, improved targeting of its active labor market policies and deepening the integration 
of the economy into the world economy.  The government
’s response to the current crisis included 
maintaining the level of public expenditures despite the sharp drop in revenue, thereby creating an 
effectively counter-cyclical fiscal stimulus to economic activity during the worst part of the economic 
contraction.  Similarly, government development banks were able to increase their financial support and 
facilitate the continued flow of credit the different sectors of the economy at a time that private sector 
banks and financial intermediaries started to diminish and contract their financing to the real sector and 
to households.  The proposed Bank loan will provide financial support to the government to meet its 
financing needs created by the economic policies including the fiscal stimulus, while at the same time 
strengthening the institutional and policy reforms that have enabled the policy response. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed loan would support the government’s commitment to policies that mitigate the social and 
economic impacts of the global crisis.  The operation aims to strengthen the government’s ability to 
implement countercyclical policies as well as to adopt institutional and policy reform that provide for a 
basis for a sound economic recovery and enhanced level of economic growth.   
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed operation will support policies in the areas of public finances, public expenditure 
management, financial sector, the labor market and external trade.  Support in the public finance area is 
oriented to strengthening the framework in Mexico’s fiscal responsibility law oriented towards 
Page  2
enhancing fiscal sustainability and limiting the volatility of public expenditures.  This includes support 
for policies and institutional structures related to the operation of the balanced budget rule, revenue 
stabilization fund and alternative revenue stabilization mechanisms.  Activities in the area of public 
expenditure management include harmonization of accounting standards among different levels of 
government and support to the country’s Performance Evaluation system oriented to move towards 
performance informed budgeting at the different levels of government.  Policies in the financial sector 
supported by the operation include measures to enhance the operational flexibility and evaluation 
mechanisms within the country’s development banks.  Active labor market policies supported by the 
operation include the expansion of the temporary employment program into urban areas as well as the 
strengthening of labor intermediation services.  Trade policy and institutional reform activities include 
support for the implementation of a five-year program the unilateral reduction of MFN tariffs rates and 
measures to reduce the costs of trade regulations including customs modernization and simplification of 
procedures. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The policies and institutional reform supported by this operation are not expected to cause significant 
effects on the country’s environment, forests, and other natural resources. 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1500 
 Total 
1500 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Jozef Draaisma 
Title: Sr Country Economist 
Tel: 5782+4208 / 52-55-5480-4208 
Fax:  
Email: Jdraaisma1@worldbank.org 
Location: Mexico City, Mexico (IBRD)
 
