Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3748 SL  
 
Development Credit Agreement
 
(National Social Action Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  June 2, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3748 SL  
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated  June 2, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by the National Commission for Social 
Action (NaCSA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make the proceeds of the Credit provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Credit) available to NaCSA, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and NaCSA (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means any community that has met the eligibility criteria 
set out, or referred to, in the Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement to which NaCSA 
intends to make or has made a Grant (as hereinafter defined) for carrying out a 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined); 
Page  3
2
(b) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 3.02 (b) of the Project Agreement; 
(c) 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on 
January 1, and ending on December 31, of each year; 
(d) 
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by NaCSA out of 
the proceeds of the Credit to a Beneficiary for a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) 
pursuant to Part A of the Project; 
(e) 
“Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
NaCSA and a Beneficiary for the purposes of providing a Grant, pursuant to Part A of the 
Project and Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time;  
(f) 
“IEC” means information, education and communication; 
(g) 
“Leones” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(h) 
“National Commission for Social Action” or “NaCSA” means the entity 
established as an autonomous juridical person, and operating, pursuant to the Borrower’s 
National Commission for Social Action Act, 2001 (Act No. 13 of 2001), as said Act may 
be amended from time to time for the purpose of promoting community-based, demand 
driven and sustainable development activities; 
(i) 
“Operations Manual” means the NaCSA Operations Manual adopted by 
NaCSA, on February 14, 2003, including all annexes thereto, which sets forth the policies 
and procedures for the carrying out of the Project, as the same may be amended from 
time to time with the prior agreement of the Association; 
(j) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement;  
(k) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
NaCSA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(l) 
“Regional Project Approval Committee” means the project approval 
committee referred to in Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement, chaired by NaCSA in each 
of the Borrower’s regions; 
Page  4
3
(m) 
“Sierra Leone Roads Authority” or “SLRA” means the entity established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Sierra Leone Roads Authority Act, March 19, 1992, published 
in Sierra Leone Gazette Volume CXXIII No. 18; 
(n) 
“SLRA MOU” means the memorandum of understanding between 
NaCSA and SLRA referred to in Schedule 1, paragraph 3 (b) of this Agreement; 
(o) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(p) 
“Subproject” means a specific community-based development project to 
be carried out under Part A of the Project utilizing the proceeds of a Grant; and 
(q) 
“Subsidiary Financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and NaCSA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty five million, four hundred thousand special drawing 
rights (SDR 25,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, 
amounts to be paid) by NaCSA to a Beneficiary on account of withdrawals made under a 
Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for a Subproject in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.  
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate, special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  5
4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set 
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on April 1 and 
October 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 2013, and ending March 1, 2043.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2023 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Page  6
5
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. The Minister of Finance, and any person whom he or she shall 
designate in writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 
of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  7
6
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall 
cause NaCSA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement, all 
the obligations of the Project Agreement therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken 
all action, including the provision of funds (which shall include counterpart funds), 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NaCSA to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b) 
To enable NaCSA to meet its obligations under Schedule 2, Section I (2), 
of the Project Agreement, the Borrower shall take all measures on its part to ensure that 
NaCSA shall at all times be under the management of a qualified Commissioner and 
Deputy Commissioner, whose qualifications, skills mix, and terms of reference are 
consistent with Section 14 of the National Commission for Social Action Act, 2001 (Act. 
No. 13 of 2001), and under the governance and general supervision of a qualified Board 
of Directors. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to NaCSA 
under a Subsidiary Financing Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
NaCSA, under conditions which shall have been approved by the Association. 
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.  
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services  required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.  
 
Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution to the financing of the Project: 
(a) 
open and maintain, for the duration of the Project, an advance account 
Page  8
7
(hereinafter referred to as the Project Account) in Leones in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account an initial advance equivalent to 
$360,000, and thereafter replenish the Project Account on a quarterly basis, or whenever 
the balance of the Project Account is less than $50,000 equivalent, whichever occurs first; 
and 
(c) 
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account shall be used only 
for the purposes of defraying the cost of expenditures incurred in the execution of the 
Project which are not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be 
carried out by NaCSA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made; and 
(iii) 
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
Page  9
8
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
NaCSA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement; 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that NaCSA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; and 
(c) 
National Commission for Social Action Act, 2001 (Act No. 13 of 2001) 
of the Borrower, establishing NaCSA, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the legal status, operations or 
financial condition of NaCSA or its ability to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
Page  10
9
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
that NaCSA has appointed an independent auditor to conduct the Project 
audits for Fiscal Years 2004-2006, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; 
(b) 
that the Borrower has made the initial deposit of $360,000 equivalent 
into the Project Account as referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement; and 
(c) 
that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed by the 
Borrower and NaCSA. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
NaCSA, and is legally binding upon NaCSA in accordance with its terms; and 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and NaCSA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
NaCSA in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.  
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  11
10
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Ministerial Building 
 
George Street 
 
Freetown 
 
Sierra Leone 
 
Facsimile: 
232 22 228 472 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
 
By  
/s/ Ibrahim M. Kamara 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ 
Callisto 
Madavo 
Regional Vice President  
Africa
 
Page  13
12
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:  
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
 
 
 
 
(a) under Parts B (i) of the;  
545,000 
80% 
 
Project  
 
 
(b) under Part B (ii) of the 
545,000 
80% 
 
 
 
Project  
 
 
(2) 
Goods 
730,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures (ex- 
 
factory cost) and 
 
80
%
of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services and 
3,630,000 
100% of foreign 
 training 
 
expenditures 
and 
 
80%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(4) 
Grants under Part A of  
18,130,000 
100% of amounts 
 
the Project 
 
disbursed 
 
(5) Operating 
Expenditures 
1,090,000 
80% 
 
(6) Unallocated 
730,000 
 
_________
25,400,000 
 TOTAL 
======== 
 
 
Page  14
13
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term “operating expenditures” means reasonable expenditures 
directly related to the implementation, management and monitoring of the Project, 
incurred by NaCSA (which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the 
Project), consisting of expenditures for Project staff travel, per diem, office supplies, 
utilities, rent, email and internet fees, staff insurance, maintenance of office equipment, 
and operation and maintenance of vehicles, but excluding salaries of staff of the 
Borrower’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for:  
(a) 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;  
(b) 
expenditures made under Category (1) (a) for works unless NaCSA and 
SLRA has executed the SLRA MOU which identifies the parties’ respective roles in, and 
responsibilities for, the carrying out of pilot projects involving the rehabilitation of feeder 
roads or other rural transport under Part B (i) of the Project; and 
(c) 
expenditures made under Category (4) for Grants unless the Grant was 
made in accordance with the eligibility criteria and procedures, and on terms and 
conditions set forth in Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement and further described in the 
Operations Manual. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) all works, (b) goods under contracts costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent each, (c) services for consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, (d) services for individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, (e) Grants under Part A of the 
Project, and (f) training and operating expenses, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  15
14
5. 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount of the 
Credit was used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association for 
deposit in the Credit Account, an amount equivalent to the amount so used.  
Page  16
15
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in its efforts to generate 
sustained poverty reduction by financing and supporting community-driven development 
initiatives, focusing on newly accessible areas and the vulnerable people within these 
areas. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Community Driven Program
The provision of Grants for the carrying out by local communities of specific 
demand-driven, community-based, social and economic projects to develop local 
infrastructure and support capacity building, including the rehabilitation and/or 
construction of, or equipment for, primary schools, health posts, water and sanitation, 
drainage, and drying floors, with emphasis on reaching underserved communities.  
Part B:  Pilot Programs in Newly Accessible Areas
(i) 
Rural Labor Based Public Works Program 
 
(a) 
Carrying out specific labor-based pilot projects to rehabilitate 
and maintain basic rural infrastructure in the Borrower’s poorest 
districts of Koinadugu, Kono, and Kailahun, as a means to 
employ youths and vulnerable groups.  
 
(b) 
Carrying out training programs to strengthen the capacity of 
local governments in identifying, managing and implementing 
rehabilitation projects, and to  strengthen the capacity of local 
contractors and site supervisors to execute the procurement 
requirements for Subprojects. 
(ii) 
Shelter Program for Vulnerable Groups 
Page  17
16
Construction of basic shelter for needy households, including female-
headed households, amputees, and other disabled population groups in
 the Borrower’s 
districts of Koinadugu, Kono, and Kailahun.  
(iii) 
Independent Evaluation of Pilot Programs 
 
Carrying out an independent evaluation of activities included in Part B 
(i) and (ii) of the Project. 
Part 
C: Project Management Activities: Capacity Building, IEC, Monitoring and 
Evaluation
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the capacity of NaCSA and local 
communities to develop, oversee, implement and evaluate various demand-driven, 
community-based, poverty alleviation activities, including audits and the provision of 
training, equipment and vehicles required therefor.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
Page  18
17
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) (a) and (1) (b) 
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $750,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
Page  19
18
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  20
19
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
