                                          Documentof
                                        TheWorld Bank



                                  FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY                   Report No. 44839-SL




                     FOOD PRICE CRISIS RESPONSETRUST FUND

                                       PROJECTPAPER

                                  FORA PROPOSEDGRANT

                            INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$4 MILLION

                                             TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF SIERRALEONE

                                            FOR THE

        CO-FINANCING OF THE NATIONAL SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT



                                        JULY 29,2008




HumanDevelopmentSector 2
CountryDepartmentWest Africa 1
Africa Region




This document has arestricted distribution andmay beusedbyrecipients only inthe performance of
their official duties. Its contents maynot otherwise bedisclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                     (Exchange Rate Effective as o fJune 30,2008)

                             Currency Unit = Leone
                                  U S $ l.OO  =Le 2,970

                                     FISCALYEAR
                               January I -December 31

                              WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                      Metric system

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABU       Agricultural Business Unit
BA        Beneficiary Assessment
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBO       Community-Based Organizations
CDD       Community-Driven Development
CDP       Community-Driven Program
CFSVA     Comprehensive Food Security and Vulnerability Assessment
CPAR      Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPIA      Country Performance andInstitutional Assessment
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DfID      Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
DO        Development Objective
EC        European Commission
FA0       Food andAgriculture Organization
FBO       FaithBased Organization
FFS       Farmer Field School
FM        FinancialManagement
FMPU      Financial Management and Procurement Unit
FMR       Financial ManagementReport
FPCR TF   FoodPrice Crisis ResponseTrust Fund
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GFRP      Global FoodCrisisResponseProgram
GOSL      Government o f Sierra Leone
HH        Households
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstructionand Development
IDA       InternatiQnalDevelopment Association
IEC       Information, Education and Communication
IFRs      InterimFinancial Management Reports
IMF       International Monetary Fund
IRCB      Institutional Reform and Capacity Building
LGFD       Local Government Finance Department
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MDAs       Ministries, Departments andAgencies
MDGs      MillenniumDevelopment Goals
MDRI      Multilateral Debt ReliefInitiative
MoFD       MinistryofFinanceandDevelopmentPlanning
MTEF       MediumTermExpenditureFramework
NaCSA     NationalCommission for Social Action
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NSAP       NationalSocial Action Project
OM         Operational Manual

                                             ..
                                             11

                                                                         FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

        PAMC              Project Approval and Monitoring Committee
        P F M             Public Financial Management
        P O M             Project Operational Manual
        PPA               Participatory Poverty Assessment
        PRRO              Protracted Relief and Recovery Operation
         PRSP             PovertyReductionStrategy Paper
         QER              Quality Enhancement Review
         RPSDP            Sierra Leone Rural and Private Sector Development Project
         SAPA             Social Action and Poverty Alleviation Program
         SDR              Special Drawing Rights
         SHARP            Sierra Leone HIV/AIDS Response Project
         SLRA             Sierra Leone Roads Authority
         SOCAT            Social Capital Assessment Tool
         SOE              Statement o f Expenditures
         SPP              Strategic Planning and Action Process
         TEP              Training and Employment Program
         TOR              Terms o f Reference
         TSS              Transitional Support Strategy
         TTL              Task Team Leader
         UN               UnitedNations
         UNDP             United Nations Development Program
         UNICEF           United Nations Children's Fund
         UNOPS            United Nation Operations Support
         WFP              World FoodProgram




                                             Vice President: Obiageli K.Ezekwesili
                                          Country Director: Ishac Diwan
                                            Sector Director:   Yaw Ansu
                                            Sector Manager: Eva Jarawan


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.



                                                             iii


                                      THE REPUBLICOF SIERRALEONE
        CO-FINANCINGOF THE NATIONAL SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT

                                                     TABLE OFCONTENTS
PROJECTPAPERDATA SHEET                               ............................................................................................................       V
1                                                                                                                                                                        1
2..    INTRODUCTION               ...............................................................................................................................
       BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALEFOR CO-FINANCING INTHE AMOUNT OFUS%4
MILLION    ......................................................................................................................................................        1
    A MAGNITUDETHE CRISIS
     .               OF                       ....................................................................................................................       2
    B.SOCIALANDECONOMICIMPACT
    D SECTOR STRATEGY ................................................................................................................................. 4
    C GOVERNMENT        RESPONSE           .......................................................................................................................
                                                     .............................................................................................................       2
                                                                                                                                                                         3

    E OTHERDONORS'
     .
     ..
                            ACT~VITIES          ..................................................................................................................       4
    F.PROJECTDESCRIPTION IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE
                                      AND                                                                                                                                5
    G INSTITUTIONAL
     .                    CAPACITY          ......................................................................................................................
                                                                                                        ..............................................................
                                                                                                                                                                         6
3      PROPOSEDCHANGES                       .....................................................................................................................       6
4      COST IMPLICATIONS                     .....................................................................................................................       8
5...   CONSISTENCYWITH CAS                            .............................................................................................................      9
6.     APPRAISALOFADDITIONAL PROJECTACTIVITIES                                                             .........................................................    10
    A ECONOMICAND F~ANCIAL
     .                                        ..................................................................................................................        10
    B.TECHNICAL                                                                                                                                                         11
    C.FIDUCIARY............................................................................................................................................
                   ...........................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                        11
    D.ENVIRONMENTALAND SOCIAL                       .............................................................................................................       14
7      EXPECTED OUTCOMES                         ...............................................................................................................        15
8      BENEFITSAND RISKS                     ...................................................................................................................        15
9      READINESSFORIMPLEMENTATION                                           ......................................................................................
10
 ....    FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE GRANT CO-FINANCING                                                                                          .............16
                                                                                                                                                                        17


Listof Tables:
Table 1:Project Costs by Category . Credit                        IDA                     ..............................................................                 9
Table 2: Project Costs by Category FPCR TF Grant              .                                    .......................................................               9

Listof Annexes:
Annex 1: Results Framework                       ............................................................................................                          18
Annex 2: Project Costs (Total Project)                               .............................................................................                     22
Annex 3: Risk Rating Summary Table (Total Project)                                                 .....................................................               23
Annex 4: Preliminary Budget for Cashfor Work Program                                                        ..............................................             26




The FoodCrisis Response Co-FinancingGrant for Sierra Leone was preparedby an IDA team consisting
of Mirey Ovadiya. Kathryn Bach and Adriana Cunha Costa (AFTH2). Sabine Hader (AFCGH). John
NyagaandRobertWallace DeGraft-Hanson(AFTFM). Tsri Apronti (AFTPC). DouglasAddison (AFTP4).
Engilbert Gudmundsonn(AFMSL). MarjorieMpundu (LEGAF). CharlesAnnor Frempong (AFTAR) and
LuisSchwarz(LOAFC).



                                                                               iv


                        PROJECT PAPERDATA SHEET




National Social Action Project -Food            Environmental Category: B


Recipient: Republic o f Sierra Leone
Responsible agency: National Commission for Social Action (NaCSA)
               - .
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY             I 2009          I2010




                                                                           oYes X N o


Revisedproject development objectives/outcomes

The project's revised development objective is to assist war-affected or otherwise
vulnerable communities to restore infrastructure and services, build local capacity for
collective action, and assist vulnerable households to access temporary employment
opportunities, with priority given to areas not previously serviced bythe government,
newly accessible areas (those which were under rebel control until January 2002), food
insecure areas, and the most vulnerable population groups within those areas.

Does the scaled-up or r          e         s         t        r        u        c       l
                                     For Co-Financing
[ ] Loan   [ ] Credit   [XI Grant (from FPCRTrust Fund)
For LoandCreditdGrants:
        Total FPCR financing (US$m.): 4.0
        Proposed terms: Standard TF grant terms
                                  Financing Plan (uS$m.)
                   Source                          Local         Foreign         Total
Recipient                                       0              0             0
FPCR TF                                         4.0            0             4.0
Total                                           4.0            0             4.0




                                             V


                                 1. INTRODUCTION


1.      This project paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide a co-
financing grant from the FoodPrice Crisis Response Trust Fund(FPCR TF) inan amount
o f US$4 million in support o f additionaVscaled-up activities under the Sierra Leone
National Social Action Project (Project ID P079335) (Credit 3748-SL). The proposed
grant is being undertakenunder the Global FoodCrisis Program, which was endorsedby
the Board on M a y 29,2008, and will be financed out o f the Food Price Crisis Response
Trust Fund,

2.      The proposed grant will finance a "cash for work" program responding to food
price increases. The additional FPCR TF financing i s expected to ease the burden o f the
price increases on the most vulnerable populations and provide households with
incremental resources to cope, helping them to avoid reverting to adverse mechanisms
that would diminishtheir asset andhumancapital base.

3.      Inorder to help the GovernmentofSierra Leonemitigatethe impact ofthe food
price increases, the World Bank will provide support for both short term and long term
measures. The "Cash for Work" program constitutes one prong o f the World Bank
strategy, focusing on short term mitigating measures. World Bank support will also
include: (i)budget support through a Development Policy Grant to mitigate the impact o f
higher prices on budget allocations to key poverty reducing expenditures and assist
Government to maintain key basic services targeting vulnerable populations; and (ii)
support to improve food production andproductivity through the Sierra Leone Rural and
Private Sector Development Project (RPSDP) (IDA Grant H290-SL). RPSDP i s now
effective.  Initial adjustments have been made to allow for the financing of seeds,
fertilizers and implements, which will help in the next planting season.          Further
adjustments and possible restructuring are being contemplated to respond more fully to
the changed circumstances since project design.         World Bank support will also
complement the efforts o f WFP focusing on acute needs o f food aid, malnutrition and
mother andchild health inthe most food insecure areas.



   2. BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALEFORCO-FINANCINGIN
                        THEAMOUNT OFUS$4 MILLION


4.      Increasing world food prices threaten to undermine recent progress toward the
millennium development goals (MDGs) by reducing household and national food
security and threatening macroeconomic stability.      In post-conflict and fragile states,
social unrest andinstability i s a real threat.




                                               1

5.      The rationale behind the co-financing would be to capitalize on the solid
performance o f the IDA-funded National Social Action Project (NSAP) to put in place
and scale up safety net interventions to help the poor cope with the drastic increases in
food prices in Sierra Leone. Global food prices have increased 26 percent over 2004 -
2007, and food crop prices are expected to remain above 2004 levels through 2015. The
average export price for rice, for example, increased from US$375 per metric ton in
January 2008 to US$775 per metric ton by June 2008. In Sierra Leone, rice is the main
staple food in both urban and rural areas; furthermore, the country produces only two
thirds o f the national consumption (355,000 metric tons per year), with the shortfall
sourced though imports and food aid. As such, Sierra Leone i s particularly vulnerable to
rising food prices, and the FA0 has listed Sierra Leone as one o f the 8 most vulnerable
food deficient low income countries globally inthe current food prices crisis'.


                                 A. MAGNITUDETHE CRISIS
                                                      OF

6.      Global price increases reached crisis proportions in 2008, and the impact o f high
world food prices i s compounded by the pass-through effects o f increasing fuel prices,
which add to distribution costs, further fueling the rate o f food price inflation in many
countries. In Sierra Leone, the 12 month inflation rate for June 2008 increased to 16.8
percent from 13.8 percent in December 2007 and 8.3 percent in December 2006.
According to data from Statistics Sierra Leone, Freetown consumer prices for imported
rice show an accelerating rate o f inflation: the cost o f imported rice in December 2007
was 21 percent higher than inthe preceding December while the June 2008 price was 49
percent higher thanthe precedingMarch. Similarly, the price o f wheat flour inDecember
2008 was 11 percent higher than a year earlier and the June 2008 price was 28 percent
higher than the preceding June. The official price o f petrol increased by 27 percent
between June 2007 and June 2008. The Government mitigated some o f these price
increases by reducing import tariffs on rice, flour, andpetroleum products.


                                B.SOCIAL AND ECONOMICIMPACT

7.      The impact o f the current food price increases on Sierra Leone could be
devastating. Sierra Leone i s a fragile state, recently emerging from a brutal conflict.
According to a 2003/04 household survey, roughly 66 percent o f the population lives
below the poverty line, with 52 percent living on less than US$1 per day, and 26 percent
unable to afford daily minimum caloric requirements. At least 150,000 people could be
pushed below the poverty line by the increased cost o f rice alone raising the poverty
headcount for rice consumers by at least 3-4 percentage points to around 69-70 percent.2

1Vulnerable due to a combination of high levels of chronic hunger (more than 30 percent
undernourishment; 51percent in Sierra Leone) while being highly dependenton imports ofpetroleum
products (100percent), and, on imports ofmajor grains: rice, wheat and maize (53 percent of grains are
imported).
  Based on 2003/04 household survey data. This is the impact on net consumers. Excludes impact of real
growth between 2003 and 2008.       See World Bank Report No. 44082-SL, Sierra Leone:             Poverty
Diagnostic.




                                                    2

Still more will have been adversely affected through other food and fuel price increases.
The burden is expected to be felt both by net food consumers and producers inurban and
rural areas, although in varying degrees. The WFP estimates that 20,000 low-income
urbanhouseholds canbe classified as highlyvulnerable. Rural producers who are able to
generate a surplus are clearly poised to benefit from the increasingprices inthe long-run;
however, many smallholder farming households fail to cover their own annual
consumption requirements and are therefore vulnerable as well. The WFP estimates that
120,000 smallholder farming households produced less than 50 percent o f their rice
consumption requirement for the year in2007.

8.      Most affected by recent price increases are the low income urban and peri-urban
households that are largely dependent on the market to access food products. Youth and
female headed households with limited resources and capacity are also expected to be
severely affected. Up to a quarter o f the population now lives inthe Freetown area, away
from major production areas and dependent on imported food.

9.      The food price crisis is also threatening the fragile peace and stability. The
months between June and December are traditionally known as the "lean season" and the
Government i s deeply concerned about bothwelfare and peace duringthis period.

10.     Regarding the economy, the higher food and fuel prices are also likely to have an
adverse impact on the country's external balance. The terms o f trade are expected to
decline in 2008 by 13.5 percent, driven by rapidly rising fuel and food costs, raising the
cost o f heavy planned spending on imports by the government for public services and
investment. The current account deficit in2008 is expected to increase to 6.5 percent o f
GDP from 3.8 percent in 2007. The larger current account deficit will be financed by
higher official transfers. The fiscal impact o f the food crisis is likely to be greater in the
short run as the Government has recently reduced tariffs on fuel and rice imports. This
policy may not reduce revenues below the budget target for 2008, due to higher
commodity prices, but the impact o f rising food and fuel prices will make it difficult to
maintainpublic service delivery at planned levels without more resources.


                               C.GOVERNMENT        RESPONSE

11.     The Government o f Sierra Leone has set up a ministerial task force, with the
Ministers o f Agriculture, Finance, and Trade and Commerce, to lead their response to the
food price increases. While somewhat slow to formally engage, the Government is now
consulting with development partners, most recently in a meeting hosted by UN and
attended by all major development partners. It has sent out an appeal to partners for
support in addressing the crisis. FAO, WFP and the Bank are looked upon for leadership.
The Government is focusing on three elements:

 (i)    Mitigating and phasing in price increases through reductions in food tariffs and
        discussions with rice importers to hold back passing on price increases to the
        consumers,




                                             3

 (ii)  Increasing national food production by providing various incentives, such as
       additional seeds and fertilizers, investment encouragement to larger producers,
       andimprovements inhandlingand transport to ease the access o f food to markets.
       While these can be expected to have a fairly quick impact, giventhe nature of rice
       cultivation and natural conditions, the impact will not be fast enough to ease the
       burden on the poor households duringthe "hungry season" and inthe short term.
(iii)  Mitigating the impact on the poorest and the most vulnerable through targeted
       programs, such as food or cash for work programs, school feeding and special
       assistance for particularly vulnerable families for income generating activities.

12.    Discussions are ongoing to seek financing for the mitigation efforts. The Bankhas
been helping the Government to try to identify and solicit resources from bilateral and
multilateral donors, including from the UN Peace Building Fund (from unallocated
resources and/or from reallocation o f slow moving programs). The food crisis was
discussed in a recent high level meeting o f the UNPeace Building Commission, inNew
York on M a y 19, 2008. Participants were invited to announce contributions to the effort.
Bank support from the Global FoodCrisis Response Program (GFRP) could be seen as a
helpfulcatalyst to mobilize resources.


                                  D.SECTOR STRATEGY

13.    The Bank has recently put forward a new GFRP that aims to allow for a
comprehensive response to the crisis across a range o f different instruments.          The
program provides an overall framework for the Bank to coordinate its own contribution
to addressing the crisis in partnership with other multi-lateral organizations and donor
agencies. The initial approach will be to facilitate a Bank response utilizing all available
tools as soon as possible, while supporting the evolving coordination role o f the United
Nations Task Force on the Global FoodCrisis established recently inBeme.


                            E.OTHERDONORS'        ACTIVITIES

14.    There are a number o f other donors active inresponding to the food crisis. FA0 i s
promoting the medium-term effort to increase food production through their support for
Agricultural Business Units (BUS). These units, comprised o f Farmer Field School
(FFS) members or other community based organizations, have proved to be an effective
mechanism in promoting improved productivity and market orientation among the
communities.    A national coalition o f NGOs including CARE, World Vision
International, AfriCare and Catholic Relief Services have also established FFS and
market clusters at the sub-district level. UNICEF is supporting two therapeutic feeding
centers in the northern region, one at Mebesseneh Hospital and one at Magbenteh
Community Hospital in Makeni, that provide nutritional supplements. In collaboration
with the World Health Organization, World Food Program and other partners, UNICEF
plans to expand these programs to cover each o f the 13 districts nationwide. WFP
supports basic primary education through primary-school feeding, including an incentive
scheme for girls (take-home rations) and seeks to improve health and nutritional status o f
women and children through integrated Mother-Child Health and Nutrition programs.


                                             4

Discussions are underway to see if these programs could be scaled-up in response to the
current crisis. WFP also supports the Protracted Reliefand Recovery Operation (PRRO),
which is designed to provide food assistance to vulnerable populations inthe six districts
(Kailahun, Kenema, Kono, Bo, Bonthe and Pujehun) that suffered the highest levels o f
destruction during the war. Implementation will span the period July 2007 to June 2009
with a focus on food security improvement, education and health. Both EC and DfID
have also offered, in principle, to support the Government in its efforts to respond to the
crisis, with likely finding for budget support top-ups and through WFP school feeding
programs.

            F.PROJECTDESCRIPTION IMPLEMENTATIONPERFORMANCE
                                            AND

15.     The National Social Action Project, a US$35 million credit, was approved in
April 2003, and became effective in August o f that year. The project's development
objective i s to assist war-affected communities to restore infrastructure and services and
build local capacity for collective action, with priority given to areas not previously
serviced by the government, newly accessible areas (those which were under rebel
control until January 2002), and the most vulnerable population groups within those
areas. Specifically, it supports activities in three components: (i)community-led
infrastructure and basic services sub-projects; (ii)         employment-generating labor-based
public works (roads and other rural infrastructure) as well as the construction o f housing
units for vulnerable groups; and (iii)project management and innovative activities,
including capacity building, technical assistance, monitoring and evaluation, and training
at the community level. A recent restructuring3introduced changes to the project's output
indicators, providing the implementing agency - the National Commission for Social
Action (NaCSA) - and the Bank team with a more realistic basis with which to measure
project outputs in light o f steady increases in sub-project costs over the last three years,
while also allowing NaCSA to realign its investments with evolving beneficiary needs
and to enhance its coordination with another Bank-funded project focusing on feeder
roads (the Infrastructure Development Project, IDA Grant No. H191-SL).

16.     The project's performance thus far has been consistently satisfactory, both with
regard to the development objective and to implementation progress. Currently,
disbursements stand at nearly 99 percent o f project funds, with a scheduled closing date
o f 12/31/2008. As o f April 2008: (i)600 community-based subprojects had been
generated (project target is 600), with 473 completed and 66 near completion; (ii)             908
housing units had been built (project target i s 1200); and (iii)          nearly 161 km o f feeder
roads had been rehabilitated (target i s 200 km). Furthermore, more than 145,000 person-
days o f employment have been created on the rural roads component o f the public works
program alone (project target i s 80,000 person-days o f temporary employment).

17.     Inlight ofits strongties to communities andlocalgovernments, experience with
community driven development programs, and partnerships with civil society, the project
provides a strong platform from which to implement safety net interventions inresponse



 Theproject was restructured as a second levelrestructuring on January 3,2008.



                                                   5

to the food price increases. The implementation o f this FPCR TF grant will buildon the
successes to date.

                               G.INSTITUTIONAL     CAPACITY

18.     While Government implementation capacity is often limited in Sierra Leone,
NaCSA stands out as an institution with a long and successfbl experience incoordination
o f humanitarian and social protection activities, both during and after the conflict.
NaCSA has proven itself capable o f effectively managing not only the Bank's funds, but
also those o f other donors: currently, NaCSA implements five different programs with
funding from Islamic Development Bank, Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau (KfW),
African Development Bank, and the Italian Government. The NSAP mid-term review
found NaCSA's performance to be satisfactory on all counts, including fiduciary
management, monitoring and evaluation, and reporting.             The Government o f Sierra
Leone recognized the capacity o f the agency when it extended its mandate until 2018,
and expanded it to include support for local developmentAoca1 councils and social
assistanceprograms for the poor, and for the war reparations effort.



                            3. PROPOSEDCHANGES


19.     The FPCR TF grant will support additional safety net activities under NSAP for
immediate mitigation efforts in response to the food price increases. As the activities
involved would go beyond the targeting and scope o f the original project, it is proposed
that the DO be amended in the existing Development Credit Agreement for NSAP (and
reflected accordingly in the FPCR TF co-financing grant agreement to be signed upon
approval o f the grant by the Executive Directors) as follows: the project's development
objective i s to assist war-affected or otherwise vulnerable communities to restore
infrastructure and services, build local capacity for collective action, and assist
vulnerable households to access temporary employment opportunities, with priority given
to areas not previously serviced by the government, newly accessible areas (those which
were under rebel control until January 2002), food insecure areas,4 and the most
vulnerable population groups within those areas. The new wording o f the DO would
reflect both that the co-financing will target vulnerable communities regardless o f war-
affectedness, and that it will expand the project's focus to enable vulnerable populations
to access temporary employment to bettercope with increased food prices.

20.     The NSAP Results Framework has been slightly modified to reflect the new
activities, and an outcome indicator was added ("75 percent of targeted vulnerable HHs
reporting positive benefits from the cash for work program"), in addition to several
output indicators (see section VI below). The Results Framework was also streamlinedto
better demonstrate the links between project inputs, outputs, and outcomes.           Output


 As definedper the 2007 ComprehensiveFoodSecurity and VulnerabilityAssessment (CFSVA)bythe
WFPFAO.



                                            6

indicators related to the existence o f Project Management Committees in communities
and the percentage o f beneficiaries o f the household program chosen by beneficiary
communities have been deleted, and the output indicator "At least 90 percent o f projects
are assessed as successful by communities" has been relabeled as an outcome indicator.
In addition, the original credit proceeds have been re-allocated to adjust expenditure
categories vis-a-vis actual utilization o f credit per Government request dated June 8,
2008. Category 3 and 5 allocations have been increased whereas Category 1 (a), (b), 2
and3 havebeendecreased as per Table 1.

21.     The emergency safety net response will be delivered through a "Cash for Work"
program aimed at supporting household food access and minimizing the nutritional
impact o f the crisis through incremental income support. The program will be added as
an additional project component under the existing Credit Agreement (becoming `Part D'
o f Schedule 11). The program will consist o f small labor-intensive public works projects
inrural, peri-urban,andurbanareas. Participating workers will receive weekly payment,
in cash, for their labor. The program will build on the project's experience under its
existing rural roads public works scheme (ie., Part B (i)o f the Project as described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement). As with that scheme, all works will
be demand-driven, with specific requests for small works projects originating from and/or
confirmed with relevant communities, chiefdoms, districts, or other local government
authorities. However, the processes governing the new "Cash for Work" program will
differ slightly from those o f the public works component; for example, the wage rate will
be lower (to capitalize on self-targeting), it will be mandated that 30 percent o f
employment be for women, and communities/localities will express their interest to
participate and nominate works projects through a simplified identification and
consultation process. Furthermore, the menu o f works that can be implemented in a
community will be limited to ensure high labor ratios and maximum cash benefits to
program participants. In rural areas, works would probably focus on road and small
bridge rehabilitation, in which case the Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA) would be
brought in at the identification stage to ensure a coherent approach. Works could also
include small irrigation schemes, tree planting and others to be identified by farmers'
organizations as priority needs. Inurban and peri-urban areas, works could include street
cleaning, grass cutting, minor spot repairs on roads, cleaning open drains, and others,
which would be identified inconjunction with urban councils.

22.     NSAP's implementation arrangements, which have proved effective, will be used
for the execution o f the "Cash for Work" program. NaCSA will continue in its role as
executing agency, and will thereby be ultimately responsible for fiduciary management,
monitoring and evaluation, and reporting. As such, project fiduciary management will
remain unchanged. NaCSA will continue to work closely with local authorities, including
the SLRA, and will oversee implementation and provide support where necessary
through its regional network o f technical staff. NaCSA will contract third party
implementing agencies, such as community-based organizations (CBOs), farmers'
organizations, NGOs, or small private contractors to undertake actual implementation o f
works, while NaCSA and local councils will be responsible for supervision and quality
control. All third party implementing agencies will be selected based on their



                                              7

competence, experience, and fiduciary capacity, and all third party implementing
agencies that receive hnds through NaCSA will provide monthly activity summaries and
quarterlyfinancial reports, whichwill be consolidated into quarterly IFRsto be submitted
to IDA.

23.      The existing Operational Manual for the NSAP, which provides details on
eligibility,    targeting,      implementation,         community       involvement,       and     fiduciary
management for the public works program and community sub-projects, will be adjusted
to include the "Cash for Work" program, with changes and additions made regarding
guidelines for roles and responsibilities of NaCSA, local authorities and third party
implementing partners, as well as for the identification and confirmation o f the works
projects, the targeting and enrollment o f program beneficiaries, and contractual
arrangements between NACSA and third party implementing agencies. The
implementation arrangements for the "Cash for Work" program will be incorporated in
the project Operational Manual andsubmitted to IDAby August 4, 2008.

24.       Targeting for the "Cash for Work" program will be achieved through: (i)
geographic selection based on poverty and food insecurity prevalence rates and
population ranking; (ii)wage rate below the average informal day labor rate for casual
                               a
workers; (iii)   the stipulation that minimum 30 percent o f all workers be female; and (iv)
procedures to ensure that only one person per household is employed under the program.
Subject to those conditions, the selection o f workers will be done in such a way as to
maximize transparency; most likely, through the use o f an on-site lottery system. The
program will be implemented inBo, Western rural and urban, Bombali, Kono, Port Loko
andMoyamba.

25.      The closing date for the grant is December 31, 2009. The parent project closing
date will be extended from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009, to coincide with
the closing date o fthe grant.



                                   4. COST IMPLICATIONS


26.      As noted, the Government has requested a reallocation o f IDA credit proceeds,
which will be reflectedinthe amendedCredit Agreement as followss:




 Note that this table also reflects a reallocation request by the Government o f Sierra Leone, received by the
World Bank inJune o f 2008. That request concerned less than 5 percent of credit proceeds.



                                                        8

The proposed safety net intervention to mitigate the short term impact o f the food price
increases will cost US$4 million. The program will enable the Government to respond to
the immediate needs o f the poorest and most food insecure populations, especially inthe
lean season, and in2009 as global food prices are projected to stay at similar highlevels.
The proceeds of the grant will be distributed amongst expenditure categories (as will be
reflected inthe Grant Agreement) as follows6:


                                                                                      Percent o f
                                                                   FPCR         TF    expenditures to be
  ProjectCost by Category                                          Allocation         financed
                                                                                 (US$ million)
  Works under partD,Consultants' Services and Training             3.82               100

  OperatingCosts                                                   0.18               100
  Total ProjectCosts-FPCRTF                                        4.00


                             5. CONSISTENCY WITH CAS


27.      The new activities proposed are hlly consistent with the current CAS (FY06-09).
The second CAS strategic priority i s sustainable growth, food security, andjob creation,
and the cash for work program addresses three related over-arching objectives: reduce the
share o fthe population inpoverty; eliminate food-poverty; andreduce unemployment. As
the co-financing i s responding to a crisis situation, its measures focus on the short term;
however, by supporting public works that improve sanitation and infrastructure and

 Itis intendedthat as soon as the TF Grant becomes effective, it will finance allNSAP-related operating
costs.



                                                   9

providing short term employment and incremental support to household incomes, the co-
financing will also contribute to these goals inthe long-term by mitigating against further
erosions inhuman capital and the asset base o fpoor households.

28.     Notably, the CAS emphasizes the need to strengthen social protection and safety
nets for vulnerable groups, andrecommends the piloting o f innovative strategies to do so.
The public works program will provide experience and lessons in developing and
implementing a longer term social protection strategy, which will be critical to respond to
future crises and shocks.


       6. APPRAISAL OF ADDITIONAL PROJECTACTIVITIES


A. ECONOMICAND FINANCIAL

29.     As highlighted in the Global Food Crisis Response Program document, the
urgency o f a response prohibits quantitative economic appraisal. Instead, a four-part
decision criterion is proposed based on: (1) policy context; (2) target beneficiaries; (3)
expected benefits; and (4) fiscal affordability.

30.     The proposed program is consistent with the framework set out in the Global
Food Crisis Response Program. The overall policy context recognizes the post-conflict
nature o f the client government and the absence o f significant, sustainable alternative
measures. As noted elsewhere, policy aspects concerning import tariffs for rice and flour
are likely to be reviewed to ensure a consistent public policy stance.

31.     Targeting i s explicit inthe design and focuses on the urban and rural poor and the
unemployed. The risk management objective inherent in the "cash for work" program
design will ensure the program delivers both immediate benefits and longer-term
development gains by mitigating the risk o f households utilizing adverse coping
mechanisms such as selling assets, pulling children out o f school, etc. Providing income
through cash-for-work programs could partially mitigate the adverse impact o f inflation
on real incomes and alleviate the potential for unrest. The program will provide de facto
subsidies to poor households.

32.     Fiscal affordability is not an issue since each intervention will be fully funded
from the proposed grant. Continued international support could be anticipated in the
event that food prices continue to surge. N o un-programmed demands for government
resources will be made.

33.     Eachbeneficiary will enroll inthe program for two months and will receive a cash
transfer equivalent to 50 percent o f the poverty line (2004).




                                              10

B.TECHNICAL

34.      The program will draw on the NaCSA and other in-country expertise, while also
utilizing global best practice lessons from public works programs in India and across
Afi-ica. These will be labor intensive works with a minimum o f 60 percent labor content
to maximize benefits to participants. There will be several levels o f targeting for the
selection o f works sites: the districts will be selected based on the food insecurity criteria
established by WFP/FAO and the results o f the 2007 CFSVA, and intra-district targeting
o f sites will be realized in collaboration with communities, the appropriate MDA (e.g.,
SLRA) and local councils. The targeting ofthe beneficiarieswill be realized through self-
targeting, using a below market wage rate to attract the neediest. Each beneficiary will
be allowed to participate inthe program once for duration of two months (50 workdays).
Each household will be eligible to participate with only one member. Incase o f number
o f applicants exceeding the number o f people to be employed, a lottery system will be
utilized to select participants, subject to the stipulation that women should make up 30
percent o fbeneficiariesper project.

35.      Inurbanareas, the works will include cleaning drains, garbage collection, street
cleaning and other urbanmaintenance works, and inrural areas the works will consist o f
rehabilitation o f small access roads, culverts and bridges and small irrigation schemes. A
portion of these works are expected to be temporary works designed to facilitate access to
markets during the rainy season and enable distribution o f food aid inremote areas. The
works will be implementedbyprivate contractors and specialized NGOs and civil society
organizations, and supervised by local councils andNaCSA.

36.      The program is expected to finance about 360 small works projects over a 9-12
month period. Each small works project is expected to employ about 40-50 people
providing a total o f 849,600 person days o f employment over the extension period. With
respect to targeting o f beneficiaries, the program will utilize self-targeting by applying a
slightly below-market wage rate inorder to attract the neediest to the program and avoid
diverting individuals from other productive activities. The wage rate will be adjusted
according to the market conditions inthe program areas. A minimumo f 30 percent quota
for women for each works project will be adhered to.

C.FIDUCIARY

37.      The program will rely on the existing procurement and financial management
arrangements o f NSAP and NaCSA. Details o f financial management and procurement
arrangements are presented below.

                                  I.FINANCIALMANAGEMENT

38.      The project will rely on the existing financial management arrangement o f the
current NSAP, which has been reviewed and rated as satisfactory. A summary o f the key
elements o f the financial management systems o f the implementing entity i s as follows:




                                               11

BudgetingArrangements:The budgeting arrangements for the "Cash for Work"
program will follow the existing budgeting arrangements used for the
implementation o fNSAP, which have been satisfactory. NaCSA has discussed the
distribution and allocation o f resources o f the NSAP with the Bank, and this will
be reflected in the amended DCA for NSAP. Activities under for the `Cash for
Work' program will be assigned best estimated costs and included in the annual
program budget. The procurement planunder preparation will form a good basis
for determining the activities andrealistic costs.

AccountingArrangements:The existing finance and accountingunit o fNaCSA
i s headed by a Director o f Finance and assisted by Finance and Accounts manager
responsible specifically for the fiduciary responsibilities o f this project. The
existing accounting system (Sun Accounts platform) will continue to be used for
recording and reporting on all financial transactions. Our assessment o f the
systems (capturing, bookkeeping and recording) indicates that it is capable o f
accurately processing and reporting on the use o f the project funds in a timely
manner and safeguarding o f the project assets.

Internal Control & InternalAuditing: There is adequate segregation o f duties
and functions within NaCSA to guide correct approvals and authorization o f
project expenditures under the Grant. The Accounts Manuals document the
procedures to guide the all the financial transactions in NaCSA. The various
Forms to be used inprocessing the "Cash for Work" program have already been
designedandthese are now being incorporated inthe manual. At the present time,
NaCSA does not have an internal audit function. Inview o f the added activities, it
will be desirable for the management o f the project to ensure potential risks are
closely monitored and appropriate remedial action taken in a timely fashion.
Annex 3 provides the risk mitigation measures that have been assessed with
regard to the ongoing project. This will be reviewed and updated during regular
supervision o f the Grant. The overall financial management risk for the project i s
rated as Substantial, inview o f the new activities involving the "Cash for Work"
program which NaCSA will be contracting out to specialized agencies (NGO and
CBOs). The suggested mitigating measures will ultimately be expected to reduce
the overall risk level to Moderate. This is a critical indicator o f the resources
required to supervise and monitor FM arrangement for the project during its
implementation. A time bound action plan for the key immediate actions has been
agreed and i s reflected inthe table below.

FinancialManagementAction Plan: The action planbelow indicates the actions
to be taken to strengthen NaCSA financial management system:

                                              Datedueby                   Responsible
                                              Byeffectiveness             NaCSA

                                              Not later than three months NaCSA
                                              after Effectiveness




                                      12

      FundsFlow andDisbursementArrangements:NaCSA will open andmanage a
       Separate Designated Account with a reputable commercial bank acceptable to
      IDA for the purpose o f disbursement o f the FPCR funds. This is to ensure funds
       from the FPCR TF are not mingled with NSAP Credit proceeds and keep the
      transactions under the ongoing operation separate from those financed by the
       Grant. Disbursemento f project proceeds will continue to be on transaction basis,
       and the current level o f Statement o f Expenditures (SOE) threshold will apply for
      the co-financing. Payment processing will be centralized at NaCSA, who will be
      responsible for processing payments to implementing agencies (NGOs, CBOs,
       small enterprises, etc.) inaccordance with the updated Operational Manual. Inthis
      regard, the financial accountant will ensure that the eligibility criteria such as
      minimum controls exist prior to processing the cash transfers. These will include
       the opening o f separate bank accounts by third part implementing partners,
       signatories to the bank accounts and receipt o f approved application forms
       indicating budget and activities.

   0   FinancialReportingArrangements:The Director o fFinancewill beresponsible
       for ensuring that financial transactions are reliable, and they are adequately
       captured and reported in a timely manner. The project will continue to produce
       interim financial management reports (IFRs) on a quarterly basis for submission
       to the IDA, and will include information related to the "Cash for Work" program
       in those reports. The quarterly financial reports will consists o f a statement o f
       cash receipts     and expenditures      described by source     and expenditure
       components/category following the main expenditure classification inthe budget.

   0   Auditing: The Terms o f Reference (TOR) for the current auditor for NSAP will
      be expanded to cover the additional activities related to the "Cash for Work"
       program.    Thus, there will be no change to the reporting or audit report
       requirements. It has also been verified that NaCSA is current in submitting its
       audit reports.


    0  Supervision plan: During implementation o f the program intensive FM
       supervision will be required and it is planned that FM supervision mission will be
       conducted at least twice a year based in view o f the Substantial risk rating
       assigned to project. The FM supervision mission's objectives will include that of
       ensuringthat strong financial management systems are maintained for the project
       throughout project tenure. Visits to the NGOs and FBOs activity sites by the FM
       staffwill also add value to the supervisionwork and help to identify problems and
       resolve them ina timely manner.

39.    In summary, the conclusion of the assessment is that the existing FM
arrangements in NaCSA for the NSAP, which will be used for the additional activities,
are adequate and in compliance with the Bank's minimum requirement under OP/BP
10.02.




                                             13

                                     11. PROCUREMENT

40.     The provision o f additional grant fbnding will not affect the established processes
and procedures which are currently in use for implementing the main project. The
existing procurement arrangements         assessed remain adequate and acceptable.
Procurement will however be guided by the October 2006 versions o f the Guidelines:
Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers; and Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits.

41.     The following steps will be followed:

        1. NaCSA field staff, MDAs and District Councils will collaborate in the
            identification andprioritization o f all works within targeted communities.

        2. NaCSA, with the assistance o f appropriate agency (e.g. SLRA), will finalize
            the scope o f works, bill o f quantities and related tender documents for the
            selected sub-projects.

        3. NaCSA, with assistance o f the appropriate agency, will pre-qualify service
            providers, carry out the bidding process and award contracts in accordance
            with the agreed procurement management requirements. The cost o f each
            contract will be approximately US$lO,OOO and not exceeding US$ 15,000.

        4. Members o f the village andwardcommittees will be involved insimple
            monitoring o f the sub-projects.

        5. NaCSA, supported by the appropriate agency, will carry out technical
            supervision o f the works, including preparation o f valuation certificates for
            payment.

42.     Insummary, the assessment ofthe procurement management arrangements under
the project concludes that there are systems in place that satisfy the Bank's minimum
requirement. Overall procurement management arrangement i s rated as Satisfactory.

43.     Because specific details o f the new activities will be identified only through the
process o f consultation with communities, the general Procurement Plan will be finalized
after signing. A preliminary budget for the new activities is attached as Annex 4.

D.ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL AND

44.     The ongoing NSAP program already has a pilot road rehabilitatiodpublic works
program which was covered under the original environmental assessment. N o new type
o f works will be introduced which was not included under the existing program. All
public works will follow the environmental safety and mitigation guidelines developed
under NSAP. It i s o f note that NaCSA staff has had ongoing support from Bank
safeguards staff over the course o f the project, including help organizing a workshop in



                                             14

2005 concerning the environmental toolkit for monitoring o f safeguards inprojects with
multiple sub-projects prepared by the Africa region.

45.     The "Cash for Work" program will target the most affected poorest groups
including women, youth and children and follow the community driven development
methodology (CDD) which i s currently being used under the NSAP program allowing
communities andbeneficiaries to participate inprogram implementation.


                            7. EXPECTEDOUTCOMES


46.     As the FPCR TF grant co-financing to NSAP is beingprocessed as an emergency
operation, and i s responding to a crisis, its results will be monitored with the use o f fairly
simple indicators. These indicators have been added to the NSAP results framework. (see
Annex 1for the framework). The new indicators include:

    (i) Outcomeindicators
            o 75 percent o ftargeted vulnerable HHs reporting positive benefits from the
                cash for work program

    (ii) IntermediateOutcomeIndicators
            o Person-days o f employment created; and woman-days o f employment
                created
            o At least 75 percent of households in targeted areas are aware o f the cash
                for work program


                             8. BENEFITSAND RISKS


47.     The overall risk rating o f the project will remain "substantial".         Regarding
institutional setup, it has already been noted that NSAP's implementation arrangements
are satisfactory; furthermore, in its capacity as executing agency, NaCSA will build upon
its existing central and regional technical and administrative capacity. Incase o fneed for
increased administrative capacity, NaCSA will have the flexibility to make incremental
adjustments to ensure effective implementation and monitoring o f the additional
activities. The project's financial management arrangements, including accounting,
reporting, and audits, are satisfactory, and will remain unchanged: the financial
management staff and system in place will support the implementation o f additional
activities.

48.     However, at the country level, the financial management risk would be judged as
being high due to the historical weak performance in governance, accountability, anti-
corruption control and public financial management. Key challenges remain regarding
NaCSA's      ability to effectively monitor or supervise the beneficiaries during
implementation in order to ensure that the project meets it stated objectives. As such,



                                                15

overall financial risk remains substantial. (See Annex 3 for a Risk Rating Summary
Table.)

49.      The environmental rating o f the project will remain as Category B as the
additional activities do not constitute any added risk with respect to the environment.
Environmental mitigation measures relating to public works exist as part o f the current
program operational manual.

50.      There may be political risks related to the targeting o f the additional activities,
both in terms o f the focus on food insecure districts, rather than on all districts, and in
terms o f the selection o f specific beneficiaries within targeted districts. To mitigate this
risk, the targeting methodology used for the program will be publicized widely through
sensitization and targeted IEC campaign.

51.      The "Cash for Work" program will benefit close to 100,000 direct and indirect
beneficiaries including unemployed youth, female headed households, and vulnerable
rural and urbanhouseholds. The program will employ about 16,000 beneficiaries over a
9-12 month period. This translates into about 2 percent o f the poorest in Sierra Leone
concentrated in the areas most affected by the food price increases. The "cash for work"
interventions are expected to provide the equivalent o f 30 to 50 percent o f the existing
poverty line (2004)7 which i s likely to have been eroded with the sharp price increases.

52.      The rehabilitated infrastructure will facilitate access to markets and food, support
improved agricultural productivity, and improve sanitation and waste management in
urbanandperi-urbanareas.


                     9. READINESS FORIMPLEMENTATION


The following key documents will be ready by the indicated dates:

    1. RevisedProject Operational Manual: August 4,2008

    2. Procurement Plan: draft available; to be finalized after signing

    3. Budget and Annual Workplan: draft available and attached; to be finalized after
         signing.




'National  Poverty Line (2004): 770,678 Leones per year/ per capita. The magnitude o f the transfer per year
per household will changebasedonthe daily wage rate utilized. A range ofbetween4,500 to 7,500 Leones
per day is expected to be utilized indifferent regions o fthe country.



                                                      16

1O.FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE GRANT CO-
                                FINANCING


53. Standardtrust fundgrant conditions.




                                       17

Annex 1:ResultsFramework

Hierarchy of           Key Performance             Data Collection           Critical
Objectives             Indicators                  Strategy                  Assumptions
Sector-related CAS     Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country           (from Goal to Bank
Goal:                  1. National
Mitigate the risk of      conflict/security        -reports:
                                                      UNHCFUOCHA             -Mission)
                                                                                Continued peace and
renewed conflict and      related indicators          reports                   regional security
lay foundation for     2. Inter-regional           -  Household Income       -  Economicand
poverty reduction         disparities inI-PRSP        and Expenditure           political stability
and improvements in       &PRSP core                  Surveys
nutrition, health and     indicators                  PETSsurveys
education and          3. Inter-regional           -- Strategic Planning
targeting the rural       disparities inPopular       and Action Process
population, women,        Benchmarks                  (SPP) reports
and children.
Project Development    Outcome/ Impact             Project reports:          (from Objectiveto
Objective:             Indicators:                                           Goal)
Assist war-affected or  - Improved social          -  Initial Social            Communities inthe
otherwise vulnerable      capital and                 Assessment (to            NSAP target areas
communities to            organizational              establish indicators      are assistedto ensure
restore infrastructure    development                 and methodologies         a reduced risk o f
and services, build                                   for social capital and    conflict
local capacity for      - Increasedaccess to and      organizational            NaCSA complements
collective action, and    use o f social and          development)              and extends the work
cope with the rising      economic                    Annual social             o f other agencies and
food prices.              infrastructure and          assessments               ministries insupport
                          services                    NaCSA M&E data            o fthe PRSP's
                        -                             M&Edata of                poverty reduction
                          Proportion o fNSAP          relevant line             and decentralization
                          investments targeted to     ministries                objectives
                          newly accessible areas,     Annual social             NaCSA is fully
                          & areaspreviously not       assessments               integratedinto
                          served, andvulnerable       Beneficiary               national planning and
                          people withinthese          Assessment (BAS)          resource allocation
                          areas                       biannually                frameworks (such as
                                                      Participatory             the National
                        - Proportion o fsub-          evaluation reports for    Recovery Strategy,
                          projects that reflect       a random sample o f       the PRSP, andthe
                          priorities o f targeted     assisted communities      MTEF)
                          communities and             Technical audit
                          beneficiaries

                        - Proportion o f sub-
                          projects operative 24
                          months after
                          completion
                        -  At least 90 percent o f
                          projects are assessedas
                          successful by
                          communities (achieve
                          minimumexpected
                          outputs and
                          outcomes/impacts)




                                                  18

                       - 75 percent o ftargeted
                         vulnerable HHs
                         reporting positive
                         benefits fiom the cash
                         for work program

Outputfrom each       Output Indicators:            'roject reports:               Outputs to
Component:                                                                 0(from
                                                                             bjective)
1Community-Driven     la.1At least 600              M&E data;                  Targeting
Program(CDP)          "community based" sub-        NaCSA Progress             mechanisms are
                      projects implemented          :ports                     efficient and
l(a) Rural social and (breakdown by type and                                   implementedwith
economic              location)                                                minimalpolitical
infrastructureand                                                              interference
services are
established, upgraded la.2 At least 90 percent o f  Annual technical audit     Lineagencies andor
andused.              completed sub-projects                                   other local
                      conform to ministry                                      authorities provide
                      standards, designs and                                   resources and staff to
                      norms                                                    operate and maintain
                                                                               facilities (e.g.
                                                                               provision o f teachers
                                                                               and textbooks inthe
                                                                               case o fprimary
                                                                               schools)



l(b) Targeted         lb.2 All supported            Beneficiary/ impact        Sub-projects reflect
communitiesare        communities have              ssessments and other       beneficiary needs
empoweredto carry     conducted participatory       valuation reports          and improvedaccess
out priority          needs assessments and                                    to social and
investments.          project identification                                   economic services
                      usingPPA approach;


2. Pilot and Special                                                           PPA methodology i s
ProgramsinNewly                                                                internalized by
AccessibleAreas                                                                NaCSA and partners




                                                                               Capacity building
                                                                               efforts provided
                                                                               andor coordinated
                                                                              byNaCSA are
                                                                               appropriate and
                                                                               effective

                      2a.1 200 lan. o f feeder      Supervision missions
                      roads rehabilitated.          Beneficiary
                                                    issessments            - NaCSA's    commitment
2(a) RuralPublic      2a.2 90,000 person days       NSAP quarterly         to pilot both programs
Works Program:        o ftemporary                  rogress reports        remains strong



                                                  19

                        employment created            - ParticipatoryM&E
Infrastructure                                        results
constructed andor       2.a3 30,000 "woman
upgradedusing labor     days" o ftemporary            - Continuous  social
intensive techniques.   employment created            assessment process
                                                      - ParticipatoryM&E
                        2a.5 90% o f completed        results
                        sub-projects are of
                        satisfactory technical
                        quality or better


                        2b.l At least 1200            - Supervision missions     - NaCSA   contracts
                        housing unitsbuilt by end     - NSAP   quarterly         experienced and
                        o f year 2 o fproject         reports;                   qualifiedPartners to
2(b) Shelter Program                                    Annual technical audits  implement program
for Vulnerable          2b.2 90 percent o fhouses    -- NaCSA   M&Edata
Groups                  sustain two or more rainy
                        seasons
Permanent housing
needs of targeted       2b.3 100percent o f
vulnerable groups       housesbenefit
satisfied               marginalized population
                        groups (female headed
                        households, disabled and
                        their
                        families)




3. Project
Management and                                          Supervision missions     - Qualified
InnovativeActivities    3a.1 80 percentage o f       -- NSAP   quarterly         implementing partners
                        capacity-building events      progress reports           available to provide
3(a) Capacities of      judged successful by                    technical audits capacity building and
communities,            participants                 -- Annual
                                                        Progress reports         IEC activities at all
chiefdoms, and                                       submittedby                 levels
district authorities to                               implementing partners      - A qualified full-time
select, implement and                                - Beneficiary               M&Especialist is
maintainprojects                                                                 providedto NaCSA by
establishedand                                       -assessments
                                                        NaCSA M&Edata            another donor agency
strengthened

                                                                                 - Non-NSAP activities
                                                                                 undertaken by NaCSA
                                                                                 do not detract from
                                                                                 NaCSA ability to
                                                                                 implement project
                                                      - NaCSA administrative
                        3b. 1 At least 40 percent o f
                        HHsare aware of               -data
                                                        Capacity building
                        program                       event assessments
3(b) Information,                                     - Participatoryproject
Educationand            3b.2 At least 60 percent o f  completion reviews



                                                    20

Communication          chiefdom and district       - IDA supervision
                       governments aware o f       missions
                       NSAP coverage,
                       targeting, methodology,
                       andresults                                               .NaCSA maintains lean
                                                                               mdefficient
                       3b.3 At least 30 percent of                              xganizational structure
                       general public aware o f
                       NSAP program and
                       results

                                                   - Beneficiary

                       3c.1M&Ereports used         -assessments
                                                     NaCSA administrative
3(c) Performanceof     for decision-making by      data
community sub-         NaCSA                       - IDA aide-memoires
projectsand NSAP                                                 status reports
partners monitored                                 -andproject
                                                      Public opinion survey
and evaluatedin
order to improve
program
effectiveness.


3(d) Technical
Assistance services
effectivelyprovided
to supportprogram
implementation


                       3e.l Project management     -- NaCSA    M&Edata
                                                      IDA aide-memoires
3(e) NaCSA             costs (NaCSA staff          and project status reports
managementsystems      salaries at all levels as
functioning            well as operating
effectivelyto ensure   expenditures)are less
programsuccess         than 10percent of total
                       project costs
                                                   - IDAProject    Status       -Targeting mechanisms
                                                   reports (including           ensure that programs
4. FoodPrice                                                       reports)     benefit the most food
Response                                           -disbursement
                                                      NaCSA proposed            insecure
                       4a. 1 849,OO person days    annual work program          -There i s sufficient food
4(a) Cashfor Work      of temporary                andbudget                    available inthe market
program                employment created                      audit reports    incashfor work areas
Creation o f temporary                             -- Annual
                                                       GOSL semi-annual
employment for small   4a.2 254,880 "woman         PETS reports
urban and ruralpublic  days" o f temporary         --- NaCSA
                                                       Supervision missions
works                  employment created                      M&E data
                                                       Annual technical audit
                       4a.3 At least 75 percent of  -Beneficiary/ impact
                       HHintarget areas are         assessmentsand other
                       aware o f the program        -evaluation reports
                                                       Participatory M&E
                                                   results



                                                  21

Annex 2: ProjectCosts (TotalProject)




ProjectCost by Sub-component                                   US$ millions
1. CommunityDevelopmentProgram                                 26.00
2. PilotandSpecialPrograms                                     4.00
a. Labor Intensive Public Works                                2.00
b. Shelter                                                     2.00
3. ProjectManagementwith InnovativeApproaches                  9.00
a. Capacity Building                                           2.00
b. IEC                                                         0.40
c. Monitoring andEvaluation                                    0.40
d. Beneficiary and social assessments, financialandtechnical   1.oo
      audits. PPAs. micro-finance




TotalBaselineCost                                              43.00
PhysicalContingencies                                          2.0
PriceContingencies                                             1.o
TotalProiectCost                                               46.00




                                           22

Annex 3: Risk RatingSummary Table (Total Project)

                                 RISK RATING SUMMARYTABLE'

Type of Risk              Risk            RiskMitigating                  Conditionsfor        Residual
                          Rating          MeasureslHernarks               Negotiationor        RiskRatin$
                                                                          Effectiveness
                                                                          (YeS/NV)
Inherent Risk
Country Level
Weaknesses in                  H          There i s a an inherent risk            No                   S
public financial                          that government entities are
management by                             too weak to fulfill their
state institutions                         functions, implement
due to lack o f                           project activities, and to
capacity.                                 comply with Bank's
Issuesof                                  environmental, social and
accountability and                         fiduciary safeguards
transparency in
PFM.                                       Strengthening the role of
                                          the public institutions inFM
                                          capacity buildingthrough
                                          ongoing reforms inthe
                                          public financial
                                          manaeement.
EntityLevel
Potential                      H          The current project                     No                  M
weaknessesinFM                            management unit structure
capacity at the                           underNSAP will beused
NSAP for                                  and we expect the
monitoring                                experience gained inCDP
beneficiary agencies                      will bebeneficial.
inthe local
councils.
Project Level
Being an                       S          The needto get all                      No                   S
emergency                                 stakeholders involved and
operation, there is                       committed especially at the
the riskassociated                        local council level.
with inexperience
and poor                                  The existing financial and
coordination.                             internal control procedures
                                          incorporate FMprocedures
Delays inrelease of                       to guide fundtransfer to
funds to                                  communities and this
beneficiaries.                            should help minimize
                                          delays. Supervision and


8This table pertains to the totality o f the NSAPproject and not only to the risks associated with the "Cash
for Work" activities.



                                                       23

Type of Risk         Risk   Rlsk Mitigating               Conditionsfor    Residual
                     Rating MeasureslRemarks              Negotiationor    RiskRating
                                                          Effectiveness
                                                           ( Y e S M O )
                            monitoring will be hastened
                            to ensure efficiency inthe
                            transfers.                                    I
OverallIR               H                                                      S
ControlRisk
Budgeting
Delays inpreparing      S   Detail allocation o f funds             No         M
detailed and quality        will be completed before
budget estimates            the grant i s declared
and fund                    effective. Activities will be
distribution plans.         identified and costed for
                            each component.

Accounting
Accounting staff        S   The NaCSA staff has                     N o        M
may not have                experience with NSAP and
sufficient                  has been trained and i s
experience inBank           familiar with World Bank
disbursement and            procedures.
procedures.

Internal
ControlsDnternal        S   Project will use the existing           N o        M
Auditing                    FMarrangements as
Riskofnon                   documented inthe Project
compliance with             Manuals for the ongoing
internal control            World Bank supported
procedures and              parent project.
overriding existing
controls under the          There i s adequate
pretext o f an              segregation o f duties within
emergency                   NSAP to ensure reasonable
response.                   level o f an internal control
                            fi-amework.

FundsFlow
Projectmay not
submit withdrawal      M    Delays inprocessingWA                  N o         M
applications on             are a systemic problem in
timely basis,               Sierra Leone and being
thereby causing             addressed by the MoFD.
possible delays in          Project will liaise with the
implementation.             LGFDto facilitatetransfers
Delay in lead entity        to Local Councils.
could imuact on the         Close supervision by the




                                          24

Type of Rtsk                      RiskMitigating
                                  MeasuredRemarks


effectiveness o f the             project coordinator and
other implementing                monitoring by the TTL and
agencies                          the FMteam inFreetown
                                  will ensure delays are
                                  Drevented.
Financial
Reporting                  S                                        No    M
Quality and                       The existing IFRformats
timeliness in                     will be modified to reflect
submittingIFRand                  the expenditure from this
other reports.                    project.
There i s likelihood
that poor record                  Reportingfrom other
keepingby                         implementing agencies and
implementing                      partners (NGOs and FBOs)
partners                          will be regularly sought and
(at decentralized                 preferably on a month by
levels, NGOs,                     month basis. Subsequent
FBOsmay delay                     transfers to the agencies and
accountability and                partners will be subject to
slow flow o f funds               timely reporting by them to
                                  the lead entity.
Auditing
Delays inthe               S      The current audit                 N o    M
submission o f audit              arrangements (TOR) will be
reports and the                   expanded to cover the co-
timeliness o f                    financing and the special
management follow                 nature o f activities will be
upon audit issues.                noted inthe TOR for the
                                  auditor to ensure timely
                                  report that also include
                                  activities at the community
                                  level bv NGOs and FBOs.
Overall Risk               S                                              M
Rating

H-High            S - Substantial       M-Modest                L-Low




                                                25

NATIONAL                                                              I          I
SOCIAL
ACTION
PROJECT :
ExtensionJuly
2008 - Dec.2009




             ItedActivity Description                      Unit Cost              Total Cost
                                                            (Us$)
                                                  Quantity                (US$)           (SLLe)


A. "CASH FOR WORK" Program
                                                                     I             I
1. Small labor-intensive publicworks projects     360                                    10,620,000,000

*Labour                                                    60%                            6.372.000.000




                                                                       1,440,000

"CASH FOR WORK" Pro ram (Direct Cost)                                                       .  .    .
                                                                       3,600,000




*Implementation Strategy & Complementary Roles    7        200                                4,130,000
                                                                       1,400
Sub-Total(Indirect Cost)                         I                                            3,990,000
                                                                       1,400


2. For Field-Staff/Implementing Partners

*ImplementationStrategyandMonitoring&             7        200                                4,130,000
supervision                                                            1,400
Sub-Total(Indirect Cost)                                                                      4,130,000




C. MANAGEMENT COSTS

JSuDervisionand Coordination)

1. HQ

1.1 CDP Directorate



                                                  26

 1.1.1 Per Diems

 *Director                                         72
                                                         33.9      2,44 1
 *ProgrammeEngineer                                72                                   5,779,525
                                                         27.1      1,953
 *M&E Manager                                      72
                                                         27.1      1,953
 *Driver                                           72
                                                         16.9      1,220 -
 Sub-Total (Direct Cost)



 1.1.2 Fuel & Lubricants
I* Fuelfor vehicle (Field-trip)                   I
                                                 I 720  I         I
                                                                                       14,256,000




                                                                                       24,624,000




                                                                          14,448,8141
                                                                         +14,448,8141
                                                                         4   8,850,000



 Sub-Total CDP Directorate                                         23,766              70,3 18,475



 1.3. FieldVisits by Parliarnentarv Over-sight
 Committee
 1.3.1 PerDiemfor Committeemembers                 60    33.9     I                     6,020,339
                                                                   2,034
 1.3.2 per Diemfor Driver                         1 5   I 16.9                            250,847
                                                                   85
 1.3.3 Fuelfor vehicles                            200   5.9                            3,49 1,797
                                                                   1,180
 Sub-Total                                                                              9,762,983
                                                                   3,298


 2. RegionalOffices
                                                                   24,000

 2.1 Perdiems                                      3      11%
                                                                   2640
 2.2 Fuel & Lubricants                             3     58%
                                                                   13,920
 2.3 Maintenanceof Vehicles & Equipments           3      18%                12,787,200.00
                                                                   4,320



                                                   27

2.4 Stationery & Offices Supplies                  3    7%                    4,972,800
                                                                 1,680
2.5 Bills (Electricity, Water, Telephones etc.)    3    6%                    4,262,400.00
                                                                 1,440
Sub-Total                                                        24,000       72,040,000.00




Sub-Total                                                                    I424,800,000        I

2. Field

2.1 Regional Coordinators                          36    1,440   51,840       152,928,000.00

2.2 District Coordinators                          84    1,200   100,800      297,360,000.00

2.3 Clerk-of-Works                                 84   300      25,200       74,340,000.00

Sub-Total                                                        177,840      524,628,000.00



Total                                                            321,840      949,428,000.00



TOTAL (DirectCost)                                               3,645,763    10,754,999,419.00




                                                  28

TOTAL (Indirect Cost)                   354,442    1,049,148,814.00



GRAND-TOTAL(Direct & Indirect)          4,000,205  11,800,603,811.00



EFFICIENCY RATIO                        0.089




                                  29



