FLE CoPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1591a-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
ETHIOPIA
FOR
A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
May 14, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                                    -  2.07 Ethiopian Dollars (Eth.$)
Eth. $1.00                                 =  US$0.48
Eth.$ 1 million                           =   US$480,000
Government of Ethiopia
Fiscal Year    _
July 8 - July 7



INTERNATIONAL DEW1F.0,PMENT ASSOCIATION
P>. ';PTr AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXFCUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPNNT CREDIT
TO ETHIOPIA FOR A
FOURTT'h EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the foll1owing report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for the equivalent of US$23.0 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a fourth education project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Events in Ethiopia during the past year have been dominated by the
political revolution which began in late February 1974. Widespread political
and economic discontent, inflamed by the Government's slow response to the
famine in the drought areas of Wollo and Tigre provinces, and to other press-
ing economic and social needs, gave rise to demonstrations in the streets of
Addis Ababa. Riots over the cost of living, strikes by teachers, taxi drivers
and others, and pay mutinies by the armed forces, led to a general military
revolt that precipitated the resignation of the cabinet on February 27. From
February to September a new cabinet, appointed by the Emperor and apparently
acceptable to the armed forces, administered the country, but power gravitated
increasingly to the military.
3.        The first actions of the new cabinet were to grant pay increases
to the armed forces, police, teachers and civil servants, and to promise
political and social reforms, including a new constitution and a free press.
In spite of these moves, political and economic unrest, as well as criticism
of the regime, continued through the spring. In late April, at the demand
of the armed forces, the Emperor agreed to the arrest of some 20 former
ministers and certain military officers on charges of corruption. From June
through September the armed forces ordered further arrests of some 200 con-
servative leaders, including senators, provincial governors and members of
the Emperor's Crown Council. Additionally, they moved to take over or
dissolve the institutions used by the Emperor to rule the country. Finally
in September the armed forces arrested the Emperor, suspended the constitution
and Parliament, and proclaimed rule by a Provisional Military Administrative
Council (PMAC) pending the election of a new parliament and the approval of
a new constitution. General Aman Michael Andom, the Defense Minister, was
appointed head of the Provisional Government. The former Prime Minister
was appointed Minister of Information and other cabinet ministers, government
officials and civil servants were requested to continue in their posts.



-2-
4.        On November 23, the revolution, which until then had been almost
completely bloodless, took a violent turn. In an apparent confrontation
over control of the revolution, the PMAC attempted to arrest General Aman,
who was killed in an ensuing gun battle. Following the death of General Aman,
the Provisional Government, apparently fearing a counter-revolutionary coup,
carried out summary executions of 59 political prisoners, including two former
prime ministers, other former ministers, provincial governors, senior army
officers and aristocrats. The killing of Aman and the executions sent shock
waves through Ethiopia and the international community. In recognition of
the adverse reaction at home and abroad, the Government declared that all
prisoners still being held would be given a fair trial. Recently, however,
the press has reported that persons caught organizing armed opposition to
Government reform measures have been executed.
5.        On December 20 the PMAC declared that Ethiopia would become a
socialist state. This was followed on January 1, 1975, by a decree nation-
alizing the financial sector (banks, insurance companies and savings asso-
ciations). In early February some 100 medium- and large-scale manufacturing
and distributing firms owned by Ethiopians and foreigners were nationalized;
seventy-two were taken over entirely, and the Government acquired a majority
ownership in twenty-nine others. The Government declared its intention to
pay full compensation.
6.        In early February, fighting broke out between the armed forces and
the Eritrean Liberation Front. Most of the fighting has been concentrated
in and around the principal city of Asmara, which is still held by the
Government. At this time fighting apparently continues, but since no inter-
national press coverage is permitted, little is known about the situation.
7.        On March 4, 1975 the PMAC issued the long-awaited land reform
proclamation which nationalized all land and restricted individual holdings
to a maximum of 10 hectares. This brought to an end the old feudal structure
of land ownership under which about 90 percent of the rural population were
engaged in agriculture as tenants. In preparation for this step, the Govern-
ment had replaced the old provincial and district governors with carefully
chosen administrators who were given training and orientation in land reform
and other rural development measures. In addition, about 30,000 students were
sent to the rural areas for the purpose of explaining to the peasant farmers
the implications and benefits of land reform while participating in a work
campaign for rural development. There have been, not unexpectedly, some
reports of resistance and opposition to the land reform measures, but it
appears the measures have received general acceptance by the vast majority
of the Ethiopian population. Another development in early March was a change
in the civilian cabinet which brought in a number of well trained technocrats
who had in their previous positions demonstrated considerable ability and
achievement.
8.        Throughout this period of upheaval, the civilian cabinet and the
Ethiopian bureaucracy have continued to function reasonably well. The Govern-
ment's takeover of banks and industries has led to a diversion of some scarce,



- 3 -
trained manpower from Government ministries to the management of the national-
ized enterprises. In addition, the Government has transferred a large number
of officials from the ministries and other government agencies to local govern-
ment institutions as a part of a government program to decentralize functions
to the district-and sub-district levels.    The effect of these transfers on the
efficiency of operation of the ministries and agencies of the central govern-
ment is not immediately clear but some loss of efficiency is likely.
9.        In this changing atmosphere, Bank Group operations for the most part
have proceeded satisfactorily. Appraisals and supervisions are continuing to
proceed normally, and an economic updating mission visited the country in March.
Regarding existing projects, the execution of two projects (Humera Agricultural
Development, IDA Credit 188-ET, and the Lower Adiabo, IDA Credit 516-ET) have
been adversely affected due to their proximity to Eritrea. Other projects
have not been seriously affected by recent developments, and decisions have
continued to be made and normal work has continued. The Government has
indicated to us that, despite its preoccupation with political events, it is
desirous of pursuing an accelerated program of economic development, with
emphasis on the lower-income groups.
10.       A report, "Recent Economic Performance and Future Prospects in
Ethiopia," Report No. 9a-ET (R73-162) was circulated on June 15, 1973.
Annex I contains country data.
11.       Ethiopia, with an annual per capita income of only US$80 in 1972,
is classified by the UN as one of the 25 least developed countries of the
world. The population is predominantly rural and depends on agriculture for
its livelihood. In recent years the agricultural sector has contributed
50 to 60 percent of GDP and over 90 percent of export earnings. The leading
exports are coffee, hides and skins, pulses and oilseeds. Manufacturing,
including handicrafts and small-scale industries, contributes only 10 percent
of GDP, and the output of the mining sector is negligible.
12.       An estimated 85 to 90 percent of the people are subsistence farmers
living in isolated rural villages.   Although some large commercial farms did
exist, most farming units were small. A recent survey in one province showed
that 92 percent of the cultivated holdings were less than one hectare. Agri-
cultural productivity is, in general, very low. Methods of cultivation used
by most farmers have changed little over many centuries; the soils in many
highland areas are seriously depleted from prolonged overgrazing and over-
cropping, and the prevailing systems of land tenure generally did not provide
adequate incentives for investments which would raise farmers' productivity.
The development of agriculture is also inhibited by the lack of transportation.
There are few secondary and tertiary roads, and perhaps three-fourths of
Ethiopia's farms are more than one-half day's walking distance from a road.
This means transport costs are often too high to make it profitable for
subsistence farmers to expand production for the market. As a consequence,



-4-
there has been little or no improvement in rural living standards in recent
years. Difficult though the development of agriculture may be, the lack of
other resources means progress in developing the Ethiopian economy rests
almost entirely on developing agriculture.
13.       The land reform proclamation mentioned in paragraph 7 has major
implications for the development of agriculture and the rural economy. As
noted, all rural land has been nationalized. Farm families are to be given
user-rights on land up to a maximum of 10 hectares. Subject to this ceiling,
sufficient land for maintenance of family will be allotted to cultivators;
previous landowners will also be eligible for such allocation. All land must
be cultivated by family labor; land cannot be sold or transferred, but children
would have the same user-rights in the land as their parents. In communal and
nomadic areas peasants and pastoralists will have rights to use of the land
for cultivation and grazing; they will be encouraged to form peasant associa-
tions, to organize cooperative farms and otherwise cooperate in the use of
grazing and water rights. In settled areas, peasants' associations will be
formed around 800-hectare blocks of land. These associations will distribute
the land to the cultivators, establish judicial committees to hear land dis-
putes arising within the area, establish credit and marketing cooperatives,
and assist in building schools, clinics and the like. Peasants' associations
will also be established at the awraja (district) and wereda (sub-district)
levels; they will appoint judicial committees which will adjudicate land
disputes brought to them directly or on appeal from lower levels. Civil
courts will have no jurisdiction on matters relating to rural land. The
Government will have responsibility for settling peasants and establishing
cottage industries to accommodate those who cannot be allotted sufficient
land.
14.       The ultimate disposition of large-scale farms is not entirely clear.
The proclamation provides that large-scale farms shall be owned and run by
the State or by cooperatives or distributed to tillers for individual use.
The Government is now assigning managers to some of these farms, which will
be operated as state farms under the supervision of the Ministry of National
Resource Development. The Government will pay appropriate compensation
for movable property and permanent works on all nationalized land, but no
compensation will be paid for land.
15.       In the short run, the land reform measures may result in some dis-
ruption in agricultural production because of problems relating to making
credit, work animals, implements, fertilizer, seeds and pesticides available.
These requirements are being met in some parts of the country under the
Minimum Package Program and a few comprehensive agricultural development
projects like the Wolamo Agricultural Development Project and the Chilalo
Agricultural Development Project. However, in large parts of the country,
these requirements have traditionally been met by landlords, and such arrange-
ments have been disrupted. The proposed peasants' associations are intended
to form the nuclei of cooperative societies for channeling required inputs



-5-
and possibly also for storage and marketing. However, a large force of
trained extension workers will be required, along with credit and storage
facilities and timely supply of inputs, to keep planting and production
going. An effective nationwide organization to plan, program and provide a
wide variety of services to the rural areas has to be built up. In the long
run, the distribution of land to the cultivator should lead to increased
incentives, efficiency and better morale for the peasant farmer and ulti-
mately to a better life in the rural areas.
16.       The Ethiopian population of approximately 27 million (mid-1974
estimate) is heavily concentrated in the youngest age groups, with 45 percent
under the age of 15. As a result of this age distribution, the proportion
of the population which is economically active is relatively low and the
dependency ratio is correspondingly high. Average life expectancy at birth
is only 39. The urban population presently comprises less than 10 percent
of the total, but it is growing at an estimated rate of 6.5 percent per annum.
At this rate the urban population will rise from 2.3 million in 1970 to almost
6 million by 1985. While there are no comprehensive data on employment and
unemployment, it is evident that opportunities in the towns have not kept
pace with the supply of workers with the result that urban unemployment is
growing. There is also significant underemployment in both the rural and
urban areas. Fragmentary evidence suggests that maldistribution of income
has increased in recent years. Although data on wages are scanty, they
suggest that the income of agricultural laborers and unskilled workers in
general have been virtually stagnant at a low level. The slow growth of
agriculture where the majority of the people are engaged, the unchanging
rural wage, and apparently rising urban unemployment, are indications of a
worsening of income distribution.
17.       While enrollment in primary schools has risen at an average rate of
11 percent per annum over the last 15 years, only about 20 percent of primary
school-age children (ages 7-12) were enrolled in 1973-74. Only about 6 percent
of the secondary-school-age population attends school, and the adult literacy
rate is estimated to be only 7 percent. Inequality of educational opportuni-
ties between rural and urban areas remains a serious problem, and achieve-
ments in the special adult literacy program lag substantially behind targets.
Thus, despite creditable efforts on the part of the Government, overall edu-
cational attainment remains low in comparison with the rest of Africa and the
developing world in general.
18.       Ethiopia's First and Second Development Plans gave priority to the
development of infrastructure and to the establishment of manufacturing
industries (mainly government-financed) based on import substitution. The
Third Plan (FY69-74) emphasized more balanced development of agriculture and
industry, and the new Government is expected to give increased attention to
agriculture, rural education, rural health and water supplies, and to other
activities such as rural roads which directly support agricultural develop-
ment. During the past two decades, the Government has made efforts to
accelerate the pace of development by controlling expenditures on defense,



- 6 -
increasing expenditures on education, introducing some new taxes (including
an agricultural income tax), and improving the effectiveness of the public
service. However, these efforts have been only a beginning, and progress to
date has generally fallen short of objectives. There are severe institutional
shortcomings in Ethiopia; institutions are changing slowly, and the modest
pace of institutional improvement has inhibited economic growth. Additional
constraining factors in the past have been inadequate levels of domestic
savings and low absorptive capacity.
19.       During the period 1961-1968, the GDP grew at an average rate of
4.7 percent per year in real terms. However, during the first five years of
the Third Plan (FY69-73), the average rate of growth was only 3.9 percent,
well below the Plan target of 6 percent. With population expanding at an
estimated 2.4 percent per year, growth in per capita incomes has been low,
varying from about 2.5 percent per year in the early 1960's to 1.5 percent
or less in recent years (as compared to the Third Plan target of 3.5 percent).
20.       One cause of slow growth in GDP during the first four years of the
Third Plan period was the slow expansion of exports. During 1968-71 export
earnings increased by only 5.6 percent per year compared with the Plan target
of 8 percent, and export volume grew at a disappointing rate of only 2.5 percent.
In 1972-74, however, the situation has been much improved due both to higher
prices for Ethiopia's traditional exports of coffee, hides and skins, oilseeds
and pulses, and to increases in the volume of exports (except coffee). Total
commodity exports increased from US$125 million in 1971 to US$167 million in
1972, US$240 million in 1973 and to US$305 million (estimated) in 1974, while
imports rose much more slowly, from US$188 million in 1971 to US$268 million
(estimated) in 1974. Largely as a result of these trade surpluses, net foreign
exchange reserves increased from US$51 million at the end of 1971 to US$300
million at the end of 1974.
21.       The medium-range balance of payments forecast for Ethiopia was
favorable until the recent increases in petroleum prices and the attendant
rises in the costs of fertilizers, chemicals, and other intermediate goods.
While it now appears that Ethiopia will be able to meet the added cost of
petroleum imports in the short run, despite an increase from about US$16-20
million in 1971 and 1972 to US$40 million in 1973 and to an estimated US$60
or US$70 million in 1974, in the longer run the terms of trade are likely to
turn sharply against her. The Bank's latest commodity price forecasts indicate
that Ethiopia's terms of trade index will decline from a base of 100 in 1974
to 80 in 1980. This substantial deterioration in the terms of trade, other
things equal, could produce a reversal of recent current account surpluses.
22.       Another cause of the disappointing growth of the Ethiopian economy
in recent years has been the failure to reach investment targets for both
the public and private sectors. The gross investment rate increased steadily
from 12 percent in 1961 to 14.4 percent in 1967, but since then has fallen
back to an average of 12 percent in 1970-72. Similarly, the share of domestic



savings in GDP increased from 11 percent in 1961 to 12.5 percent in 1968, but
has fallen below 12 percent in more recent years. Central Government capital
expenditures averaged only Eth$109 million a year over the six years of the
Third Plan (FY69-74) as compared with an initial plan objective of Eth$190
million per year. Despite this shortfall, however, the Government was able,
during the Plan period, to raise the level of investment spending from Eth$65
million in FY69 to Eth$130 million in FY73.
23.       Because of the low domestic savings capacity, the Government depends
heavily upon foreign borrowing to finance the public investment program.
Foreign loans and credits accounted for 33 percent of public capital expendi-
tures in FY69-74. However, annual gross public capital inflows have been only
about US$1.32 per capita over the past five years. Very few developing
countries receive so little aid on a per capita basis. Unlike many other
African countries which were formerly dependent, Ethiopia hap no traditional
source of technical and financial help. For this reason, a relatively high
level of assistance from the Bank Group is justified. The Bank/IDA share of
public capital inflows has increased from about 25 percent in 1962-65 to
35 percent in 1966-69 and to approximately 40 percent in 1970-73. In addi-
tion, to assist Ethiopia in obtaining additional external assistance, the
Bank has sponsored a Consultative Group of aid donors. The second meeting
of this Group, under the Bank's chairmanship, was held in July 1973.
24.       It must be recognized that Ethiopia has faced, and still faces,
serious constraints in manpower, resources and institutions. In certain
areas, such as education, foreign trade, tax collections and overall public
investment, significant progress has been made. Viable institutions have
been built up in the highways sector, power and telecommunications, and both
intensive and extensive agricultural development programs have been launched
successfully. A basis exists upon which the new Government can build an
accelerated development effort, with emphasis on the rural areas. If such a
program is undertaken, a substantially increased volume of foreign assistance
will be needed. Because of Ethiopia's poverty, it is desirable that future
inflows should be provided to the greatest extent possible on concessionary
terms. Furthermore, it is appropriate that external donors should finance a
large proportion of the costs of projects, including local costs.
25.       Finally, a serious drought during 1972 and 1973 culminated in
famine conditions in large areas of Wollo and Tigre provinces in 1973 and
early 1974. It has not been possible to quantify accurately the economic
impact or the loss of life, but the effects have been unquestionably grave.
While rainfall during 1974 was adequate throughout most of the original
drought regions, it will require perhaps as long as three to five years for
agricultural production to return to pre-drought levels. The Bank Group is
assisting in the drought rehabilitation program through a US$10 million IDA
credit which was approved in June 1974.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
26.       From 1950 to the present, Bank Group lending in Ethiopia has totalled
US$298 million, comprised of eighteen IDA credits totalling US$189 million and
twelve Bank loans totalling US$109 million. Additionally, the IFC has made
five commitments in Ethiopia totalling US$15.7 million. One-half of the amount
of lending (US$145 million) was committed in the last three years. In addition
to the substantial increase in the size of its operations in the last three
years, the Bank Group has softened its terms to Ethiopia; all but US$10.8
million of FY72's US$49.5 million program and all of FY73's US$53 million and
FY74's US$43.4 million programs were IDA credits.
27.       Until the late 1960's, our help concentrated on assisting the
construction of trunk roads, power and telecommunication facilities. In the
late 1960's, our program shifted in emphasis to agriculture and education,
and in the past five years we have made ten credits for agricultural develop-
ment totalling US$82.3 million and two credits for education totalling US$19.5
million. In addition, in 1972 we made a US$17 million credit for transporta-
tion with emphasis on the construction of agricultural roads. This program
reflects the increased opportunity for agricultural lending brought about by
improved sectoral knowledge, and the heavier emphasis on agriculture and edu-
cation in the Government's priorities. This shift has been greatly assisted
by the Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA), which has played a
major role in project identification and preparation in the agricultural
sector.
28.       Implementation of Bank Group-financed projects is generally satis-
factory.  Using the rate of credit disbursements as a measure of implementa-
tion, the pattern of disbursement in Ethiopia falls within the norm of the
Bank Group as a whole. Implementation problems are generally concerned with
delays in effectiveness and in initiation of project works rather than with
problems of a technical nature. Delays in effectiveness have in the past
been largely caused by delays in parliamentary ratification, while delays in
implementation have been related to slowness in initiating and completing
start-up activities, such as the appointments of consultants and project staff
and the issuance of invitations to bid. Generally, however, once project
staffs are mobilized and initial activities are underway, implementation
is good. We are faced however with substantial cost overruns on three Bank
Group-financed projects, the Amibara Irrigation Project (Credit No. 418-E2),
the Addis Ababa Water and Sewage Project (Loan No. 818-Et , and the Fifth
Highway Project, (Credit No. 332-EI). Additionally it appears that price
escalations will necessitate cutbacks and restructuring of other projects.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1975 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
29.       In addition to its lending program, the Bank is pursuing a number
of activities to support the Government's development strategy. As already
mentioned, a mission visited Ethiopia to make a comprehensive study of the



agricultural sector. The Bank is executing agency for the UNDP project to
help the Government in improving its planning, and the Bank has supplied
advisors in project identification and preparation to the Planning Commission
and the Ministry of Agriculture.
30.       Lending to Ethiopia increased during FY72-74, and further expansion
of the lending program is planned for the future if reasonable stability pre-
vails. Since the economy is essentially agricultural, and because agriculture
offers the greatest opportunities for development and for improving income
distribution and employment, the main thrust of our lending program will be
in that sector. A second sector of priority is the education sector where
the Government is planning major investments to make education more relevant
to development and more equitably available. Given the inadequate infra-
structure of the country, and the low level of foreign and domestic capital
available for investment, we shall also continue to provide some assistance
to the development of other sectors, and to investment in the infrastructure
which is necessary to support development. In order to relieve the constraint
caused by Ethiopia's limited capacity to prepare and implement projects,
especially in education and agriculture, we intend to continue providing
technical assistance in project preparation, and to help strengthen through
technical assistance the administrative capacity in the beneficiary institu-
tions so that they will be able to utilize larger flows of assistance. In
our lending for infrastructure, we plan to continue lending to such institu-
tions as the Ethiopian Highway Authority (EHA), the Board of Telecommunications
of Ethiopia (BTE), and the Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority (EELPA).
These are institutions with which the Bank has worked for some years and which
now have substantial capacity for channeling resources into development programs.
31.       An IDA credit of US$32 million for a sixth highway project and an IDA
credit of US$16 million for a fifth telecommunications project have been
approved by the Executive Directors in the current fiscal year. We plan to
present for your consideration in the next 18 months four or five agricultural
projects. Several of the projects will be follow-up projects and others will
be breaking new ground. Included in the first category will be the Third Live-
stock Project, and a follow-up credit for the Coffee Processing Project. In-
cluded in the second category are proposals for a grain storage and marketing
project, and an agricultural settlement project. Because of institutional and
policy changes in Ethiopia, some restructuring of these projects has been
necessary. Thus, completion of appraisals and negotiations of some of these
projects would be delayed somewhat. Before presenting each of the above project
we shall take a careful look at the prospects for implementation and the avail-
ability of local resources necessary for implementation.
32.       During 1970-73, the Bank and IDA contributed 40.5 percent of gross
inflows of official loans. This share is expected to increase substantially
during the next few years as amounts disbursed under Bank loans and IDA
credits rise. As of December 31, 1974, the Bank/IDA share of total public
debt disbursed and outstanding was 40.8 percent and the Bank/IDA share of
total public debt service was 27.8 percent. Because of the relatively low



- 10 -
levels of assistance expected from bilateral donors, Bank Group debt out-
standing as a percent of outstanding external public debt is expected to rise
to 55-60 percent by 1980, and debt service payments to the Bank Group will
increase to approximately 40 percent of total public debt service by the same
year. However, the IBRD share of external public debt-outstanding and dis-
bursed will fall from 25 to 15 percent over this period. The debt service
ratio in 1973 was less than 8 percent and is likely to remain below 10 percent
in the 1980's.
PART III - EDUCATION IN ETHIOPIA
33.       The education system consists of six years of primary education
(age 7-12), two years of junior secondary education (age 13-14), four years of
senior secondary education (age 15-18) and three to four years of higher
education (age 19-22). In 1973-74, about 27 percent of primary enrollment, 12
percent at the secondary level and 2 percent at the third level were in private
schools run by religious and other non-government agencies. The total
enrollment in 1973-74 was about 1.06 million.    Over the last 15 years,
the average annual enrollment growth has been about 11 percent in primary
schools, 19 percent in secondary schools and 20 percent in universities. Not-
withstanding this rapid growth, the participation rate in 1973-74 was very low,
being 20 percent of the 7-12 age group in primary schools, 6 percent of the
13-18 age group in secondary schools and only about 0.2 percent of the 19-22
age group in post-secondary institutions. The participation rate for females
was much lower than for males who accounted for some 70 percent of total
enrollment.
34.       There are serious inequalities in the distribution of education
opportunities between urban and rural areas. In Addis Ababa, about 70 percent
of the relevant age group attend primary school as compared with 7 percent in
the province of Harar. At the secondary level, disparities are even more
pronounced with three of the provinces, each with a population of two million,
having only one senior secondary school. Also, three provinces having only
about 27 percent of the secondary school age group account for 55 percent of
the total secondary school enrollment. Of the group who entered the universi-
ties, two thirds came from three provinces.
35.       The Ministry of Education(MOE) with its 14 provincial offices is
responsible for the management of public education for the schools, teacher
training and technical education. MOE is also responsible for supervision of
non-government schools, but its influence has been minimal due to the weakness
of the school inspectorate. The Ministry is at present designing a broader and
more comprehensive scheme to improve quality of instruction in private schools.
Improvement of the training of school supervisors is one of the objectives
of the Academy of Pedagogy assisted by the IDA Second Education Project, and
new in-service training courses for teachers in the non-government sector are
also under way. Unqualified teachers by Ethiopian standards represent 30 per-
cent of the total teachers in government primary and secondary schools.
Expatriate teachers represent about 40 percent of teachers for secondary schools
and about an equal percentage in post-secondary schools. The teacher/pupil
ratio is 1:50 in primary schools; 1:30 in senior secondary schools; 1:10 in



vocational and techricnèl  institutes;  and 1:8 in post-secondary non-university
institutes.  These ::ates are satisfactory although significant savings in
recurrent cost could be obtained by increasing the number of students per
teacher for vocational and post-secondary institutions.
36.       Despite its small size, the education system already absorbs some
20 percent of government revenues. It is not only for budgetary reasons,
however, that the pattern of expansion followed in the sixties and in the
early seventies should not continue. The main reason is that the existing
system does not adequately respond to the socio-economic needs of the
country. The curriculum at each level is oriented to preparing the student
towards the next level and students who drop out or do not reach higher
education are ill-suited to the labor market. The primary school curriculum
has virtually no agricultural content and in secondary education, although
IDA has assisted in broadening the programs, instruction is still basically
urban-oriented. The technical schools have not developed adequate communi-
cation with industry and their curricula are often inappropriate as indi-
cated by the unemployment of some of their graduates. More attention needs
to be given to non-formal education, agricultural training and to improving
learning systems in rural areas, including the use of new media.
37.       It is against this background that the Ethiopian Government embarked
upon a comprehensive review of the education system. The Bducation Sector
Review (ESR), completed in July 1972, was carried out with assistance provided
by IDA and various other agencies The final recommendation of the ESR pro-
posed some major changes in the educational system including modifying the
present 6 years primary, 2 years junior secondary and 4 years senior secondary
school cycles to a 4-4-4 year cycle; major curricula revisions; lower teacher
qualifications and increase and additions to the non-formal and rural training
programs. The basic aims of this strategy were to attain universal primary
education rapidly and inexpensively, to ruralize the curricula, to equalize
educational opportunities and to relate education to the development process.
38.       However, parents, students and teachers' unions opposed some aspects
of the ESR's recommendations. Early in 1974, an Inter-ministerial Committee
was established by the new Government to re-examine the ESR's proposals. The
education policy proposed by the Inter-ministerial Committee and accepted
by the Cabinet in September 1974 does not differ radically from the main
lines of ESR proposals except for the retention of the original six-year
primary cycle. The new Government has associated teachers and other concerned
groups in formulating the strategy, and there is now a general consensus behind
the new education policy. In brief, the policy consists of (a) expanding as
rapidly as possible primary education which would remain a six-year cycle
with instruction carried out in four-classroom low-cost school buildings,
also to be used as focal points for work-oriented adult education and village
development; (b) making each awraja (district) self-sufficient in skills by
providing one secondary school per awraja, the education programs of which
would be geared to specific awraja requirements; and (c) re-orienting and
cautiously expanding post-secondary and university education in line with



- 12 -
estimated labor market absorptive capacity. Intensive activity in curriculum
development and reform is envisaged for all levels and types of education in
order, primarily, to gear the content of instruction of youth and adults to
the needs of rural development. Changes are also proposed in the methods of
instruction (e.g.,use of vernacular), in the provision of teaching aids (e.g.,
radio instruction for youth and adults) and in the content of teacher train-
ing to assist the teachers to become community development leaders.
39.       The plans in support of this policy call for increasing enrollment
in primary education by some 17 percent p.a. over the next ten years as against
11 percent p.a. in the past, in secondary education by some 5-6 percent p.a. as
against 19 percent p.a. in the past, and for expanding participants in non-
formal education by some 30 percent p.a. The recurrent finance implications
of this expansion have been worked out in detail: assuming that no new taxes
will be introduced and that total government recurrent expenditure (in 1974
prices) will grow by no more than 7.5 percent p.a., total public expenditure
on education and training under all Ministries and Agencies (in 1974 prices)
will reach 25 percent of the government budget by 1984. This is a reasonable
figure that conforms with the ESR recommendations. In addition, studies are
under way to explore methods that would reduce recurrent costs. If these
studies lead to practical measures, recurrent finance will become a lesser
constraint than is anticipated at present. In sum, adequate recurrent
financial resources appear to be available to meet the quantitative targets
of the plan. The required capital funds, after taking account of the planned
foreign borrowings, will be within public finance capacity and represent 7
percent of estimated capitalbudget for the years 1975-1980.
40.       A significant development is government plans for complete revision
of primary and secondary school curricula in order to provide useful skills.
In addition to the use of Amharic and local languages in the first years of
education and to the expansion of educational broadcasting for youth and
adults, the first phase of the plan calls for the development of a major
program of adult education in the rural areas. Some experimental work has
been carried out successfully and the Government plans to expand this program
with the establishment of a network of Community Skill Training Centers which
would focus on rural skill training and provide a base for training in literacy,
agriculture, health, nutrition and community development.
41.       Finally, the coordination and implementation of these programs are
to be delegated to the local level, with general supervision and assistance as
required from the Central Government. The 14 provinces are divided into 102
awrajas, each of which would have an administrator and staff responsible for
education, health, agriculture, community development and other locally related
programs. This decentralization of responsibility is expected to make it
possible to vary the content of programs to fit the needs of each area and
to improve education and development administration considerably, particularly
in view of Ethiopia's widely varying terrain, climate and ethnic groups.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       A report entitled "Appraisal of a Fourth Education Project -
Ethiopia" (No. 726-Er) is being circulated separately. A credit and project
summary is provided in Annex III. The project was appraised in the field in
October-November 1974. Negotiations for the proposed IDA credit were held
in Washington in April 1975. The Ethiopian delegation was led by Ato Legesse
Tickeher, Economic and Financial Counsellor, Ethiopian Embassy, Washington D.C.
Background
43.       The proposed project.follows three other Ethiopian education projects
assisted by IDA. The first project, approved in FY66, has been completed. It
assisted the expansion of secondary, technical and teacher education and the
diversification of the curricula at various levels. The second project,
approved in FY71, assisted some additional secondary school expansion, teacher
training, agricultural institutes and training of agricultural extension
workers. The third education project, approved in FY73, assisted the Univer-
sity Science Center, farm training centers, expansion of the Animal Health
Institute, Science Curriculum Development Center and an Education Materials
Production Center, and provided for related technical assistance.
Project Purpose
44.       The proposed project would provide financial and technical assistance
to move the Ethiopian education and training system toward its objective of
becoming an active, contributing force in the development process. The Govern-
ment has made significant changes in development policy which, to a large
extent, depend upon an effective educational system for their implementation.
The most significant of these changes in development policy is the shift of
emphasis from the urban to the rural areas with the objective of improving
income distribution, standard of living, educational and other opportunities.
The items which make up the proposed project, taken together, provide facili-
ties, equipment and technical assistance required to help accomplish these
objectives. While the previous three education projects concentrated primarily
on the improvement of the formal educational system, the proposed project places
emphasis upon the non-formal education system and for the first time in Ethiopia,
makes a determined thrust into the rural areas to improve the knowledge, skills
and productivity of the rural population.
Project Description
45.       The project would provide:
(a) additional facilities for primary and secondary education
in rural areas together with assistance for major curricula
reforms and support for the expansion of the present mass
media education radio program;



- 14 -
(b) the establishment of 100 Community Skill Training
Centers and 24 Awraja Rural Development Centers;
(c) Training Centers for home economics demonstrators,
specialists in agricultural cooperative development
and forest rangers as well as three centers for the
training of health assistants;
(d) new facilities for the Social Science Center at the
National University.
Funds would also be provided to strengthen the project unit and help meet the
operating costs of the project unit during execution of the project. A de-
tailed description of the project items follows.
General Education and Training
46.       Primary Schools.   Provisions for about 550 four-classroom primary
schools have been made in the project. If further cost reductions can be
achieved below the estimated cost through the use of self-help and/or the
development of more inexpensive designs using local materials, additional
schools would be built. Site locations for the schools would be selected
according to the criteria agreed to by the Government during negotiations
(Section 3.06 of the draft Credit Agreement). The schools would provide
places for 110,000 students who could also utilize the facilities in the
proposed Community Skill Training Centers included in this project.    Enroll-
ment of girls would be encouraged and promoted. The primary schools enroll-
ment ratio would increase from 20 percent in 1973 to about 40 percent in
1980 as a result of the project and of a Swedish International Development
Agency (SIDA) program providing additional primary school classrooms. All
schools would be in remote rural areas and about 80 percent of the sites
would be accessible only by mule.
47.       Secondary Schools.   Provision is made for 15 junior secondary
schools (grades 7 -TM) and 8 senior secondary schools (grades 9 - 12),
all in rural areas, which would provide places for 3,600 junior secondary
students (240 per school) and 2,560 (320 per school) for senior secondary
students. It is planned that at least one-fourth of the schools would operate
on a double-shift basis which would increase the enrollment by about 1,500.
The remote locations of the new schools would not permit double-shift on a
wider basis due to sparse population density. Under the project, expansion
of senior secondary school enrollment would not exceed 1-2 percent p.a.
Site locations for the secondary schools would all be in awrajas (districts)
which do not presently have any secondary schools. The Government is
evaluating various methods of estimating educational efficiency including
the possible use of a student tracer system and the Association would
review progress of, and provide advice to, education evaluation methodology
in Ethiopia in the course of project supervision.



48.       Curriculum Development.   The project would include internal
travel expenditures, fees, periem and supplies required to complete
the writing and illustrating of the new textbooks and teaching materials
and training the teachers in their use. No funds would be provided for
the printing of textbooks which is financed by a revolving fund established
as part of the Education Materials Production Center assisted by the third
IDA education project. The writing of the various curricula would be
carried out by qualified teachers selected from the schools, colleges
and universities. Revisions to both primary and secondary schools curricula
would place emphasis on agriculture, handicrafts, commercial training, home
crafts and other practical subjects, and in secondary schools, at least 12
of the 30 weekly class periods would be devoted to practical studies relevant
to awraja requirements. The focus would be on education for employment and for
wider participation in Ethiopian development. Included in the course revision
plan would be the training of teachers in the use of the new materials.
49.       Radio (Educational Broadcasting).    The project would assist in the
expansion of educational broadcasting by providing services and supporting
facilities for expanding the present small two-station radio system which
now reaches only 213 of the 2,800 primary schools, to a nation-wide eleven-
station network. The radio education service has operated for over 15 years
and is fairly effective despite its limited geographical coverage. The ODM
would supply nine additional transmitters and related services and UNICEF
has already provided 3,000 radio receivers for schoolroom use and will dis-
tribute an additional 1,500 sets in FY76; 10,500 additional receivers are
expected to be provided during the project period. The project would
finance buildings for the transmission stations, software, specialized
equipment, mobile repair units and program production support. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed that an agreement in principle
has been reached with ODM for the supply of transmitters and related
equipment and services.
50.       Educational broadcasting to schools provides excellent coverage
of subjects such as English, Amharic, Science, Geography, Mathematics and
Social Studies. At present, 30 hours of school broadcasting per week is
provided, mainly to primary schools. The expansion of the network would
permit a greater diversity of programs reflecting regional differences and
support the adult education program.
Non-Formal Education and Training
51.       Awraja Rural Development Centers (ARDCs).   A Government order in
1973 established the procedure for the organization of awraja self-
administration.  The Government initiated the program in April 1974 in 24
awrajas as the first phase of a "self-administration" plan for the country's
102 awrajas. In line with the present Government's emphasis on decentrali-
zation and the need for implementing land reform, the Government is acceler-



- 16 -
ating the process. About 70 administrators with background and experience
of administration of rural development have already been appoInted.    The
administrators will coordinate and supervise the work of all awraja staff
and advise the Awraja Council in the planning and budgeting of awraja pro-
grams. The awraja administration will have responsibility for, inter alia,
primary and adult education, public health, agriculture, community develop-
ment, trade and commerce, public works and water supply at the local level.
The ARDCs will be the focal point for the self-administration program and
development coordination in each awraja. The project would finance buildings,
furniture, and equipment for the ARDC and also provide in-service training
of awraja staff.
52.       Community Skill Training Centers (CSTCs).    The project would
establish 100 CSTCs which would have the following objectives: (a) the
introduction of an improved technology to a variety of rural crafts and
skills; (b) upgrading the skills of rural craftsmen; (c) training
rural adolescents for self-employment in rural crafts; (d) providing
skill training as necessary in support of rural public works programs;
and (e) supporting the introduction of rural-oriented practical studies
into the primary schools. The CSTCs will form part of a Work-Oriented
Adult Education Program (WOAEP) which was formulated during 1974. Each
Center would be located next to a primary school in a wereda (sub-district)
market center. A wereda has an estimated average population of 50,000.
It has been estimated that 6 percent of the Ethiopian population is
engaged full or part-time in traditional crafts. The instructors would
be village craftsmen who would receive appropriate up-grading and training.
Each Center would have the capacity to train about 100 participants each
year in a variety of courses.
53.       The project would provide the facilities, furniture and equipment
for the Centers and technical assistance consisting of two man-years of
specialists' services, and one-half man-year of fellowship training for
staff development. Each Center would also be supplied with learning
materials; tools for skills training and sets of basic hand tools would
be provided to participants on completion of their training. In order
that the Technology Center of the MOE could act as a laboratory and central
training facility for intermediate technology, it would be supported with
basic tools and equipment and an expert to assist with the organization
of the Center and the establishment of its functions in support of the
CSTCs.
54.       Prior to negotiations, the Government established an Inter-
ministerial Committee for the overall planning and supervision of the
Work-Oriented Adult Education Program (WOAEP) and the CSTCs.
55.       During negotiations, the Government agreed to provide (a) plans
for training of instructors and skill training courses in the CSTCs, and



(b) information on evaluation methodology and reports for the WOAEP (Sections
3.08 and 3.09 of the draft Credit Agreement).
Agricultural and Health Training
56.       Forest Ranger Training Center (FRTC).   The project would provide
for the construction, furnishing and equipping of a training center for
forest rangers. At the present time, protection    and management of the
widely scattered forested sections of the country are carried out by some
600 employees of whom only 20 have had some forestry training. The pro-
posed 40 student-place FRTC would offer a two-year post-secondary course
(grades 13-14) to meet the need for adequately trained forestry technicians.
This facility would be located within the compound of an existing 16 student-
place Forestry In-Service Training Center (FITC) at Menagesha for low-level
field staff which is scheduled to be renovated with assistance from the ODM
by about the end of 1975. The teaching staff of both Centers (FRTC and FITC)
would consist of two expatriate instructors, to be provided by the ODM, and
two local counterpart instructors to be recruited from the existing qualified
foresters in the country.
57.       Home Economics Department (HED).   The proposed 40 student-place HED
to be added to the Ambo Institute of Agriculture, would offer a two-year post-
secondary course for women in home economics, agriculture and extension educa-
tion. The training would focus on helping village women develop skills in
family care, home management, home crafts and agricultural production, thus
enabling them to participate more effectively in rural development The
teaching staff of the proposed facility would consist of one expatriate
instructor who would be provided by SIDA and a local counterpart instructor
who currently is in Ghana, pursuing studies towards a Bachelor's degree
in Home Economics. For staff development, the proposed project would pro-
vide six man-years of fellowships for advanced training in rural home economics
preferably in a suitable African country.
58.       Cooperative Training Center (CTC).   The Government's rural develop-
ment progran emphasizes formation of village cooperatives.   During the next
ten years, ongoing regional agricultural projects would require a large number
of new village cooperative organizers each year. The Land Reform decreed in
March 1975 would also create a great additional demand for cooperative organizers.
The proposed 80 student-place CTC would offer a ten-month post-junior secondary
course for cooperative organizers, five months of which would be off-campus
on-the-job training. The arrangement would enable the Center to train two
groups of trainees in about one-and-a-half years. Four Ethiopian trainees
under ODM fellowships are now abroad for advanced training in cooperatives.
Upon completion of their studies, they would staff the Center. The proposed
project would also provide four man-years of fellowships for staff development.



- i8 -
59.       Health Assistant Training Centers (HATCs).   The Government has
decided to shift its emphasis from the building of costly major hospitals
to the provision of Rural Health Centers and Health Stations. At the
Health Station level, minimal medical services would be provided by a
staff of two health assistants (paramedics), one senior nurse aid one
laboratory technician. New Health Stations are being built at the rate
of 50 p.a.; 650 are already in operation with plans for a total of 1,500
such stations. However, up to the present time, for lack of adequate
facilities, the training of health assistants has not been started and
the Health Stations are staffed with dressers.   The project would assist
in the training of health assistants ana retraining of oressers by pro-
viding for the construction, furnishing and equipping of three HATCs,
each with 120 places located in Yabelo (Sidamo), Woldiya (Wello), and
Shambo (Wollege). It would also assist in constructing and equipping
15 Health Stations where the students would be given on-the-job training.
These Health Statior would each be provided with hostel accommodations
for five students and would be located so that each HATC would have easy
access to five Health Stations. Trainees would be selected from students
who have completed grade 10 or 11. The training courses would be 18 months,
three months of which would be spent in internship. It would include
courses in preventive medicine, the treatment of common ailments and
injuries and childbirth. The teaching staff would be selected from among
the health officers of the Ministry of Health (MOH) and would be assisted
on a part-time basis by community nurses and sanitarians.
Higher Education
60.       Social Science Center (SSC).   In line with the Government's policies,
curricular and organizational changes have been taking place at the National
University (NU) during the last three years. Among the major changes now being
implemented is the consolidation of all social science disciplines under one
administration to facilitate the integration of teaching and research in the
social sciences and training of development administrators. To bring bout
more effective consolidation, the proposed project would assist in constructing,
furnishing and equipping a Social Science Center (SSC) which would accommodate
all the social science disciplines including: (a) all social science depart-
ments now under the Faculty of Arts (e.g., Economics, Public Administration,
Geography, Sociology, etc.), (b) the School of Social Work, (c) the College
of Business Administration, (d) the Division in charge of extension classes,
and (e) the Institute of Development Research. About 700 students would use
the proposed SSC aside from some 5,000 students who would be expected to
attend extension classes during off-school hours each year. No substantial
increase in the overall enrollment of the National University would result
from the establishment of the SSC.
61.       Studies are under way by the Government to explore methods that
would reduce recurrent cost per student. During negotiations, the Govern-
ment agreed to review with the Association, its policies and plans for
introducing cost reduction measures in the education sector (Section 3.10
of the draft Credit Agreement).



Project Execution
62.       An existing Project Unit -within the Ministry of Education, res-
ponsible for implementation of the earlier IDA-assisted education projects
would be responsible for the financial ald administrative control of the
fourth education project.  T,:e Unit wou_ld also coordinate with the various
ministries and agencies concerned with the Project, including the Elementary
School Building Unit (ESBU). The Project Unit is headed by an experienced
engineer-manager and adequately staffed with supporting staff of adminis-
trators, engineers and architects.
63.       The ESBU established as a separate unit within the Ministry of
Education in June 1968 will construct the primary schools, radio trans-
mission stations, Community Skill Training Centers and the Awraja Rural
Development Centers. The execution of civil works in ongoing IDA-assisted
education projects by the Project Unit is proceeding smoothly. No official
of the Project Unit or ESBU has been transferred elsewhere in recent months
and the Government has indicated that it did not wish to impair the capacity
of the Unit in any manner. Provision for strengthening and expanding the
Project Unit has been included in the Project. Regarding ESBU, its recent
school construction achievement was slightly below target because of labor
unrest in September-November 1974 and diversion of ESBU capacity for other
urgent work (e.g., construction of grain storage units and health stations)
in drought-affected areas. During the eight months from July 1974 to
February 1975, it completed 21 primary schools against 27 planned. Ninety-six
schools were under construction against 103 planned, but preparation work was
undertaken on 26 schools against 7 planned. ESBU would receive continued
support from SIDA and further assistance under the Project, and would be
able to satisfactorily undertake the Project construction work to be en-
trusted to it. During negotiations, the Government agreed that a work
plan and budget for the curriculum development program, the radio program
development, and for the force account construction work included in the
Project will be submitted prior to the beginning of each of its fiscal year.
The work plan and the budget will indicate, inter alia, the proposed co-
Qrdination of work activities between the Project Unit and the ESBU (Section
3.07 of the draft Credit Agreement).
64.       During negotiations, the Government agreed to advance funds as
required on a quarterly basis to be administered by the Project Unit to
ensure the timely implementation of civil works by departmental forces,
curriculum and radio program development and for project administration
(Section 3.11 of the draft Credit Agreement). Design and supervision of
construction of secondary schools, the Forestry Ranger Training Center,
the Cooperative Training Center, the Home Economics Department and the
Health Assistant Training Centers would be carried out by the Project Unit.
Design and construction of primary schools, radio transmission stations,
CSTCs, and the ARDCs would be carried out by the ESBU. Standardized building
designs developed for previous projects would be modified where appropriate
for these facilities.



- 20 -
65.       Satisfactory sites have been selected for the HED, FRTC and the
SSC. Site locations have also been selected for the radio transmission
stations and the HATCs. All remaining locations and sites will be selected
based upon criteria agreed upon during negotiations (Section 3.06 of the
draft Credit Agreement).
Cost Estimates
66.       The total cost of the Project including financial assistance of
US$1.2 million equivalent (ODM and UNICEF) from other donor agencies, is
estimated at US$30.3 million, net of taxes and import duties. The foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$10.4 million.   The Project cost in-
cludes contingencies which account for 58 percent of the base cost. A
summary of cost estimates is contained in Annex III. The proposed credit
will finance the foreign exchange component, and US$12.6 million equivalent
of the local currency expenditures.
Procurement
67.       Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment and imported con-
struction materials would be awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's Guidelines for Procurement
except as stated hereunder:
(i)  The construction of primary schools, radio transmission
stations, the CSTCs, and the ARDCs would be by departmental
forces (force account) utilizing the services of the ESBU;
(ii)  Civil works costing less than US$200,000 equivalent each;
(iii) Furniture and equipment contracts costing less than
US$40,000 equivalent each; and
(iv) Locally procured construction materials.
Contracts for items (ii) to (iv) would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with local procedures which are
satisfactory to the Association. Contracts to be awarded through inter-
national competitive bidding in this Project are estimated at about US$11.0
million including contingencies, and contracts to be awarded through com-
petitive bidding, advertised locally, are estimated at about US$7.0 million
including contingencies. The remaining project expenditures would be for
work by departmental forces, professional services, technical assistance
and project administration.
68.       Standardized sketch designs, draft tender documents and master lists
of construction.materials, furniture and equipment would be reviewed by the
Association.   Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to permit bulk
procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents for civil works by the
Association prior to award would be required only for contracts above US$200,000
equivalent; for equipment, furniture and construction materials, review prior
to award would not be required for contracts less than US$40,000 equivalent.



- 21 -
69.       Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed
a preference of 15 percent or the existing rate of import duties, whichever
is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers. Qualified
domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of
7-1/2 percent over bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
Disbursements
70.       Disbursements would be on the basis of:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported
construction materials, furniture, equipment,
including vehicles and technical assistance;
(b) 85 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
of locally manufactured furniture and equipment;
(c) 80 percent of expenditures for civil works and pro-
fessional services, and of local expenditures for
locally procured construction materials, curriculum/
radio program development, and salaries and operational
expenses of project administration; and
(d) 60 percent of local expenditures for locally procured
imported furniture and equipment.
71.       The Project would be implemented in about six years after credit
effectiveness with a proposed Closing Date of December 31, 1981. Should
cost savings be realized, it is proposed to use such savings for additional
primary schools or other project-related items as approved by the Association.
Benefits
72.       The benefits expected from the proposed project can be sumnarized
in four principal categories: (a) reform of the curricula in primary and
secondary schools with emphasis on practical skills and the provision of
additional school facilities in the rural areas to improve educational
opportunity; (b) improvement in the productivity of the rural population
and increase in their participation in the development process; (c) the
provision of the additional high and middle-level manpower required for
development work in specialties such as administration, health, forestry,
home economics and cooperatives; and (d) facilitating the process of
decentralizing Government operations, including those of the Ministry
of Education.
Risks
73.       The principal risk to be considered is the long-term commitment
to educational reform. However, the five-year education plan (1974-79) of
the new Government is largely based on the findings of the 1972 Education
Sector Review, an exceptionally thorough study of Ethiopia's educational



- 22 -
needs, conducted during the previous regime which also recognized the need
for fundamental changes in the educational system. It is doubtful, therefore,
that possible changes in government would result in major changes in the
educational plans. There is some risk involved in placing additional
responsibility for an increased school construction program on the ESBU,
particularly with the inclusion of a self-help component, and in view
of the fact that the ESBU is taking on other construction responsibilities
for the Ministry of Health and others. However, assistance anticipated from
SIDA and additional assistance to be provided under the Project will alle-
viate this problem.
74.       In spite of these risks, the proposed Project's objectives and
potential benefits point to its suitability as a part of the overall
strategy to activate the development processes, change the educa-
tional objectives and increase mass participation in education, training
and development and bring about a more equitable distribution of economic
wealth among the population.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRIY3'1S AND AUTHORITY
?5jè.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between Ethiopia and the
Associat;ion, the report of the Corm;ittee provided for under Article V,
Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a resolution
approving the proposed development credit are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
76.       The draft Development Credit Agreement follows the normal pattern
of agreements for education projects, taking into account the particular
features of the Project as described in earlier paragraphs of this Report.
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
May 14, 1975



ANNEX I
OOVNTRIDATA -S)a OPaPage                                            1
ARD                                      POP~~~~~~~~~~INUU DAA rrIO1
ICeD,0011                                         259          m a  (mid-197 2)                                Por inlot apabia lead
Refrenosc Countries
GNP PER CAPITA US$ (ATIAS BASIS) /                                    .               8   Ia            80           120            17C I
DEMDY;AAPHIC
CrFude _birth rate (par thoosead)                                                   4 6 /a  .a,       16 /b.aa       1 9 ~          I/b...
Crade death rate (per thoasead)                                    ..25 Ia.;                          24 /b_a       18    e Ls
Waant mortality rate (per thousand live births)                     81 /c.d 
Lit.exspecta...y at birth (years)                                  .                39 /b             L0            18L 9 7k
Ora.. repo      ts    ae/                                           .2.9 /b                          3.0 Iba.a      3.1 /b        3.1 /b
Population growth rate ~21.6                                                       2.2 /ab           2.1 /ah       283.2 /h
PopIltion growth rate - orb.n                                         5/f              __f                           5              7/ni
15-61                                                             .               5l/,j352 LU                                    1   k
65 and over                                                                         4              0e.0j,n.
Age dependency ratio /4                                             .1.0                  70.
F..... ir d,penden-y rTin    A                                      ..             1.2/0.            1.2            1.5           1.L
Urban poPulatio- as percent Of total                                  6 If           9 If            .               13 ZA         10 /ik.
Panily pl-nning:    N. of -ocptore ooaslatine (thoon.)              ....
No. of uers (%o ea .rned wsmen)
ElIP LOYNENT
Totallao     fo-Ce (thousands)                                   9.700 Ia       11.300 I           1.100 /g      5.100 /        5,100 /k.
Perce.ntage employed in agriculture                               88 7.           85 F.             80 /          80 /           90 Lkpch
Percentage  -nepl.y.d                                                                               20.  .  2
INCOME DISTRNIBUTION
Percent OF nati .oaI inco.e received by highest 5%                   ....
Percent ofnational innee. r-ei-vd by highest 20%                    .               ..
Percen.t of national inomre received by lowest 20%                 ....
Peroent i~f national income received by lowest 40%                  .               ..
DIS~IBIU,TIO,N OFPLARD OWNIERSHIP
Nwe  y top  U% of ownere                                        ..
% owed by smalleset 10% of oer                                      ..
HEALTH AND Nt-TRITILN
Pnpulati.n per physician                                            .           71,550            21,110        l5,9LO          7,830 I
PopaIation per norsing Person                                      ..           21,010             3,690         1,950          1,1~70 /s
Popolation per hospita1 bed                                      3,000Iv.        3,030               570         1,010 /          770
Per napito cao   .espply as % of reqaireemts                         88             92                77             91           101
Per capita protein sopply, total (grams per dayT~/6                  66             69                57             613           71
Of which , animal and poise                                       21 /            25                27 /z          21 /Z         79
Death rate 1-   years /7                                            .               ..
EIDUCATION
Ad-josted /8 prinary school enrolleent ratio                          8             167               1.0           25            ~ 67
Adjosted E     seconar  school enrollmeent ratio                             1       4k                1 
Tears of schooling pro.vided, firet and weaoned level                12             12                12             12            i3
Vocationa1 enrol1eent as % of sec. school enrollaent                 20              5lb               5 lab          I1 /2
Adul t li teracy rats N                                             .                7 T     .ac..d    5    ~._ed   19 F. o        30 &_-.
HOUSING
Aveerage No. of persons per room (urban)                            2.7I   an      . e                             2.5 /z
P.rcent Of occpied anile     ith-ta piped water                      267j,)         ...                              36 /r,t,
Access to eleotrinity (ae % of total popultion)                      58      ~     .                                 26 l~
Percen.t of Oar..l pepulation connected to elactricity              .               ..
GONSDUWTION
MM  Ireeivers per 1000 population                                     L/~a            6    /          20 /a          80 /a.        li/ane
Passenger cars per 100    population                                  Ii/I                                     2                     9
Electri   par conemmption (kwh p.o.)                                  6             20                11 /8          25            78 
Nespint con-aption p.o. kg Per year                              .             0.07              0.07            0.1 /         0.5 I
Nolan:   Figoren refer either to the latest perioda or to                'C__t of environmsental tempe      Wratr, body .eIghta, and
the latent yearn.    latent periods refer in principle to                dietr-ibution by age aRd sox of national ppjalatione.
Lha yearn 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latent yea,rn in pr-in-            /6  Protein standards (a- quireeaents) for all couatrieae as eatab-
cipla to 1960 nod 1970.                                                  liahed by USDA Economla Reearoh lea-nice provide tor a mninem-
/I   Tin Par Capita GNP .etinate in at emaet prico. foralone of 60 ga-ama of total protein per day, and 20 ga-ama of
7cmr    thio, thc  19(0, calcula.ted by the name convernion          anial and pulae protein, of which 10 grams should he animal
tachniq-c as the 1972 World leac    Ailms.                           p:-otei..  These sanhdards are anmeaht lowe      than thoae of 75
/2  Average nuber Of daughters per -ne       of reproductive              ga-Can of total protein and 23 ga.-a  ar animal1 protein as an
age.                                                                  --nage for the world, proposed by FAO is the Third World Fond
~jPoPu1Laion focth intro    -r for the decodes endiep in               Survey.
1960 nod 1970.                                                   /7  Soee stidies have s,gg-uted     cal. crde death rates Of oii1dr-en
/A   Ratio of population ander 15 and 65 and Over to popula-             ages 1 thc-Ougt 4 :.ay be -sad usafiret appr-ca.ima.n       edna yf
lion of ages 15-61 for age dependency ratio and to laboa-            ealnatrit io.n
fo rce of agen 15-61 for econonic dependency ratio.              'P. Perentage enro11a    of --ao    -;nicng pop.latIo,, 'Scci      age
/5  FACre ference stand-ar       represent physiological a-c-a              def-ned fo, eon, Oonunry.
oul re.enr.s for anrmal aCtivucy e-d health, taking
/0  bO9;    lb  1965-710;   /c   1963;    /d  Estimate baaed on firsat round of the Rational Sample Survey;         /    Estimate;
7(f   irhb    populaticc  defined as Addis Ahaha, Asamra, towns and market centers;        L&   Sixty-eight insoo;     7h   1967-69;
/1    7,000 or cure inhabitant;L          1971;    Lk   1969;   LA    15-59 yearn;    L.  60yas      nnne;            Rati   Of popuILaion
Under 15 and 60 wnd co-r to those in age 15-59;        LU   Population under 15 and 60 and O0cr;        /V  Labor force in, age
brackeL 15-59;     /q  1968;    /a-  Urban only;    /5   Number ono the register, noct all werking ho tha country;      /t   1slide
or, -ctid.;    LU. Inciuding teac her training at the third leanl;        j~ 1961;      L-  Including maternity hospItal beds;
G- lvronect only;      ~y   1961-063;    /.  196L-66;    lea   U.N. eStiata;       6b   Public educatuon only, eooluden pai-ioi
-cct--1a scoos;         /a    Cver 15 year;       aed  Definition unknown;     l_ea  Addie Ahabe only;     let  Percentage of
oceiliiogo ciii iecta-Lroa   lighting;    /a    099;lab       1960-72;     /.i  1naide only;     /..I 1969-70.
K-eyn haos becisicen -      OSe an objecti-a country because it is a neighboring developing country sus-hat forer up
Lb  i- jocoe sc  lenlm  ithicpi. walh similar ecological conditions.
Rh April 22, 1775



~~HIOP TA  ~      ~           ~         ~          ANEXI
ETHIOPIDATAPage 2
(Amounts in millions of U.S. dollars)
197 Actual                        Projected             19 60-   1955 -   19 70-    19 75-
95      1970     1973        1974      176     19 80       6196     970      7197     190      19 60   A2.i     12-
NATI[ONAL ACCOUNTS                                                                  __         ____~    2                  2__
At 1967-1969 Pricea     Exchange Rates                  Average Annual Orowth Rates         As Percent of ODY
Gross Domestic Product            1337.1   1651.2    1875.3     1950.3   '2127.7   2586.3      5.1      4.3      4.3       4.9     1,0.0     9    6.06  .
Cains from Terms of Trade (a)       18.9     22.8      29.9       -19.3    -56.0    -9.          .                          .4 - 1.4                     8
Gross Domestic Income    1355.     167 Z-0  1905.2      193 1. 0  2071.7  2491.0       5.4      4.3      3.5       4.6     100.0    100.0   100.0
ImPort (i.ed. NFS)                197.0     205.4    234.9       244.3     266.5   324.0      13.5      0.7      4.4       4.9      10.0     12.3   13.0
F.xnorts   (import capacity   lk-  - 12 j-  - 292.7     -256.6    -2Z4 8.2  -2Z7 4.4  11.8     0.9       7.1       2.1     ....2.J  J*1*0    U..0.
Resource Gap                        28.5     29.4    -57.8       -12.3      18.3     49.5     29.0      0.6        .                 0.8      1.8     2.0
Consumption Expenditures         1222.9    1470.6    1583.0     1693.6    1809.3   2171.0      5.7      3.8      3.5       4.4      89.1     87.8   87.2
Inv,stment    II (incl. stocks)   161.5     232.7    264.3       225.0     280.7   369.5       5.8      7.6      1.6       8.0      11.7     13.9   14.8
Domestic Savings                  133.0     203.4    322.1       237.4     262.4   320.0       3.2      8.9      3.8       5.6      10.9     12.2   12.8
Nation,al Savings                 143.2     203.6     327.0      238.6     261.5   314.6       4.7      7.3      3.8       5.2      10.9     12.2   12.6
?IFRM-TANT)ISI TRADE                         Annual Data at Curent Prices                                                           As Percent of Total
1967      1968     1969        1970      1971    1972                                            1968     1970   1972
Lenor t,s                                                        ___ _      __
Capit.l goods                   48.6      72.9     51.7        56.9      64.0    72.7                                            42.1     33.2   38'.5
Potermedi,at,e goods (mmLfuels) 30.8      38.5     33.5        39.4     43.4     39.6                                            2.       30     2.
Fuiels endI related materials                                                                                                    2.        30    2.
of whioch: Petroleumi         12.6      10.8     11.3        13.5      17.7    15.7
Cons'umpt-.on goods             50.9      50.8   ~5           -ß-        627     6-                                              2        E      3
Total Merch. imports (cif)     -14 3.0  -173.0   .155.3       171.6     187.8    189.1                                          100.0    100.0  100.0
FExports
PrL-,ry croducts ~ncl. fuels)   99.     102.6     114.9       114.6    119.7    159.8                                            96.4    93.7    95.8
Pe~els eel related mater-ials
of which:   Petroleum           -        0.7      1.2         1.4       2.0     1.5
2u'a 1c nar 1-ed go ods         1.2       3.1      3.0         6.                                                                9 ___
Toa  ec.Es-ports (fob)  10 1.1   1T06.4     119.2      122.3     125.6    166.8                                          100.0    100.0  100.0
Tourism e.nd Bord-r Trace
Avarae  196769  10
Merehendise Trade IndJices        1965      1970     1973         1974     1976    1980
Export 1rice Index             109.0     126.5    136.4        151.6    148.3   166.1        3.1     3.0       3.0       2.5
Impor- Price Isdex              92.7    102.4     116.6        163.0   181.8    223.8       -0.3     2.0      11.0      5.4
Terms of Trade index           117.6    123.5     117.0         93.0     81.6    74.2        3.3     1.0      -7.1      -2.8
Exports Veluze Index            97.7     88.8     161.6        169.7   178.2    216.6        6.3    -1.9      14.9      5.0
'ALTIE A4001  Y D CO -             Ann,lDt       t1 66~~jp          ,                            Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of Total
1960/61   1963/64  19.~196      96/8     1969/70  1971/72              1960/61-1971/72            1960/61   1965/66   1971/72
Agriculture                   .1504.5   1608.9    1684.4     1754.2    1833.3    1376.8                     2.3                    64.5      57.0    51.5
~rd1stry end mining            29.       5.       .36.8       U.       541.1     b2l.0                     7.3                    12.3      14.8    16.5
r tee               59jQ      66~~~~~~_L4.9  8327-  _2__..  IQ7.J.   ~                           .                      32       28.2    32.0
Total                         2332.1    2652.3    2955.9     3200.0    3445.5    3761.9                      7                    100.0    100.0    1,0. 0
F PIA FITT -E                    1967/68  1968/69   1969/70    1970/71   1971/72   1972/73             1967/68-1972/73               An Percent of GDP
Gc, Overnment)                                                                                                               1967/68   1970/71   1972/73
rlret  ~'iptF             367.6    396.6     429.1      466.0     494.7     560.0                    6.8                     9.6      9.9      10.5
elr~n   =ndituresn        345.2    362.0     384.0      405.5     434.4     473.8                    6.5                     9.0       8.6      6.9
itite.     Savings               22.4     34.6      45.1       60.5      60.3      86.2                   3.                       .         .         .
Cth.r '4. 1Dc Sector               -        -          -         -         -                            -        --
Fhublic  e-tor I-nvestment      71.5      64.7      92.0      111.5     125.9     128.9                   12.5                     1.9      2.4       2.4
US $ pilIlion
CULPRENIP EXFFiDITURE DETAILS               Actual            Prelim.           Proj.        DETAIL ON                               At end 19~69 P and ER
As 9~ Total Current Exend.)           1970/71    1971/72    1972/73           1973 /74     PUBLIC SECTOR                      Third pl.n     9 of -Total
Education                              19.0       19.7        21.0             21.4        TIIVESTMZNT PROGRAM     ~           (1968 //69  - 1972 /73)
Other Sncß&.l Services                  7.2         7.0        7.5               8.3      SIncial Sectors                          46.6-       22.3
-Agriculture                            2.8         2.9         2.8              3.2       Agriculture                             25.3        12.1
Other Economic Services                 8.8         8.1        8.7              9.5        industry and Mining                     24.5       11.7
Adm:stisration e.nd Defense            53.6        53.0       50.7              46.6       Power                                     - 
(ther                                   8.6         9.2        9.3             11.2        Transport and communications            83.5       39.9
Tot,al Current Ex.penditu~res         100.0      100.0       100.0            100.0        Other                                  IL          14.0~..
__________________________________________________________________________ TotaTotalxEependturess.           2209.2     100.
SELEFCTE,D !!r1CATUCS                              1960-      1965-     3970-   1974-        FINAINCING
,'-a! c .et0d from 3-year averaged data)           1965       1970     1975     1978
-Ave'nroi  ICOP.                                    2.50       3.22     2        2.788           Public 5,-ctor Savings              73.8        42.2
Import. Elasticity                                 2.68       0.31      1.05    1.00            Program aid counterpart               -           -
31.rgieol Dmeestic Savings Rate                   0.07       0.20     0.13     0.08            Foreign Project Aid                101.2        57.8
Marginal Na:ional Savings Rate                     0.08       0.18      0.15    0.09            Total Financing                     175.0      100.0
!AR-P FORCE AND~                         -      Total Libor Force                                 Value Add,!d Per Worker (19   -     Price-s & Ene,. Rate.eT
uUTjP11Y PE.9 179KEI1             In Milflons            ofT,ntal          19   -               U.S.Dollars      PeTrcent of Av,ra6e        19    -
19          19      19     .   1        Growth Rate         1.9        19          19         19        Growth PaLte
Agricultu~re                     ..                  .          .                              .        ...
Industry                        .             .     .           ..                             .        . 
Service
no,t applicable          nil or negligiblJe
not available         -  less than half the
smallest unit shown



BAANE F Ay  ETHIOPIA
8ALAIGEOF  AYMN!?7fl)XTA331STAN0CE_AND DEBr
anoits i nia1Eo7 U.3. Jailers at c-rent pntces
Avg. AnmuSD
Actual  -Estimoated                                                   Projcte                                   Groewtb Rats
St!NY∂ARY BAlANCE 0? PAYMENTS       12.~~~~~~~.  1972     197 3        1.974              19,5  17         197        1978        1979       TW    1980190-1980
Exports ~ncl. BB)                 150.3      190.2       246.8      341.2       418.3         425.6      45L.2       482.2      515.9       575.8      614.2        13.0
;I,purts mici., NF3)                  210.4      232.1       23697      27 3 .8     3'48.2        438.3      484.5       334.8      591.2       654.7      3501.
Resource Ba anne  I-N)  ~ ~   ~      23ZS        791    ~~~7TT         flfl-rTr       =1T3       _IZI                   t573       -78r       -TMf          13.9
Tnterest (net)               ~~~~   ~   ~~~~-1.3  -4.5  -6.1   -3.1          3.0          2.6        1.3        -0.1       -2.0        -3.9        46.6       16.0
Direct investment Incoome              -6.2        7..32     -13.1      -16.8       -21.0         -31         -32         2          2            68        -811.
Workers' Remittance                      -           -                     -00 0- 2-0                                                                        200-.
Current Transfers rmt)        ~~~~8 0     9 0       17I7       25.5        20.0          20.0       20.0        20         20202..
Balance enOta       cont               2.         4            8.6       7S1T 3r                              r2.0h                  ST                    Y211.
-              29.8- -; -4- 6            -
Private Direct Investment               3.9        5.7         9.7       30.9         10,5         11.0       11.6        12.2       12.8        13.4        14.1       13.7
official Capital. rants                  -           -          ---                                             ------
Public MI,TT Loans
Disbursenrets                        27.4        44.3       33.0       36.9         73.3....-
-Pe---ensts                          -14.8       -13.1      -13.1      -13.1        -12,3....
Niet Disburse:7,nts                    12.6        31.2                             -- 28 Tr.7                                                    -r        r
Oth'er MUT1 Loans
risbuirsements                        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0          0.0
-Re aymnts                             00         0.0        0.0         0.00
lie' D;  . ts  0.0  -776                Ulu                                                            ~~~~~~    ~     ~    ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~AC tin l  Estimated
Capit-al Transactions n.e.i.            14.1        6.9      -11.6       -61-197 g1                                                            _T7o_ 1971
Charge ina Net Reserves                 0.8         6.        26.6       471.5        93.6       DEBT AND DEBOT SEVIOE30g
Public Deb-t Ou.&Disbursed    169.0    204.9     226.9    256.5       338
Official Starts & Grant-like            11.4       11.3       14.9       14.2                      Interest en Public Debt      6.2      1 .0      8.1      8.9          8.7
Repayment,s on Public Debt.  14.8     13.2      13.1     13.0        12.4
Public >14312 Loans                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~Total Pablic Debt Servrice  21,0  20.2  21.4  21.9  21- 
Fliblic VALT IDan                          -        10.8         -                      Othier Debt Service (net)      -- -               -          -
7DA                                    3.1       13.9       34.3        53.0                     Total Debt Service (net)    21.0      20.2     21.4     21921
Other 
Other Mkultilateral                     -          -          -           -                     irden on Export Ba-oings C
Governments                            8.6       26.9       12.3        26.7
.Suppliers,                             1.3        0.7         -          0.1                    Plublic Debt Service         11.6      10.6      8.7      6.4          5.0
Financila] In'stitutions               3.0        5.0-                   6.0                    Total Debt Service           11.6      10.6      9.2      6.4          5.0
Bond-i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~   ~   ~  ~~~                                        TDS'Dtrect Invest. Inc.      15.1     14.4      14.0     11.3        10.1
Public Loans n.e.t.--
Total ?ub.lic Y&t?LoaT                  76fo     -z;s         2                                 Average Terns of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstandiing on Dec. 31,1973-                Tnt. as It Prinrr Year D0)42  4.0      4.1       4.0      3.9         3.4
Z1MlIOAL. D532                               DIsbrsd    yPrcn                                       Amort, as % Prior Year Dm4D   9.5       7. 8      6.5      5.7         4.8
World Baskc                                     67T.4                  I7T 
ID7A                                            45.5                  Ii.                        211 Debt Oat. & D2isbursod    47.4      57.1      64.2     61.4        69.0
Other 3bltilaterol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                          as % Public Debt 04D     28.0       27.9      28.3    263          22.7
Goverr.nents                                   112.6                  43.9                           as % Public Debt Service  27.1       28.7     2.        423.
Suzcoliers                                       1.                    0.5
7-iarnclal Institutions                         29.8                   11.6                      I7DA Debt Out. & Disbursed    22.7       26.4     33.2.    45.5         60.7
Bonds                                                                                               as % Pablic Debt 040       13.4       12.9     14.6     17.7         20,0
PublIc Debts n.e.i                                                                                5 as % Public Debt Service,   0.7       0.9       1.3       ,23
Total Public WALT Debt                         Z315è1002
Othier MALT Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. only)-.                                           -
not applI-cable                                             e otaiff estimateH
not available- nil or negligible
not available separately                                   -   less than belt the
but Included In total                                          snalleot jyflt sheen    -



ANNEX I
Page 4
EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND NET PRIVATE CAPITAL INFLOW TO ETHIOPIA
Gross Public Loan Disbursements by Source, 1962-1973
(US $ millions)
Total                                                      Percentages
1962
to                                                     1962- 1966- 1970-
1965   1966  1967  1968  1969  1970  1971  1972  1973   1965   1969   1973
IBRD              14.3    7.8   6.4   4.8   6.8   5.6  12.5   9.4   6.o   17.7   24.6   25.6
IDA                5.8    2.7   2.6   4.1   4.4   2.8   3.7   4.5   8.6    7.2   13.2   15.0
USA               43.4    5.2   4.6   9.3   7.8   5.7  15.7   9.5  10.6   53.7   25.7   31.7
USSR               5.9    3.7   3.8   1.8   0.7    -    0.3    -     -     7.3    9.5    0.2
Germany            3.4     -    2.0   0.2   0.6   1.4   3.8   3.8   3.8    4.2    2.7    9.8
Sweden             0.8     -     -     -    1.6   1.0   1.9   2.0   1.4    1.0    1.5    4.8
Italy              0.7     -    1.1   4.3   5.0   2.0   4.3   0.7    -     0.9    9.9    5.3
Yugoslavia         4.0    0.4   0.6   0.1   0.2   0.1    -     -     -     5.0    1.2     -
United Kingdom      -      -     -     -     -     -     -    o.6   2.0     -      -     2.0
Netherlands         -    10.9    -     -     -     -     -     -     -      -    10.4     -
Other              2.4    0.4    -    0.3   0.7   2.4   1.9   2.0   1.1    3.0    1.3    5.7
TOTAL          80.8   31.1  21.1  24.9  27.7  20.9  44.0  32.5  33.5 100.0   100.0  100.0
Gross Public Loan Capital Inflow by Sector, 1962-1973
(US $ millions)
Communications
and Power      59.5   22.4 12.9    8.0 12.2    8.4  26.2  21.0  16.9   73.6   53.0   55 4
Industry          13.8    3.6   4.5   4.9   1.5   2.4   2.1   2.0   1.6   17.1   13.8    6.2
-Agriculture        0.3    0.1   0.2    -     -    0.3   8.7   4.7   6.7    0.4    0.3   15.6
Health             0.8    0.5   1.5   5.9   8.6   3.8   2.9   1.6   1.5    1.0   15.7    7.5
Education          0.4     -    0.4   2.4   2.2   1.2   0.8   1.6   4.0    0.5    4.8    5.8
DFC                3.0    0.1    -    0.7   1.8   4.2   3.2   0.5   .2.1   3.7    2.5    7.6
Other              3.0    4.4   1.6   3.1   1.4   o.6   0.2   1.0   0.7    3.7   10.0    1.9
TOTAL          80.8   31.1  21.1  24.9  27.7  20.9  44.0  32.5  33.5  100.0  100.0  100.0
Net Private Capital Inflow 1965-1973
(US $ millions)
Total    Total
1965    1966  1967  1968  1969  1970  1971  1972  1973  1965-69  1970-73
lo.4     6.4   2.8   6.4 -2.0   11.2  14.6  13.2  19.6   24.0     58.6



ANTE II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
A.                STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1975)
Amount
Loan or                                                        (US$ Million)
Credit                                               (less cancellation)  Undis-
Number     Year      Borrower         Purpose               Bank    IDA   bursed
Eight loans fully disbursed            . .                  56.7
Two credits fully disbursed                                        20.7
523-Er      1968     Ethiopia     Highways IV               13.5           0.6
111-Er      1968     Ethiopia     Highways IV                       7.7    0.3
596-ET      1969     EELPA/1      Power II (Finchaa)        23.1
605-hT      1969     BTE/6--      Telecommunications IV      4.5           0.9
169-hT      1969     Ethiopia     Wolamo Agriculture                3.5     -
188-ET     1970-     Ethiopia     Humera Agriculture                3.1    0.2
243-Er     1971      Ethiopia     Education II                      9.5    4.8
269-ES     t971      Ethio ia     Dairy                             4,4    3.0
818-ET     1972      AWSA         Addis Ababa Water         10.8           8.5
Supply & Sew3rage
290-ET     1972      Ethiopia     Coffee Processing                 6.3    5.3
301.w" C)72                       Agricultur l & Indus-
trial Developmemt Bank           11.0    5.2
332-Er      1972     Ethiopia     Highways V                       17.0    14.5
365-Er      1973     Ethiopia     Livestock II                      5.0     4.7
416-ET      1973     Ethiopia     Agric. Minimum Package           21.0    19.7
417-Er     1973      Ethiopia     Educa,tion III                   10.0    10.0
418-ET      1973     Ethiopia     Amibara Irrigation               17.0    15.9
453-Er      1974     Ethiopia     Telecommunications V             21.4    21.0
485-ET      1974     Ethiopia     Drought Areas
Rehabilitation                   10.0    9.5
486-Er*     1974     Ethiopia     Wolamo Agriculture II            12.0    12.0
516-Er      1974     Ethiopia     Lower Adiabo                      9.5     9.5
Total                                           108.6  189.1
of which has been repaid                       31.7    0.2
Total now outstanding                            76.9 18g7.
Amount sold                             6.0
of which has been repaid             6.o
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    -   -
(prior to exchange adjustments)                76.9  188.9
Total undisbursed                                10.1  135.7  145.8
* not yet effective
/1 Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority
77  Board of Telecommunications of Ethiopia
77 Addis Ababa Water Supply and Sewerage Authority



ANNEX II
Page 2
ETHIOPIA
B.                     STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1975)
US$ Million
Type of             Amount
Year             Obligor                     Business     Loan    Equity  Total
1965     Cotton Company of Ethiopia I        Textiles     1.5      1.0     2.5
1966     Ethiopia Piilp and Paper Co.        Paper                1.9      1.9
1968     HVA Metahara                        Sugar        5.5     3.5      9.0
1970     Cotton Company of Ethiopia II       Textiles     0.4     0.2      o.6
1973     Cotton Company of Ethiopia III      Textiles     1.5     0.2      1.7
Total Gross Commitments                          8.9     6.8     15.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                      4..1    3.1      7.2
Total Commitments now held by LFC                4.8      3.7     8.5
Total- Undishhursed                             -_--



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION - ETHIOPIA 1/
Ln No. 523     Fourth Highway Project; US$13.5 million Loan and US$7.7
million Credit of January 15, 1968; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1973, postponed to June 30, 1974, and sub-
sequently to June 30, 1975.
The project was late in starting because initial bids were high
requiring changes in specifications and new bid invitations. Subsequent
progress has, however, been good. Of the three civil works contracts, all
have been completed -- one a year ahead of schedule and another about fifteen
months ahead of schedule: the third contract was substantially completed at
the end of 1973, about three months behind schedule, but some repair work and
clean up operations extended into the second quarter of 1974. The closing
date was postponed to June 30, 1975 to allow for settlement of contractor's
claims.
Ln No. 596     Power II, Finchaa Hydroelectric Project; US$23.1 million
Loan of May 9, 1969; Closing Date: December 31, 1973,
postponed to June 30, 1974 and was subsequently postponed
to December 31, 1974, and then to June 30, 1975.
The Project has been completed; apart from some minor outstanding
works, all three generating units are now available for commercial opera-
tions. An analysis of overall Project costs, taking into consideration the
various currency realignments during the course of construction, shows that
costs were by about 7% over the original estimate, which is moderate in the
inflationary conditions which have prevailed during the construction period.
The increased costs are confined entirely to local costs. The original Loan
Closing Date of December 31, 1973 was postponed to June 30, 1974 so that
payment of retention monies could be withheld pending completion of all
outstanding items. The closing date was postponed to June 30, 1975 to allow
payment for some minor corrective civil works and replacement of the electric
standby generator.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANN7EX II
Page 4
Ln No. 605     Telecommunications IV Project; US$4.5 million Loan of
June 3, 1969; Closing Date: December 31, 1973, postponed
to December 31, 1974, and subsequently to December 31, 1975.
SIDA is providing joint financing of $4.5 million equivalent to
finance part of the foreign exchange cost. Overall progress has been
reasonably on target. However, installation of three microwave routes
will not be accomplished until mid-1975. The delays were mainly due to
difficulty in obtaining suitable consultants to work on the survey of these
routes and labor strikes in supplier's country.
Cr No. 1969    Wolamo Agriculture Development Project; US$3.5 million
Credit of November 16, 1969; Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
Overall progress is good and in advance of the appraisal schedule.
Participation of farmers in the program to increase productivity through
the provision of extension services, inputs and credit is in advance of
expectations as is participation in the soil conservation program. Construc-
tion of feeder roads is behind schedule and will reach only 50 percent of
target because of a financial shortfall. Land settlement will achieve only
about 90 percent of the project target because of unavailability of suitable
land. With respect to the livestock component, the vaccination campaign
is proceeding well.
Cr No. 188     Humera Agriculture Project; US$3.1 million Credit of
May 28, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1973, postponed to
December 31, 1974, and then to December 31, 1975.
The project is progressing well, but is behind appraisal completion
schedule by about one year, due mainly to delays in procurement of heavy road
construction equipment and delays in installation of the Humera water system,
which had to be undertaken by force account construction due to non-avail-
ability of contractors. Construction of facilities on the project farm is
satisfactory. Consultant's study on the second phase project was submitted
to the Government in February 1974. Only about $200,000 remain undisbursed.
The project is located near the Eritrean border and the current unrest and
fighting in Eritrea has adversely affected the movement of surplus agricul-
tural produce to Eritrean ports.
Cr No. 243     Education II Project; US$9.5 million Credit of May 6, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
Physical implementation of the project is about one year behind
the appraisal report estimate due mainly to problems in the initial stages
with procurement of bulk order construction materials and delays in site
acquisition and surveys. The delay was reflected in slow credit disbursement
initially. Disbursement is now increasing and further delays are not anti-
cipated.



ANNEX !I
Page 5
The Academy of Pedagogy and its primary teacher training institutes
has been completed. Thirty-seven other project institutions are also near-
completion; the remaining (about 10) are scheduled for completion by end-1975.
Construction and phased deliveries of furniture and equipment are progressing
well, and completion is scheduled for end-1975. The Nazareth junior teacher
training college will now be accommodated in existing facilities and the money
allocated for this item will be used for three rural elementary teacher
training institutes which will be completed before the closing date of the
credit.
Implementation of the technical assistance component of the project
is progressing and external fellowship students have taken up studies. At
the request of the Government, the manpower study by an ILO team has been
extended by 3 man-years to a total of 7-1/2 man-years.
Latest cost estimates show that Government will be called upon to
increase its project budget by about US$1.2 million to complete the project.
This increase is due to cost increases and currency realignments. However,
some or most of this increase may be offset by anticipated bilateral project
support.
Cr No. 269     Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project; US$4.4 million
Credit of August 30, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The credit was slow in becoming effective because of recruitment
problems. This project has serious liquidity problems caused by (a) a
narrowing margin between purchase price and sales price of dairy products;
(b) accumulated expenditures over revenues on DDA operated ranches and
farms; (c) over-extension of administrative and technical services all of
which caused the project to incur an operating loss through 1974 of Eth$2.2
million. A large part of this loss can be attributed to the fact that the
Dairy Processing Plant was expected to support the cost of technical assist-
ance and extension services to dairy farmers, a cost which should appro-
priately be borne by the Government budget. Cost increases are also a
problem and will cause some cut back of the project. In spite of this
adverse situation, we believe the project remains basically sound. We have
suggested to the Government a program to restructure the project and put
the dairy plant on a more profitable basis. The Government accepted our
proposal in March 1975 and implementation of IDA recommendations has started.
Cr No. 290     Coffee Processing Project; US$6.3 million Credit of
March 20, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Due to delays in obtaining parliamentary approval and recruiting
key staff, the credit was not declared effective until December 15, 1972.
Further, project implementation has been slow. However, project management
and planning have been good; procurement of road construction and coffee
processing equipment is now well underway, and project implementation is
gaining momentum.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Ln No. 818     Addis Ababa Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$10.8 million
Loan of May 1, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Project implementation is running eight to twelve months behind
the appraisal schedule. When the loan was signed total project costs were
estimated at about US$13 million. Based on recent tenders for a number of
contracts, cost estimates have increased to about US$21 million. We are
awaiting AWASA and Government's proposals to meet the cost over-runs. The
alternative of reducing the scope of the project is being considered. This
solution would, however, have its drawbacks since delay of installation of
part of the works would result in more difficult and costly installation
later on. Recently, the African Development Bank indicated willingness to
consider assisting the Government in financing cost overruns.
Cr No. 304     Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank Project;
US$11.0 million Credit of May 10, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
The credit became effective on October 25, 1972. The funds original-
ly allocated to the industrial portion of the credit have been fully committed
and $1.4 million have been reallocated to the industrial portion from the
agricultural portion which has proceeded more slowly. The report on the agri-
cultural credit study has been completed and is under review.
Cr No. 332     Fifth Highway Project:   US$17.0 million Credit of
September 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The credit did not become effective until July 24, 1973 due to
delays in Parliamentary ratification and in the submission to the Association
of the required legal opinions. Delays occurred in receipt of bids because
of extension of the bidding period to allow for sharp price increases conse-
quent to the oil crisis and for Ethiopian taxes and duties imposed at that
time on construction equipment and materials. Four of the six road contracts
are underway and the remaining two have been retendered. For one road, an
Ethiopian contractor submitted the lowest bid, contingent on receiving an
equipment loan. No bid was received for the other road which is now proposed
for construction by force account. Two roads are proposed for inclusion in
the Sixth Highway Project due to cost overruns on all six roads under this
project. Cost increases of about 80% over appraisal estimates are due to
increased cost of fuel, equipment, materials, and freight.
Cr No. 365     Second Livestock Project; US$5.0 million Credit of
April 2, 1973; Closing Date: July 15, 1977.
The credit became effective on August 24, 1973. However, the
construction program has not started and is now one year behind schedule.
A borehole drilling contract has been signed and bids are being evaluated
for the construction of markets, stockroute facilities, slaughter houses and
hide sheds. A review of project costs indicates a 39% cost escalation since
appraisal which will result in the credit being fully disbursed by December
1976 with about half of the development program still to be completed.



ANNEX I
Page 7
In addition, escalating operatirg cost estimates coupled with
decreased revenue forecasts indicate possible future cashflow problems and
Project management have been requested to prepare financial and economic
data for review by RMEA supervision staff. Depending upon the outcome of
this review, consideration will be given to advancing the preparation of
the Phase II Project to 1977 in order to assist in financing the cost overrun
for completing project works. Accounting consultants have started designing
and implementing a new accounting system for the Livestock and Meat Board
(the implementing agency).
Cr No. 416     Agricultural Minimum Package Project; US$21.0 million Credit
of July 5, 1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The credit became effective on April 15, 1974. Project implementa-
tion has gone well, and has exceeded targets for establishment of minimum
package areas. Participation of tenant farmers has however been lower than
anticipated and is being studied. The increased price of fertilizer poses a
serious threat to the program. For this year, the Government has obtained
bilateral financing which will assist in the procurement of fertilizer and
make possible a subsidy in the fertilizer price to the small farmers.
Cr No. 417     Third Education Project; US$10.0 million Credit of
July 5, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
This credit was declared effective on August 30, 1974, fourteen
months after signing of the Credit Agreement. This long delay was mainly
due to delays in Parliamentary ratification of the credit in the context of
political and students'/teachers' agitation over the Education Sector
Review's proposals for educational reform.
The contract between the University and consulting architects and
engineers selected for professional services for the University project com-
ponents has been signed. Work at technical levels relating to surveys,
design briefs, bidding documents, furniture and equipment lists for the
project is proceeding well. The project unit has been expanded by appoint-
ment of additional staff, some of whom will be financed under the credit.
Construction work in three out of the six project items is expected to
start in about four months.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr No. 418     Amibara Irrigation Project:   US$17.0 million Credit of
July 5, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
The credit became effective on August 30, 1974, fourteen months
after signing of the Credit Agreement. The delay in Parliamentary ratifica-
tion of the credit was the main delay, and was caused by disputes relating
to claims on Government land and disagreement in Parliament over the land
allocation pattern proposed in the project and over measures for dealing
with Afar nomads in the project area. Meanwhile project consultants have
estimated a three-to-four times increase in project costs, and questions
have been raised whether the project is still financially feasible and
economically viable. Consultants have prepared alternative proposals, and
an IDA reappraisal mission visited Ethiopia in February 1975 to examine
whether a viable project can be designed and agreed with the Government.
The mission's report is under preparation.
Cr No. 453     Telecommunications V Project (First Tranche); US$21.4 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This credit became effective on August 23, 1974. The project is
approximately six months behind schedule due to initial delays resulting
from labor disturbances in Ethiopia, but progress is now satisfactory.
Cr No. 485     Drought Areas Rehabilitation Project; US$10 million Credit of
June 26, 1974: Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The project was declared effective on November 7, 1974. Sub-project
preparation is proceeding well.
Cr No. 486     Second Wolamo Agricultural Development Project; US$12 million
Credit of June 26, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The credit is not yet effective; the terminal date for effectiveness
has been postponed from September 24, 1974 to May 15, 1975, due to delays
in ratification of the Credit Agreement and issuance of leases to farmers
settled under the First Wolamo Project and conclusion of a subsidiary agreement.
The credit has now been ratified, and a majority of the leases have been
issued to the farmers. The subsidiary agreement is expected to be concluded
soon. The Bank is awaiting dispatch by the Government of necessary legal
opinion and documents in fulfillment of the conditions of effectiveness.
Cr No. 516     Lower Adiabo Development Project; US$9.5 million Credit of
October 18, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
This credit became effective on February 5, 1975. Work on the
project and transportation into the project area have reportedly been disrupted
by the unrest in nearby Eritrea.



AnNEX . III
Page 1
ETHIOPIA - Fourth Education Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                     Ethiopia
Implementing Agency           Project Unit, IDA Education Projects, Ministry
of Education, P.O. Box 40036, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Amount:                       US$23.0 equivalent
Terms:                        Standard
Project Description:          The Project would assist in the implementation of
a broad program of basic and specialized education
with major emphasis on expanding and improving
opportunities in the remote rural areas with a
view to increased participation of the rural
population in the development process and improving
productivity. The project would provide:
(a) additional facilities for primary and
secondary education in rural areas
together with assistance to major
curricula reforms and support for the
expansion of the present mass media
education radio program;
(b) the establishment of 100 Community Skill
Training Centers and 24 Awraja Rural
Development Centers;
(c) the establishment of three Agricultural Train-
ing Centers for home economics demonstrators,
specialists in agricultural cooperative devel-
opment and forest rangers as well as three Centers
for the training of health assistants;
(d) the provision of new facilities for the Social
Science Center at the National University; and
(e)  operational expenses for project administration.
Estimated Costs:              Total project cost, including financial assistance
of US$1.2 million equivalent from other donor
agencies (British ODM and UNICEF), is estimated at
US$34.7 million equivalent with a foreign exchange
component of US$10.4 million or 30%. Taxes and
duties on project items are estimated at US$4.4
million. Project costs are summarized below:



ANNEX III
Page 2
US$ (Millions)
Local     Foreign     Total
I. Civil Works, Furniture, Equipment
& Professional Services
1.  Primary Schools                                4.90      1.88       6.78
2.  Secondary Schools                              1.60      1.07       2.67
3. Radio (Educational Broadcasting)                0.19      0.43       0.62
4. Community Skill Training Centers                0.60      0.39       0.99
5. Awraja Rural Development Centers                0.53      0.33       0.86
6.  Forest Ranger Training Center                  0.07      0.09       0.16
7. Cooperative Training Center                     0.09      0.07       0.16
8. Home Economics Department                       0.07      0.06       0.13
9.  Health Assistant Training Centers              0.77      0.37       1.14
10.  Social Science Center                          1.35      0.62       1.97
Sub-total I                                   10.17      5.31      15.48
II.  Curriculum/Radio Program Development               1.39      0.07       1.46
III.  Technical Assistance                               0.04      0.15       0.19
IV.  Project Administration                             0.83       0.45       1.28
Base Cost (Sub-total I-IV)                        12.43       5.98      18.41
V. Contingencies
1.  Physical increase (8%)                         1.07       0.46       1.53
2. Price increase (50%)                            6.43       2.70       9.13
Sub-total V                                    7.50      3.16      10.66
Total (I-V)                                   19.93       9.14      29.07
VI.  UNICEF (Equipment)                                  -         0.78       0.78
VII.  ODM (Equipment)                                     -         0.43       0.43
Total (I-VII)                                     19.93      10.35      30.28
VIII.  Taxes                                              4.40        -         4.40
PROJECT TOTAL (I-VIII)                            24.33      10.35      34.68



AlE.BX III
Page 3
Estimated Disbursements:
Fiscal Years          TJS$ millions
(Annual)     (Cumulative)
1976            0.2             0.2
1977            2.7              2.9
1978            8.0             10.9
1979            4.9             15.8
1980            5.0             20.8
1981            1.8             22.6
1982            0.4            23.0
Procurement Arrangements:   Contracts for civil works exceeding US$200,000
equivalent and furniture and equipment would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding. Due to the remote locations (about 80% of
the primary schools would be accessible only by
mule) and small sizes, the primary schools, mass
media radio stations, Community Skill Training
Centers and *the Awraja Raral Development Centers
would be constructed by departmental forces utilizing
the services of the Elementary School Building Unit,
a unit within the Ministry of Education. Civil works
contracts costing less than US$200,000 equivalent and
furniture and equipment contracts costing less than
US$40,000 equivalent each, and locally procured con-
struction material would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures
which are satisfactory to the Association. Domestic
manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be
allowed a preference of 15% or the existing rate of
import duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f.
price of competing foreign suppliers and qualified
domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a
preferential margin of 7.5% over bid prices of
competing foreign contractors.
Technical Assistance:      The project would provide two man-years of specialist
services and ten and one-half man-years of fellowships
for the Community Skill Training Centers, the Cooper-
ative Training Center, and the Home Economics Depart-
ment at the Ambo Agricultural Institute.
Consultants:               Architects/Engineers would be commissioned for the
design and supervision of construction of the Social
Science Center of the National University in Addis
Ababa on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
Appraisal Report:          Report No. 726-ET, dated May 2, 1975, Eastern Africa
Projects Department, Education Division.






J--I- .'6/  ffi   41'     \          ,/  414-
g  n    I I          _re~~~r- \\\ 
AFRICA                  J .              R ed                       FOL
ETHioPIA           , 0 I
.  t  0.  0  / E R / T R E A \ 9 t  @.  1     notshon
S U D A N                      Deberog            S e a 
Adi Ugri      ) _
"N ~ _         Qt    fomeo ,%  Sedlo o   Ao  Ad i \
*~~~~-~~~                       Woidlyd~~~~~~~~aW
\ ¢   \  f  /        /      ~~~~~  ~    ~    ~  ~~  ~ ~~~~~~Mekole  \ \ 
<\3      0<\ /  B~~ E G M  ER  _                    '    b     f
tS   < \|     DcbS       \   ~~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~Moichew   \ 
\\XX  /~~~~~~~~~~~.  is\ ZodiZmcn  W  0 L Lt O     F. T.A1. 
-12
-2-  %  / _   >   X    Dcbrc-Tcp_  ß~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~Woldiyc  foDjiot
|1                       BHB )  g_>3dht  gKutobefh, Hoik
/ X  ZOJ J A MlnibOr                 uc
At    t(               BureL           W,
// --(\-ka <;2--/ Medal)i                                   dt/\
fges~idoIIo \   Ar¢%  S5e Deebre Tsighore S      Dire Dow  e o
/W    'L \L E  G  A  shcmbo O   Kelema KuDlh/ 
(r-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r"
!        )          /  t90~~hirbl  C∞eri  Bako  Ch nch  dSaaj I n H
_ore~@  A /& m hidorloH A R orA
. ILLUBABO,        SearO4faI r    hg 'Rot    ,
/.   \        Boo 3ngo  /  -  .=_ .._
<./ m i d Mizon Teteri rdo   awy Goba           
KA FFA r,        'LoAboyo  t      
Th1e blosndorien shown on 1kw mrnsp do nlot  ii._\  ./  \  :7 15  I  D F)  I.
Impry endorsement rOr acCEPtane by the    A / ft   /  4 eki e  /I
WorlOd Honk nd nftsjikeo  _   sIt   /  Gr  e
'.-/  ng   02ap,.,,,  '      .y              <    '   "    :~~~~~~~/ 
,~~__\111,an Tel,ri____
Y A      A                            00
, \ KILOMETER5 rs'0
\   3rs-                        4t)Ot     



