Report No. 726-ET
Appraisal of a                                                                     FILE COPY
Fourth Education Project
in EthiopiaL
May 2, 1975
Education Projects Divisicin
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the Interrational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for tle accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                Eth$2.07
Eth$1               US$0$.48
MEASURES
1 Meter (m)              =         3.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (m2)      =        10.76 Square Feet
1 Kilometer (km)                   0.6214 Miles
1 Hectare (ha)          =          2.471 Acres
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 to July 7



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .....       ..................  i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION  ..................................         1
II.   DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS         .........  2
Socio-Economic Background .....................         2
Development Objectives  ......       ..................  3
Manpower and the Monetary Sector  ....      ..........  3
Human Resources and Rural Development .... ......       4
III.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND ITS DEVELOPMENT    ......       5
The System and its Problems  .....       ..............  5
The Education Sector Review  .....       ..............  6
Education Policy, Plans and Programs  .... ......       7
IV.   THE PROJECT  ...................................         8
Objectives  ....................................        8
Project Items  .................................    10
V.   COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN, LMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT  ....       ..............   17
Cost Estimates  ........      ........................    17
Financial Plan  ........      ........................    20
Implementation of the Project  .....      ............   21
Procurement  .........      ..........................    22
Disbursements  ........      .........................    23
This report is based upon the findings of a mission which visited Ethiopia
in October-November 1974, composed of Messrs. J.L. Scearce (Architect),
R.D. Loken (Educator), S.R. Santos (Agricultural Educator), C. Gilpin (Rural
Educator), and Ms. S. M. Asher (Economist) all from the Bank Group.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  .....      ...............   23
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .... ......   25
APPENDICES
I.   The Education and Training System
II.   Awraja Administration and Community Skill Training
ANNEXES
1    Comparative Education Indicators
2    Requirements for and Supply of Government Primary
and Secondary School Teachers
3    Manpower Stock and Requirements for the Non-agricultural
Sector by Occupation
4    Manpower Stock and Requirement and Supply for the Non-
agricultural Sector by Occupation and Education
5    Enrollment, School Age Population and Participation
Rates - Primary Schools by Provinces (1971-72)
6    Enrollment, School Age Population and Participation
Rates - Secondary Schools (1972-73)
7    Actual and Projected Enrollments
8    Government Recurrent Expenditure and its
Allocation on Education and Training
9    Criteria for Selection of Site Locations
10    Project Cost by Type of Expenditure
11    Summary of Project Cost
12    Cost Comparison Per Student Place
13    Implementation and Expenditure Schedule
14    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
CHARTS
1.   Educational Pyramid, 1973/1974
2.   Structure of the Government Education System, 1973/1974
RAP






ETHIOPIA
FOJRTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Basic Data (Est.) - 1973
General
Area                                       470,000 sq. miles
Population                                 26.5 million
- of which rural population           23.4 million
Population growth rate                     2.5% p.a.
Literacy rate                              7.0%
Labor force                                10.2 million
- of which rural labor force           9.0 million
Education
Enrollment in (public & private)
primary schools
(grades 1-6)                          0.85 million
- as a percentage of the 7-12
age group                           20.0%
Enrollment in (public & private)
secondary schools
(grades 7-12)                          Ool9 million
- as a percentage of the 13-18
age group                            6.o%
Enrollment in (public & private)
higher education                           9,000
Recurrent expenditure (Ministry of
Education and National
University)                             Eth$123.1 million
- as a percentage of total
government recurrent
expenditure                         20.3%
Total public expenditure (capital
& recurrent) on education & training       Eth$152.3 million
- of which foreign assistance         Eth$ 15.1 million
- as a percentage of GDP               3.4%






GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ARDC        Awraja Rural Development Center
CADU        Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit
CSTC        Community Skill Training Center
CTC         Cooperative Training Center
EOC         Ethiopian Orthodox Church
EOCDC       Ethiopian Orthodox Church Development Commission
EPID        Extension and Project Implementation Department
of the Ministry of Agriculture
ESBU        Elementary School Building Unit of the Ministry of Education
ESR         Education Sector Review
EWWA        Ethiopian Women's Welfare Association
FITC        Forestry In-service Training Center
FRTC        Forest Ranger Training Center
HATC        Health Assistant Training Center
HED         Home Economics Department
MPP         Minimum Package Program
SORADEP     Southern Region Agricultural Development Project
SSC         Social Science Center
TTI         Teacher Training Institute
WADU        Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit
WOAEP       Work Oriented Adult Education Program
MICT        Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism
MNCD        Ministry of National Community Development & Social hffairs
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
MOE         Ministry of Education
MOH         Ministry of Health
MOI         Ministry of Interior
NU          National University
ILO         International Labour Organization
OEM         British Ministry of Overseas Development
SIDA        Swedish International Development Agency
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
Unesco      United Nations Educational Scientific & Cultural Organization
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
UNIDO       United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
GEOGRAPHICAL DIVISIONS
Province (1h)       State             Average population        2,000,000
Awraja   (102)      District             "        "               250,000
Wereda   (581)      Sub-district         "         "               50,ooo






ETHIOP IA
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a fourth education project in Ethiopia for
which IDA assistance of US$23.0 million is proposed.
ii.       Ethiopia with a per capita income of US$80 was virtually unaware
of modern science until some 30 years ago and even though progress has been
made in development, it remains among the least developed of all countries
in the world. Its rugged topography, together with the ethnic diversity of
the population contributes to the difficulty of overcoming the country's
isolation. Even today, it is estimated that barely 7% of the country's 26.5
million population are literate.
iii.      Against this background, the Government recognized the need to
carry out a comprehensive examination of its educational system and to re-
structure it with a view to attaining maximum development impact from limited
resources. This Educational Sector Review (ESR), completed in 1972, recom-
mended a long-term educational strategy. Certain aspects of the recommenda-
tions were opposed by parents, students and the teachers' union which resulted
in strikes and disturbances. The ESR recommendations were, therefore, held
in abeyance.
iv.       In early 1974, civil and military discontent precipitated the
resignation of the Cabinet of the Imperial Ethiopian Government. A new Cabinet
was quickly formed and a committee established to write a new constitution.
In April 1974, the new Cabinet issued a major policy statement committing
itself to a program of basic reforms including land reform, accelerated
economic development, improved distribution of incomes, and a more democratic
political system based upon decentralized administration.
v.        In September 1974, an Inter-ministerial Committee appointed by the
new Government, drafted a new educational policy. The policy, accepted by
the Government, does not radically differ from the main lines of the ESR
proposal except for the retention of the original six-year primary cycle.
vi.       The proposed project follows the basic recommendations of the
Inter-ministerial Committee and would assist in the implementation of a
broad program of basic and specialized education with major emphasis on
expanding and improving opportunities in the remote rural areas with a view
to increased participation of the rural population in the development pro-
cess and improving productivity. This project as proposed complements the
long-term social and economic objectives as set out by the Government. With-
in this context the Government policy also places major emphasis on the
lowering of both capital and recurrent unit costs of education in order to
spread educational services more widely. As regards capital costs, the
project would promote a reduction of unit cost in school construction through



- ii -
simplification of building designs and the utilization to the maximum extent
feasible of local materials, traditional building techniques and the develop-
ment of a self-help program. In regard to recurrent costs, the qualifications
of primary school teachers are being reduced which will result in savings in
teacher training and salaries. Specifically, the proposed project would
provide:
(a)  additional facilities for primary and secondary education in
rural areas together with assistance to major curricula reforms
and support for the expansion of the present mass media educa-
tion radio program;
(b)  the establishment of 100 Community Skill Training Centers and
24 Awraja Rural Development Centers;
(c)  three Agricultural Training Centers for home economics demon-
strators, specialists in agricultural cooperative development
and forest rangers as well as three Centers for the training
of health assistants;
(d)  the provision of new facilities for the Social Science Center
at the National University; and
(e)  operational expenses for project administration.
vii.      An existing Project Unit established within the Ministry of Edu-
cation for the implementation of the first, second and third IDA education
projects would be responsible for the financial and administrative control
of this proposed fourth education project.
viii.     Contracts for civil works for the secondary schools, agricultural
training centers and the social science center, and for furniture and equipment
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. Due to
the remote locations (about 80% of the primary schools would be accessible
only by mule) and small sizes, the most practical and economical method of
constructing the primary schools, mass media radio stations, Community Skill
Training Centers and the Awraja Rural Development Centers is by departmental
forces utilizing the services of the Elementary School Building Unit, which
was established in 1968 as a separate unit within the Ministry of Education
for the design and construction of low cost schools. Furniture and equip-
ment contracts costing less than US$40,000 equivalent each and locally pro-
cured construction materials would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equip-
ment would be allowed a preference of 15% or the existing rate of import
duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign sup-
pliers and qualified domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a
preferential margin of 7-1/2% over bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
The proposed project would be implemented in about six years after credit
effectiveness.



- iii -
ix.       The total project cost is estimated at US$34.7 million, of which
US$10.4 million would be foreign exchange, including contributions by UNICEF
and the British Ministry of Overseas Development of US$1.2 million equiva-
lent in the form of equipment. An IDA credit of US$23.0 million would cover
76% of the cost, net of taxes which are estimated at US$4.4 million, and
would meet the foreign exchange component and 57% of local currency expenditures.
x.        The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$23.0 million equivalent to the Government of Ethiopia.






ETHIOPIA - FOURTH EDIJCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Ethiopia has received three IDA credits for education.  The first
project, financed in 1966 and now completed, assisted the expansion of
secondary, technical and teacher education and the diversification of the
curricula at various levels. The second project, financed in 1971, is
assisting teacher and agricultural education and a limited growth of secon-
dary education to improve its quality and geographical distribution. A
third education project, financed in 1973, is providing assistance to high
priority items in the areas of rural education, teaching of science and
production of textbooks and teaching materials. The implementation of these
projects is generally proceeding satisfactorily.
1.02      During the appraisal of the second project, it became apparent
that Ethiopia needed to carry out a comprehensive examination of its educa-
tion system and to restructure it with the view to attaining maximum develop-
ment impact from limited resources. In 1971, the Government with foreign
technical specialists and financial assistance from the IDA reviewed the
entire education sector. The sector review, completed in 1972, recommended
a new long-term educational development strategy and many of its recommenda-
tions have been incorporated in the present education policy of Ethiopia.
1.03      The proposed fourth project would assist in implementing the
broad education nrogram developed by the Government after the sector review.
This program places major emphasis on expanding and improving opportunities
in the rural areas with a view to increased participation of the rural popula-
tion in the development process and improving productivity. The project as
proposed complements the long-term social and economic objectives set out
in the current policy statement of the new Government which is to accelerate
the pace of development, close the wide income disparities, decentralize de-
cision-making on local development matters and increase self-reliance. Within
this context, the Government policy places major emphasis on the lowering of
both capital and recurrent unit costs of education in order to spread education-
al services more widely. This proposed project would promote a reduction of
school construction cost through simplification of building designs and the
utilization to the maximum extent possible of local materials, traditional
building techniques and the development of a self-help program. In regard
to recurrent cost, the qualifications of primary school teachers are being
reduced which will result in savings in teacher training and salaries. The
total cost of the project is estimated at US$34.7 million, of which US$10.4
million would be foreign exchange, including contributions by UNICEF and the
British Ministry of Overseas Development (ODM) of US$1.2 million equivalent
in the form of equipment.
1.04      The project was prepared and appraised in October-November 1974
by a mission composed of Messrs. J.L. Scearce (Architect), R.D. Loken
(Educator), S.R. Santos (Agricultural Educator), C. Gilpin (Rural Educator),
and Ms. S. It. Asher (Economist), all from the Bank Group.



- 2 -
II. DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS
Socio-Economic Background
2.01      Ethiopia is one of the least developed nations of the world and
was virtually unaware of modern science until some 30 years ago. Ethiopia's
rugged topography and its multi-lingual population made the introduction of
modern science and technology extremely difficult. It is estimated that
even today, only about 7% of the population are literate (Annex 1).
2.02      In early 1974, civil and military strife precipitated the resigna-
tion of the Cabinet of the Imperial Ethiopian Government. A new Cabinet was
quickly appointed and a committee established to write a new constitution.
Ministers and senior government officials were also replaced but the civil
service administration basically remained unchanged and continues to function.
In April 1974, the new Cabinet issued a major policy statement committing
itself to a program of basic reforms, including land reform, accelerated
economic development, improved distribution of incomes and a decentralized
administrative system. Policies are being formulated for most of these re-
forms and the Government is now preparing the ground for major changes in the
socio-economic structure of the country. As one means of accelerating this
process, the Government has closed all higher level schools (grades 11 and
12 in secondary schools and post-secondary institutions including the univer-
sities) for one year, and the 60,000 students and teachers are being deployed
to rural areas to work on projects designed to improve literacy, agriculture,
health, communication and local administration.
2.03      Some 90% of the total Ethiopian population is dependent upon
agricultural and pastoral activities, mostly outside the money economy.
The rural labor force makes up some 88% of the total labor force. In ten
years, this proportion is expected to decline only to about 82%. Much of
the Ethiopian population subsists in regions which are only accessible by
mule. Communications are further hampered by the use of diverse vernaculars
(120 languages) but although the Government is promoting the use of other
major languages to facilitate regional development, it is making determined
efforts to establish Amharic as the "lingua franca" of the country. The
highly centralized system of Government has had little impact on development
in the villages and in the rural areas. The Government' s proposal to de-
centralize and to give more responsibility to the provinces, awrajas (dis-
tricts) and weredas (sub-districts), is an appropriate step in the direction
of regional development.
2r04      Per capita income is estimated at about US$80, and is expected to
reach about US$150 (at 1974 prices) only by the end of the century even if
GDP increases at the assumed rate of 6% p.a. The economy is still largely
based on agriculture and in 1972-73, about 50% of GDP came from agriculture,
while wholesale and retail trade provided the next largest segments (9.5%).
Manufacturing accounts for a mere 5.4% of GDP. During 1957-61, GDP rose by
3.7% p.a., 4.4% during 1961-65 and 4.5% in the following four years. More



- 3 -
recently (1969-73), GDP has increased by only 4.1% p.a. This lower growth
rate is due to fluctuating coffee prices -- the main source of export
earnings -- the closure of the Suez Canal, and also to the inability to
effectively absorb the levels of foreign capital investment available due
to the shortage of trained local manpower to plan and execute development
projects. Agriculture and livestock herding practices remain primitive,
productivity is low and improved exploitation of agricultural resources re-
mains a key to Ethiopian development. An adequate pool of well-trained tech-
nicians and an improved learning system for the rural population is, there-
fore, essential.
Development Objectives
2.05      Ethiopia has produced three 5-year development plans.  The first
two plans gave priority to the development in infrastructure (roads,
tele-communications and power) and the establishment of government-owned
manufacturing industries to encourage import substitution and the process-
ing of local raw materials. The Third Five-Year Plan, which the Govern-
ment has revised and extended to 1974, gave priority to the development
of commercial agriculture, as well as modernizing peasant farming and the
infrastructure which directly supports agriculture such as feeder roads,
research and training. By giving high priority to agriculture, Ethiopia
aims at increasing the rate of economic growth, improving income distri-
bution and lowering the rate of unemployment.
2.06      Since its inception, the new Government has issued several
statements regarding its objectives and policies. The basic aim stated
is to "develop a democratic society founded on freedom, equality and
justice." In practice, these objectives should result in a major shift in
emphasis to the rural areas, involving land and tax reform and the decentral-
ization of government authority to the awraja level with emphasis on develop-
ment rather than law enforcement functions. For the education sector this
involves revision of present curricula and teaching methods; the develop-
ment of rural adult education programs including the use of mass media;
provisions of school facilities in the remote areas; the expansion and
improvement of specialized training programs for agriculture, cooperatives,
local administration and health services personnel. Since one of the
principal aims of the Government is to make each awraja more self-reliant
and to promote rural employment, practical training should be provided to
meet these employment needs and, in addition, the literacy and knowledge
levels of the population must be raised if they are to participate effect-
ively in the development process.
M    _       t             S
2.07      Information on the existing labor force, wage employment and
future manpcwer requirements for growth in the monetary sector of the
country is scanty and often conflicting. The present situation, however,
may be characterized by two contrasting features: (a) an insufficient



- 4 -
supply of middle and high level manpower and (b) growing unemployment of
general secondary and technical school graduates and "dropouts." In modern
manufacturing, some 30% of the professional and technical workers are ex-
patriates and most skilled workers have received only in-plant training.
In teaching, qualified Ethiopian teachers constitute only 35% of the total
in secondary schools and 85% in primary schools (Annex 2) with the remaining
either expatriates or unqualified Ethiopians. A large proportion of the
professional staff of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and most of the
senior staff of externally aided projects such as the Chilalo Agricultural
Development Unit (CADU) are also expatriates.
2.08      Throughout the modern sector, qualified accountants, economists
and administrators are in short supply. These shortages will have to be
reduced and eventually eliminated in order to plan, administer and execute
long-term development programs. On the basis of available information and
estimated enrollment growth, the Bank Group staff has carried out a projec-
tion of manpower needs and supply for the period 1973-84 for the non-agricul-
tural sectors (Annex 3). Current projections of 5%' p.a. enrollment increases
(Annex 4) indicate that during the decade there would be a shortage in the
non-agricultural sector of about 2,000 post-secondary graduates and an apparent
oversupply of 8,000 senior secondary school leavers and 42,000 junior secondary
leavers. However, it is unlikely that the Government can obtain the necessary
capital funds to expand school enrollment at more than 1-2% p.a. which would
therefore reduce the risk of oversupply. A number of these senior secondary
school leavers are expected to fill jobs normally requiring post-secondary
eduication (e.g., teachers) and to replace expatriates and some 45,000 junior
and senior school leavers would be directed towards activities in rural areas
where a large number of agricultural programs are expected to be undertaken
as a part of the rural development program. This is in conformity with the
priority the Government attaches to rural development and administrative
decentralization (para. 2.06).
huuman Resources and Rural Development
2.09      The new development strategy which is expected to be more com-
Drehenisively defined in the next Plan, aims at improving social conditions
and productivity on the land where even in 1990, some 82% of the Ethiopian
labor force will earn its livelihood.   Nearly all the peasant population
is il.Literate and the large majority of adult farmers will most likely
still be unable to read and write in 1990.  An improvement in the quality
of services related to agricultural production (credit, marketing, extension)
may have only a limited impact in improving productivity and the standard
of living on the land if it is not supported by provision for training related
to the farmers' environment and geared towards a gradual modernization of
their attitudes.
2.10      In summary, the development of a long-term strategy for human
resources development is a necessary condition for the successful imple-
mentation of Ethiopia's new development policies. This strategy ought to



- 5 -
take into account the diverse ecological and ethnic composition of the
country, the existing traditional learning systems, the assessed limita-
tions on government finance, the manpower requirements of the economy,
the need for an improved teaching/learning system in rural areas, and the
need to strengthen local government administration in the interest of
integrated rural development.
III. THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND ITS DEVELOPMENT
The System and Its Problems
3.01      The education system consists of six years of primary education
(age 7-12), two years of junior secondary education (age 13-14), four years
of senior secondary education (age 15-18) and three to four years of higher
education (age 19-22). In 1973-74, about 27% of primary enrollments, 12% at
the secondary level and 2% at the third level were in private schools run by
religious and other non-government agencies. Of the total enrollment of
about 1.06 million in 1973-74, 80% was in primary level, 19% was in secondary
level and 1% (about 9,000) in the post-secondary institutions. There has
been a very high rate of growth over the last 20 years, as enrollments in
1950-51 were only 10% of those in 1970-71. Over the last 15 years, the
average annual enrollment growth has been about 11% in primary schools, 19%
in secondary schools and 20% in universities. Notwithstanding this rapid
growth, the participation rate in 1973-74 was very low, being the equivalent
of about 20% of the 7-12 age group in primary schools, 6% of the 13-18 age
group in secondary schools and only about 0.2% of the 19-22 age group in
post-secondary institutions. The participation rate for females was much
lower than for males who accounted for some 70% of total enrollment.
3.02      There are serious inequalities in the distribution of education
opportunities between rural and urban areas. In Addis Ababa, about 70% of
the relevant age group attend primary school as compared with 7% in Harrar
(Annex 5). At the secondary level, disparities are even more pronounced
with three of the provinces, each with a population of two million, having
only one senior secondary school (Annex 6). Also, three provinces having
only about 27% of the secondary school age group account for 55% of the total
secondary school enrollment. Further inequalities are evidenced by the re-
sults of the 12th grade school leavers examination (in 1972, only 18% passed
five subjects required for university admission), whilst 85% of the successful
candidates in 1972 came from only four provinces. Of the group who entered
the universities, two-thirds came from three provinces. Also it should be
noted that of 100 students entering Grade 1, 40 enter Grade 7 (Junior Secon-
dary), 30 enter Grade 9 (Senior Secondary), and 6 enter the university.
3.03      Unqualified teachers by Ethiopian standards represent 30% of the
total teachers in government primary and secondary schools. Expatriate
teachers represent about 40% of teachers for secondary schools and about an
equal percentage in post-secondary schools. The teacher:pupil ratio is



- 6 -
1:50 in primary schools; 1:34 in junior secondary schools; 1:30 in senior
secondary schools; 1:10 in vocational and technical institutes; 1:19 in
teacher training; and 1:8 in post-secondary non-university institutes. These
rates are satisfactory although significant savings in recurrent cost could
be obtained by increasing the number of students per teacher for vocational
and post-secondary institutions.
3.04      Details of the cost and financing of education are given in
Appendix 1 which shows (para. 52) that despite its small size, the educa-
tion system already absorbs some 20% of government revenues. It is not
only for budgetary reasons, however, that the pattern of expansion followed
in the sixties and in the early seventies should not continue. The main
reason is that the existing system does not adequately respond to the socio-
economic needs of the country. The curriculum at each level is oriented
to preparing the students towards the next level and students who drop out or
do not reach higher education are ill suited to the labor market. The pri-
mary school curriculum has virtually no agricultural content and, in secondary
education, although IDA has assisted in broadening the programs, instruction
is still basically urban-oriented. Extensive curricula revision is being
undertaken for both primary and secondary level education. The technical
schools have not developed adequate communication with industry and their
curricula are often inappropriate as indicated by the unemployment of their
graduates. In addition, attention is being given to non-formal education,
agricultural training and to improving learning systems in rural areas, in-
cluding the use of new media.
The Education Sector Review (ESR)
3.05      It is against this background that the Ethiopian Government embarked
upon a comprehensive review of the education system. The ESR, launched in
October 1971 and completed in July 1972, was carried out with assistance pro-
vided by IDA and various other agencies. The major work of the review was
done by 14 task forces and working groups whose membership totalled 85, of
which some 60 were Ethiopians. Three alternative strategies were offered
for achieving the needed reform of the system within a realistic financial
framework. Certain basic proposals were common in all three strategies
(A.ppendix I, para. 7). The final recommendations of the ESR proposed some
major changes in the educational system including modifying the present 6
years primary, 2 years junior secondary and 4 years senior secondary school
cycles to a 4-4-4 year cycle; major curricula revisions; lower teacher quali-
fications and increases and additions to the non-formal and rural training
programs. The basic aims of this strategy were to attain universal primary
education rapidly and inexpensively, to ruralize the curricula, to equalize
educational opportunities and to relate education to the development process.
3.06      However, parents, students and the teachers' union opposed some
aspects of the ESR's recommendations: namely, the proposals to replace the
six-year primary cycle with a four-year minimum formation education and to
train primary school teachers in a one-year program after Grade 8. This
opposition led to widespread strikes and disturbances.  Contsequently,   r   in



- 7 -
1974, an Inter-ministerial Committee was established by the new Government
to re-examine the ESR's proposals.
Education Policy, Plans and Programs
3.07      The education policy proposed by the new Inter-ministerial Committee,
and accepted by the Cabinet in September 1974, does not differ radically from
the main lines of ESRs' proposals except for the retention of the original six-
year primary cycle. In brief, the policy consists of: (a) expanding as rapidly
as possible primary education which would remain a six-year cycle with instruc-
tion carried out in four classroom low-cost school buildings, also to be used
as focal points for work oriented adult education and village development;
(b) making each awraja self-sufficient in skills by providing one secondary
school per awraja, the education programs of which would be geared to specific
awraja requirements; and (c) re-orienting and cautiously expanding post-
secondary and university education in line with estimated labor market absorp-
tive capacity. Intensive activity in curriculum development and reform is
envisaged for all levels and types of education in order, primarily, to gear
the content of instruction of youths and adults to the needs of rural develop-
ment. Changes are also proposed in the methods of instruction (e.g., use of
the four major languages), in the provision of teaching aids (e.g., radio
instruction for youths and adults) and in the content of teacher training to
assist the teachers to become community development leaders.
3.08      The plans in support of this policy call for increasing enrollment
in primary education by some 17% p.a. over the next ten years as against 11%
p.a. in the past, in secondary education by some 5%-6% p.a. as against 19% p.a.
in the past (Annex 7) and for expanding participants in non-formal education
by some 30% p.a. The recurrent finance implications of this expansion have
been worked out in detail: assuming that no new taxes will be introduced and
that total government recurrent expenditure (in 1974 prices) will grow by no
more than 7.5% p.a., total public expenditure on education and training under
all Ministries and Agencies (in 1974 prices) will reach 25% of the gcivernment
budget by 1984 (Annex 8). This is a reasonable figure that conforms with the
ESR recommendations. In addition, studies are underway to explore methods
that would reduce recurrent costs. If these studies lead to practical mea-
sures, recurrent finance will become a lesser constraint than is anticipated
at present. In sum, adequate recurrent financial resources appear to be
available to meet the quantitative targets of the plan. Implementation of
the first phase of the plan would require about Eth$160 million in capital
expenditure for the years 1975-1980. Of this total, Eth$40 million are being
financed as a part of the second and third education projects assisted by
IDA and an additional Eth$40 million would be financed under the proposed
fourth education project.  Thus, IDA would contribute some 50% of the financial
requirements to carry out the first phase of the program.  Of the remaining
Eth$80 milli-on, Eth$30 million are expected to be provided under bilateral
assistance agreements, primarily with Sweden for primary school construction,
the USA for non-formal education and the UK for educational broadcasting. The
Government counterpart funds for these projects and programs (Eth$50 million)
are within public finance capacity and represent 7% of estimated capital
budget for the years 1975-1980.



- 8 -
3.09      More significant than the shift in emphasis towards primary and
non-formal education and the overall financial framework of the plan, are
the proposed changes of curricula and teaching methods throughout the sector.
Task forces have been assembled consisting of teachers, including those
from the university staff and teacher training institutes, to undertake a
complete revision of primary and secondary school curricula in order to pro-
vide useful skills. In addition to the use of Amharic and local languages
in the first years of education and to the expansion of educational broad-
casting for youths and adults, the first phase of the plan calls for the
development of a major program of adult education in the rural areas (para.
3.07). Some experimental work has been carried out successfully and the
Government plans to expand this program with the establishment of a network
of Community Skill Training Centers which would focus on rural skill training
and provide a base for training in literacy, agriculture, health, nutrition
and community development. Local artisans, agricultural extension workers
and health field staff, as well as primary school teachers, would be utilized
as instructors in these Centers.
3.10      Finally, the coordination and implementation of these programs are
to be delegated to the local level. The 14 provinces are divided into 102
awrajas, each of which would have an administrator and staff responsible for
education, health, agriculture, community development and other local related
programs. This decentralization of responsibility is expected to make it
possible to vary the content of programs to fit the needs of each area (para.
3.07) and to improve education and development administration considerably,
particularly in view of Ethiopia's widely varying terrain, climate and ethnic
groups (paras. 2.01-2.04). Seventy awraja administrators with background
experience in rural development administration have already been selected.
IV. THIE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The proposed project would assist Ethiopia's education investment
program by: (a) expanding opportunities for primary and secondary eclucation
in the rural areas combined with curricula revision and the expansion of edu-
cational radio; (b) supporting an integrated rural training program t:hrough
the establishment of awraja administrative units and community skill training
centers; (c) meeting manpower needs for rural development by providing train-
ing for foresters, home economics demonstrators, cooperatives staff and rural
health assistants; and (d) improving the organization of higher education
and research in the social sciences. It would consist of:
(a) construction, furniture and equipment for the
following institutions:



No. of Units          Approximate No. of
Added              Student Places Added
Primary Schools                   550  2                  110,000
Secondary Schools.
Junior Secondary              15                       3,600
Senior Secondary               8                       2,560
Community Skill                                                     2
Training Centers                  100                       3,000 /
Health Assistant
Training Centers                    3                          360
Forest Ranger
Training Center                     1                           40
Home Zconomics
Department  3                       1                           40
Cooperative Training
Center                              1                           80
Awraja Rural Devel op-
ment Centers                       24                         n.a.
Social Science Center               1                          72C/4
Total                        704                     120,40C
/1  55( four-c'assroorn schools or 2,200 classrooms units.
L   Annual outpu+t is estimated at 10,000 since courses are short.
1   Home Bconomiul Department will] be an extension to the Ambo
Ag?icultural Institute.-
/ S. ] l  ,pioe exL sting irt3s.tqua M  a-' ra .i14ties.
ni.a. - not applicable.



- 10 -
(b) construction and equipment for supporting and
servicing facilities for nine radio transmission
stations, including program development;
(c) operational expenses for the task forces on curriculum
development for: preparation of the revisions, text-
books illustrations and cost of orientation work-
shops for training of school personnel in the
use of the revised textbooks;
(d) technical assistance consisting of about two man-
years of specialists' services and ten-and-one-half
years of fellowship training for the Community
Skill Training Centers, the Cooperative Training
Center and the Home Economics Department; and
(e) operational expenses for project administration.
Project Items
General Education and Training
4.02      General.  The proposed project would support the expansion and
provide a more balanced distribution of educational opportunities, at both
primary and secondary levels, particularly in rural areas. The primary
school enrollment ratio would increase from 20% in 1973 to about hO% in
1980 as a result of the project and of a Swedish International Development
Agency (SIDA) program which will also provide additional classrooms during
the period. At the secondary level, an expansion of only 1-2% p.a. would
be obtained but a significant contribution in equalizing educational oppor-
tunities among the provinces would be realized. The project would also
assist in re-orientation of curricula at both levels towards practical work
and studies relevant to the rural environment and the expansion of the radio
network to permit educational broadcasting to schools and adults throughout
Ethiopia. Thus, the project would assist qualitative improvements while
helping to reduce the existing imbalances in the distribution of opportunities
for general education (para. 3.02). The Government is evaluating various
methods of estimating educational efficiency including the possible use of
a student tracer system 1/ and the Association would review progress of, and
provide advice to, education evaluation methodology in Ethiopia in the course
of project supervision. The project would provide items as listed in the
following paragraphs.
4.03      Primary Schools.  Included are provisions for about 550 four-
classroom primary schools.  If further reduction can be achieved below the
estimated cost through self-help and/or the development of more inexpensive
designs using local materials, additional schools would be built. Site
1/   A student tracer system is a method to follow up employment of school
leavers and graduates.



-11 
locations for the schools would be selected according to the criteria outlined
in Annex 9 which was confirmed by the Government during negotiations. The
schools would provide places for 11.0,000 students and the facilities would
also be used for the new rural-oriented practical studies programs. Enrollment
of girls would be encouraged and promoted (para. 3.01). All schools would be
in rural areas and about 80% of the sites would be accessible only by mule.
These schools would be constructed by departmental forces utilizing the services
of the Elementary School Building Unit (ESBU). A self-help program would be
developed to the extent feasible for this construction program.
4.04      Secondary Schools.  Included are provisions for 15 junior second-
ary schools (grades 7-8) and 8 senior secondary schools (grades 9-12), all
in rural areas, which would provide places for 3,600 junior secondary stu-
dents (240 per school) and 2,560 (320 per school) for senior secondary stu-
dents. It is planned that at least one-fourth of the schools would operate
on a double-shift basis, increasing the enrollment by about 1,500. Under
the project, expansion of senior secondary school facilities would not exceed
1-2% p.a. and the target of 5% annual rate of growth, which may lead to a
surplus (para. 2.08), could be reached only if double shift systems are
adopted more widely than currently envisaged and if adequate recurrent
financing is available (Appendix 1, para. 51). The Government confirmed
during negotiations that all secondary schools included in the project would
be located in awrajas which do not presently have any secondary schools
(Annex 9).
4.05      Curriculum Development.  This project item would include travel
expenditures, fees, per diem and supplies required to complete the writing
and illustrating of the new textbooks And teaching materials and training
the teachers in their use. No funds would be provided for the printing of
textbooks which is financed by a revolving fund established as part of the
Education Materials Production Center assisted by the third IDA education
project. The third project also provided for the expansion of the Curri-
culum Development Center. The writing of the various curricula would be
carried out by qualified teachers selected from the schools, colleges and
universities.
4.06      Several task forces would be engaged in the complete revision of
both primary and secondary schools curricula which are at present overly
literary. The new curricula would place emphasis on agriculture, handi-
crafts, commercial training, home crafts and other practical subjects, and
in secondary schools, at least 12 of the 30 weekly class periods would be
devoted to practical studies related to "awraja" requirements (para. 3.07).
The focus would be on education for employment and for wider participation
in Ethiopian development. The education program would include large elements
of productive work as well as study. Included in the course revision plan
would be the retraining of present teachers in the use of the new materials.
4.07      During negotiations, the Government agreed to provide, prior to
the beginning of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a work plan and budget
satisfactory to the Association for implementing this curriculum development
program.



- 12 -
4.08      Radio (Educational Broadcasting).  The proposed project would
assist in the expansion of educational broadcasting by providing services
and supporting facilities for expanding the present small two-station radio
system, which now reaches only 213 of the 2,800 primary schools in five pro-
vinces, to a nationwide eleven-station network. The radio education service
has operated for over 15 years and is fairly effective despite its limited
geographical coverage.  The OD)M would supply the equipment for the nine
additional transmitters and UNICEF would provide 15,000 radio receivers
for school-room use. The proposed project would provide buildings for the
transmission stations, furniture, software, specialized equipment, mobile
repair units and program production support. Site locations have been
selected for all nine transmitter stations. The Government, during negotia-
tions, confirmed that an agreement in principle had been reached with ODM for
the supply of transmitters and related equipment and services and with UNICEF
for the supply of radio receivers.
4.09      Educational broadcasting to schools provides excellent coverage
of subjects such as English, Amharic, Science, Geography, Mathematics and
Social Studies. At present, 30 hours of educational broadcasting per week
is provided, mainly to primary schools. The expansion of the network would
permit a greater diversity of programs reflecting regional differences.
It would also support the adult education program, particularly by allowing
the transmission of educational programs in a greater variety of regional
languages.
4.10      During negotiations, the Government agreed to provide, prior to
the beginning of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a work plan and budget
satisfactory to the Association for implementing the radio program develop-
ment.
Non-Formal Education and Trainin
4.11      Awraja Rural Development Centers (ARDCs).  The project would
provide support for two elements of the Government's plan to provide to
the rural population a coordinated program of education and training ef-
fectively integrated with other development activities. The Government
has selected 24 awrajas as the first phase of a "self-administration  plan
for the country's 102 awrajas. The ARDCs would provide bases for: (a)
decentralization of the administration and the horizontal integration of
government rural development services at the local level; (b) the develop-
ment of a new style of local government under an awraja administrator con-
cerned largely with the promotion of rural welfare and development; (c)
a planning, budgeting and backstopping organization for training and
development programs; and (d) the effective participation of the local
population, represented by an Awraja Council, in the planning and budgeting
of development programs.
4.12      A Government Order in 1973 established the procedures for the
organization of awraja self-administration. An Inter-ministerial Committee
under the direction of the Ministry of Interior (MOI) has been established



- 13 -
to supervise the implementation of the plan. A total of 70 administrators
with background and experience in administration of rural development have
already been selected (para. 3.10). The administrators will coordinate
and supervise the work of all awraja staff and advise the Awraja Council
in the planning and budgeting of awraja programs. The awraja administra-
tion will have direct responsibility, inter alia, for primary and adult
education, public health, agriculture, community development, trade and
commerce, public works and water supply at the local level.
4.13      The decentralization program represents a major change from pre-
vious Ethiopian Government practice. Its success would depend to a large
extent on the calibre and the ability of the awraja administrators and
staff. In addition to providing funds for establishing 24 ARDCs, the pro-
ject would provide for the in-service training of awraja staff and council
members and the reorganization of the Social Sciences Department of the
National University (NU) which is expected to become the main source of
supply for development administrators.
4.14      Community Skill Training Centers (CSTCs).  The proposed project
would establish 100 CSTCs which would have the following objectives: (a)
the introduction of an improved technology to a variety of rural crafts and
skills; (b) upgrading the skills of rural craftsmen; (c) training rural
adolescents for self-employment in rural crafts; (d) providing skill
training as necessary in support of rural public works programs; (e) sup-
porting the introduction of rural-oriented practical studies into the pri-
mary schools; (f) providing an operational base for other rural training
such as the Minimum Package Program (MPP) assisted under IDA Credit No. 416-ET,
cooperative training and the functional literacy program. Each Center would
be located next to a primary school in a wereda market center. A wereda
has an estimated average population of 50,000 and it has been estimated that
6% of the Ethiopian population is engaged full or part-time in traditional
crafts (Appendix II). The instructors would themselves be village craftsmen
who would receive appropriate up-grading and training. Each Center would
have the capacity to train about 100 participants each year in a variety of
short courses.
4.15      The CSTCs would form part of a Work-Oriented Adult Education Pro-
gram (WOAEP) which was planned over a one-year period in 1974. Several im-
portant criteria have been established for the selection of weredas where
the WOAEP will be introduced: (a) the MPP must be in operation and wherever
possible the WOAEP would also assist the rural public works program and the
expansion of basic health services (to be assisted under the proposed pro-
ject); (b) a nucleus of local organization and development-oriented leadership
must exist. The introduction of the WOAEP will be closely tied to the im-
plementation of the ARDCs; and (c) the local community must be willing to sup-
port the program. Applying these criteria, six pilot areas have been
selected for the introduction of the WOAEP. Each area is within an awraja
selected for "self-administration." In each case, baseline surveys were
conducted by the awraja staff, and non-government agencies in the area, and
members of the community were consulted and involved in the planning process.



- 14 -
The need for great flexibility in the design of programs wrl-ch respond to
local needs has also been emphasized.  The United States Ag ..Cy for Inter-
national Development (USAID) is assisting the implenentati - and evaluation
of the W4OAEP in the six pilot areas where programs are to 'Ze launched in
1975. FolloTwing the evaluation of the pilot phase, the Gcvernment plans to
expand the program to 100 weredas during the project implementation period.
The program would be under the general supervision of an Interministerial
Committee but it would be the responsibility of each awraia administration
to implement the program in the areas under its jurisdiction.
4.16      The proposed project would provide the facilities, furniture and
equipment for the Centers and technical assistance consisting of about two-
man-years of specialists' services and one-half year of fellowship training
for staff development. Each Center would also be supplied with learning
materials, tools for skills training and sets of basic hand tools to be
provided to participants on completion of their training. In order that the
Alternative Technology Center of the MOE could act as a laboratory and central
training facility for intermediate technology, it would be supported with
basic tools and equipment and an expert in intermediate technology to assist
with the organization of the Center and the establishmert of its functions
in support to the CSTCs.
4.17      Prior to negotiations, the Government confirmed it had established
an Interministerial Committee for the overall planning and supervision of the
WOAEP and the CSTCs.
4.18      During negotiations, the Government agreed: (a) that training of
instructors and skill training courses in the CSTCs included in the project
wotld be carried out in accordance with a plan acceptable to the Association;
(b) to provide to the Association for its review and comments, information on
evaluation design and reports for the WOAEP; and (c) confirmed its agreement
to the criteria (Annex 9) established for the location of sites for the CSTCs.
Agricultural and Health Training
4.19      Forest Ranger Training Center (FRTC).  The proposed project would
provide for the construction, furnishing and equipping of a training center
for forest rangers. Ethiopia has forest reserves which, if properly ex-
ploited, can become a valuable resource. Due to the indiscriminate clear-
ing of forests, however, more than three-fourths of the original forest area
which covered 25% of the country have been destroyed. At the present: time,
protection and management of the widely scattered forested sections of the
country are carried out by some 600 employees of whom only 20 have had some
forestry training. The proposed 40 student-place FRTC would offer a two-year
post-secondary course (grades 13-14) to meet the need for adequately trained
forestry technicians. This facility would be located within the compound of
an existing 16 student-place Forestry In-Service Training Center (FITC) at
Menagesha fcr low level field staff which is scheduled to be renovated with
assistance from the ODM by about the end of 1975. The teaching stafi- of
both Centers (FRTC and FITC) would consist of two expatriate instructors, to



- 15 -
be provided by the ODM, and two local counterpart instructors to be recruited
from the existing qualified foresters in the country.
4.20      Home Economics Department (HED).  The Home Economics Division of
the Agricultural Extension Service started operating in January 1974, in
line with the Government's wish to encourage and obtain more participation
from women in the development process (para. 3.01). The proposed 40 student-
place HED, to be added to the Ambo Institute of Agriculture, would offer a
two-year post-secondary technician course for women in home economics, agri-
culture and extension education. The training would focus on helping village
women develop skills in family care, home management, home crafts and agricul-
tural production, thus, enabling them to participate more effectively in
rural development. The teaching staff of the proposed facility would con-
sist of one expatriate instructor who would be provided by SIDA and a local
counterpart instructor who currently is in Ghana, pursuing studies towards
a Bachelor's degree in Home Economics. In addition, one assistant instruc-
tor would be recruited from existing qualified staff of the Home Economics
Division of the Agricultural Extension Service. All agriculture and exten-
sion education courses would be handled by the staff of the Ambo Institute
of Agriculture. For staff development, the proposed project would provide
six man-years of fellowships for advanced training in rural home economics
perferable in a suitable African country such as Ghana.
4.21      Cooperative Training Center (CTC).  The Government's rural develop-
ment program places considerable emphasis upon the formation of village
cooperatives as a means of providing credit and other inputs particularly
for agricultural enterprises, the promotion of small scale industries and
the improvement of marketing, processing and distribution of village pro-
ducts. During the next ten years, on-going regional agricultural projects
alone would require at least 80 new village cooperative organizers each
year. At the present time, however, no training institution with adequate
facilities for the training of cooperative workers exists. The Awasa
Community Development Center, which has been utilized for the training of
cooperative organizers and cooperative marketing assistants on an ad hoc
basis, does not have adequate space and facilities even for its own community
development trainees. The proposed 80 student-place CTC would offer a ten-
month post-junior secondary course for cooperative organizers, five months
of which would be off-campus on-the-job training. This arrangement would
enable the Center to train two groups of trainees in one-and-a-half years,
if necessary, or to conduct in-service training, farmer training and training
for cooperative assistants when the regular students are off-campus. This
Center would be administered by the MOA in cooperation with the Ministry of
National Community Development and Social Affairs. Four Ethiopian trainees
under ODM fellowships are now abroad for advanced training in cooperatives.
Upon completion of their studies, they would staff the Center. The proposed
project would also provide four man-years of fellowships for staff development.
A site location for the CTC would be selected according to criteria (Annex 9)
confirmed by the Government durIng negotiaLions.



- 16 -
4.22      Health Assistant Training Centers (HATCs).  Until recently, the
country's health services were concentrated in its 80 hospitals, 13 of which
are in Addis Ababa. As a result of a health services study, completed in
1971, the Government decided to shift its emphasis from the building of
costly major hospitals to the provision of District Health Centers and village
level Health Stations. At the village level Health Station minimal medical
services would be provided by a staff of two health assistants (paramedics),
one senior nurse and one laboratory technician. The goal is 1,500 Health
Stations and 650 are already in operation. The Health Centers, of which there
are now 93, the second line of defense, provide more complete medical services
and are staffed with qualified physicians. Patients who cannot be treated at
the Health Centers are referred to the hospitals. This three-tier system
of health services will provide much more complete geographic availability
of services at a much lower cost than would be provided by expanding the
hospital system.
4.23      New Health Stations are being built at the rate of 50 p.a.  How-
ever, up to the present time, for lack of adequate facilities, the train-
ing of health assistants has not been started and the Health Stations are
staffed with dressers. 1/ The proposed project would assist in the training
of health assistants and re-training of dressers by providing for the con-
struction, furnishing and equipping of three HATCs each with 120 places,
located in Yabelo (Sidamo), Woldiya (Wello), and Shambo (Wollega). [t would
also assist in constructing and equipping 15 Health Stations where the
students would be given on-the-job training. These Health Stations would
each be provided with hostel accommodations for five students and would be
located so that each HATC would have easy access to five Health Stations.
Trainees would be selected from students who have completed grade 10 or 11.
The training courses would be 18 months, three months of which would be
spent in internship. It would include courses in preventive medicine, the
treatment of common ailments and injuries and childbirth. The teaching
staff would be selected from among the health officers of the Ministry of
Health (MOH) and would be assisted on a part-time basis by community nurses
and sanitarians.
Higher Education
4.24      Social Science Center (SSC).  In line with the Government's poli-
cies, curricular and organizational changes have been taking place at the
National University (NU) during the last three years. Among the major
changes now being implemented is the consolidation of all social science
disciplines under one administration to facilitate the integration of
teaching and research in the social sciences and training of development
adrninistrators (paras. 2.04, 2.07 and 3.10). To bring about more effective
consolidation, the proposed project would assist in constructing, furnishing
and equipping a SSC which would accommodate all the social science disciplines
1/   A medical orderly with one year of first aid training after grade 8.



- 17 -
including: (a) all social science departments now under the Faculty of Arts,
(b) the School of Social Work, (c) the College of Business Administration,
(d) the Extension Division, and (e) the Institute of Development Research.
About 700 students would use the proposed SSC aside from some 5,000 students
who would be expected to attend extension classes during off school hours
each year. The SSC would replace the buildings currently occupied by the
School of Social Work, the Institute of Development Research and a part of
the Socio-Anthropology department which are poorly constructed and are
scheduled for demolition. The classrooms and offices which would be vacated
by the College of Business Administration and by other social science de-
partments would be utilized by the Audio Visual Center and the Education
Research Center of the NU which are now occupying termite-ridden and extreme-
ly sub-standard wooden structures. No substantial increase in the overall
enrollment of the NU would result from the establishment of the SSC.
4.25      Studies are underway by the Government to explore methods that
would reduce recurrent cost in the education sector. During negotiations,
the Government confirmed its agreement to review with the Association from
time to time its policies and plans for introducing cost reduction measures
in the education sector.
V.  COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Cost Estimates
5.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$34.7 million
equivalent. The estimated cost and foreign exchange component of the
various categories of expenditures are given in Annexes 10 and 11 and
sumrarized below:



- 18 -
Eth$ (Millions)           US$ (Millions)       % of
Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Cost
I. Civil Works, Furniture,
Equipment & Professional
Services
1. Primary Schools          10.13    3.90   14.03    4.90    1.88    6.78    37%
2. Secondary Schools         3.30    2.22    5c52    1.60    1.07    2.67    14%
3. Radio (Educational
Broadcasting)           0.39    0.90    1.29    0.19    0.43    0.62        3%
4. Community Skill
Training Centers        1.24    o.80    2.04    o.60    0.39    0.99        5%
c. Awraja Rural Devel-
opment Cent.-rs         1.09    0.68    1.77    0.53    0.33    0.86        5%
6. Forest Ranger
Training Center         0.16    0.18    0.34    0.07    0.09    0.16        1%
7. Cooperative
Training Center         0.19    0.15    0.34    0.09    0.07    0.16        1%
8. Home Economics Dept.      Co14    0.12    0.26    0.07    0.06    0.13        1%
9. Health Assistant
Training Centers        1.61    0.76    2.37    0.77    0.37    1.14        6%
10. Social Science Center    2.80    1.29    4.09    1.35    0.62    1.97    log
Sub-total I              21.05   11.00   32005   10.17    5.31   15.48    84%
II. Curriculum/'Radio Program
Development                  2.87    0.15    3.02    1.39    0.07    1.46        8%
III. Technical Assistance         0.09    0.30    0.39    0.04    0.15.   0.19        1%
IV. Project Administration       1.72    0.93    2.65    0.83    0.45    1.28        7%
Base Cost (Sub-total I-IV) 25.73   12.38   38.11   12.43    5.98   18.41   100%
V. Contingencies
1. Physical increase (8%)   2.22    o.95    3.17    1.07    0.46    1.53
2. Price increase (50%)    13.31    5.59   18.90    6.43    2.70    9.13
Sub-total V              15.53    6.54   22.07    7.50    3.16   1O.66
Total (I - V)            41.26   18.92   60.18   19.93    9.14   29.07
VI. UNICEF  (Equipment)            -      1.62    1.62             0.78    0.78
VII. ODM  (Equipment)                      0 o.89    o.89    -      o.4      0.43
Total (]: - VII)         41.26   21.43   62.69   19.93   10.35   30.28
VIII. Taxes                         9.10     -      9.10    4.40       -      4.40
PROJECT TOTAL (I-VIII)      50.36   2^ .4    71.79   24.33   10,3   34.68



- 19 -
5.02      Construction, furniture and equipment costs have been derived
from recent quotations received for similar project items in the second IDA
education project (Credit 243-ET) and other projects, with adjustments to
reflect proposed changes in existing standardized building designs and
master lists of furniture and equipment. These changes would promote a re-
duction of unit costs through simplification of building designs, utilizing
to the maximum extent possible local materials, traditional building tech-
niques, and the development of self-help program for construction. The
proposed schedules of accommodations are functional, austere and costs per
student place compare favorably with similar institutions financed in
other Bank Group education projects (Annex 12). Furniture and equipment
would be kept to a minimum and of the type pertinent to the basic needs of
the country to accomplish the educational objectives of the project.
5.03      Custom Duties and Taxes.  As a result of a recent government
decree, all imported items, except items directly supplied by donor agencies,
will be subject to taxation. The Government will, however, supplement the
budget of the various government agencies by the amount of taxation. The
base cost of the project has been costed net of import duties and taxes
which are estimated at about US$4.4 million equivalent. During negotia-
tions, the Government confirmed that the necessary budget allocations
will be made to the various government agencies 1/ involved in the project
to cover such taxation and that allocations will be timely to prevent any
possible delay in project implementation.
5.04      Contingency Allowances.  For physical increases, 10% has been added
to the base cost of civil works and professional services (architectural/
engineering) and 5% to furniture, equipment, curriculum/radio program develop-
ment, technical assistance, and project administration. Estimated price
increases are based upon the following annual rates for which price escalation
has been calculated from the base cost date (April 1, 1975) in accordance
with the implementation schedule (Annex 13).
Professional Services,
Curriculum/Radio Program
Furniture       Development, Technical
Civil        and          Assistance and Project
Works     Equipment             Administration
1975                  16%          12%                 7-1/2%
1976                  14%          10%                 7-1/2%
1977-79               12%           8%zc               7-1/2%
1980                  10%           7%                 7-1/2%
1/   Ministries of Education, Agriculture, Health, Interior and the National
University.



- 20 -
Total contingencies represent about 58% of the base cost estimate, of which
8% represents physical increases and 50% for expected price increases.
5.05      Recurrent cost generated by the proposed project is estimated at
Eth$6.6 million p.a. at 1974 prices or about 3.4% of the estimated recur-
rent cost of education in 1978/79. The Government attaches high priority
to the proposed project and is expected to be able to provide these expend-
itures, including its share of the capital costs (para. 3.08).
5.06      The foreign exchange component has been calculated as follows:
(a) civil works, 20%; (b) professional services (architectural/engineering),
50%; (c) furniture, 75%; (d) equipment, 90%; (e) curriculum/radio program
development, 5%; (f) project administration, 35%; and (g) technical assist-
ance, 85%. Including contingencies, the foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$9.2 million or 32% of the total project cost net of taxes
and excluding financial contribution by other donor agencies. An IDA Credit
of US$23.0 million would cover 76% of the project cost, net of taxes which are
estimated at US$4.4 million, and would meet the foreign exchange component and
57% of local currency expenditures.
Financial Plan
5.07      The total project cost of US$34.7 million equivalent would be
financed as follows:
Govt. of      IDA
Ethiopa    Credit    ODM    UNICEF    TOTAL
1.   Civil Works              1.98       9.90      -         -      11.88
2.   Prof. Services           0.04        0.14     -         -        0.18
3.   Furniture                0.38        1.15     -         -        1.5:3
4.   Equipment                0.19        1.70    0.43      0.78      3.10
5.   Curriculum/Radio
Program Development  0.29         1.17      -        -        1.46
6.   Technical Assistance   0.04          0.15     -         -        0.19
7.   Project Admin.           0.22        1.06     -         -        1.28
8.   Contingencies            2.93        7.73     -         -       10.66
Total                6.07       23.00   0.43       0.78    30.28
9.   Taxes                    4.40         -       -         -        4.40
TOTAL               10.47       23.00   0.43       0.78    34.68



- 21 -
Implementation of the Project
5.08      Administration.  The existing Project Unit, established within
the Construction and Maintenance Department of the MOE for the implementa-
tion of the first, second and third IDA education projects, would be re-
sponsible for the financial and administrative control of the proposed
fourth project and liaison with the Association. The Unit would also
coordinate with the various Ministries and agencies involved in the pro-
ject including the ESBU. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that
it would review with the Association prior to implementing any plans for:
(a) introducing any substantial changes in the structure or operational pro-
cedures of the Project Unit; and (b) any new appointment to the position of
project manager of the Project Unit.
5.09      The ESBU, established as a separate unit within the MOE in 1968,
would construct the primary schools, radio transmission stations, CSTCs and
the ARDCs. Due to the remote locations and small sizes, the only practi-
cal and economical method to construct these facilities is by departmental
forces (force account). In addition to capital cost for construction, salaries
of engineers and operational exPenses would be included for project admin-
istration. Studies have been undertaken by the Government to re-organize
the ESBU to ensure that proper policies and programs, including coordination
between the various agencies, are followed. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to provide prior to the beginning of each fiscal year of
the Borrower, a work plan and budget satisfactory to the Association for
the construction program utilizing departmental forces. The work plan and
budget would indicate, inter alia, the proposed coordination of work activities
between the Project Unit and the ESBU including work financed from oi:her
sources. In addition, a yearly report of actual accomplishments wouLd be
presented to the Association. These reports would be patterned after the
yearly reports currently prepared by the ESBU for the Government and SIDA.
5.10      During negotiations, the Government agreed to advance funds as
required on a quarterly basis to be administered by the Project Unit to
ensure the timely implementation of civil works by departmental forces,
curriculum/radio program development and for project administration.
5.11      Auditing would be required on yearly basis on expenditures incurred
bv the Project Unit and the ESBU for curriculum/radio program development,
project administration and force account construction work. Auditors would
be appointed in consultation with and on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association. Audit reports would be patterned after reports currently
prepared by the ESBU.
5.12      Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering).  Design and
supervision of construction of secondary schools, the FRTC, the CTC, the
HED and the HATCs would be carried out by the Project Unit. Design and
supervision of primary schools, radio transmission stations, CSTCs, and the
ARDCs would be carried out by the ESBU under the direction of the Project Unit.
Standardized building designs developed for previous projects would be modi-
fied where appropriate for these facilities.



- 22 -
5.13      Design and supervision of construction of the SSC for the Univer-
sity would be carried out by architects/engineers to be selected and com-
missioned on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The con-
sultants would be under the supervision of the Project Unit through the
University architect.
5.14      Site Selection.  Satisfactory sites have been selected for the HED,
FRTC and the SSC. Site locations have also been selected for the radio
transmission stations, the ARDCs and the HATCs. All remaining locations and
sites will be selected based upon criteria (Annex 9) agreed upon during nego-
tiations (paras. 4.03, 4.04, 4.18 and 4.21).
Procurement
5.15      Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment and imported con-
struction materials would be awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's Guidelines for Procurement
except as follows:
(i)  The construction of primary schools, radio transmission
stations, the CSTCs and the ARDCs would be by depart-
mental forces (force account) utilizing the services of
the ESBU;
(ii)  Civil works contracts costing less than US$200,000
equivalent each;
(iii)  Furniture and equipment contracts costing less than
US$40,000 equivalent each; and
(iv)  Locally procured construction materials.
5.16      Contracts for items (ii) to (iv) in the preceeding paragraph would
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with local procedures which are satisfactory to the Association.
5.17      Standardized sketch designs, draft tender documents and master
lists of construction materials, furniture and equipment would be reviewed
by the Association. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to
permit bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents for civil
works by the Association prior to award would be required only for contracts
above US$200,000 equivalent; for equipment, furniture and construction materials,
review prior to award would not be required for contracts less than US$40,000
equivalent.
5.18      Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed
a preference of 15% or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is
lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers. Qualified
domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of
7 1/2% over bid prices of competing foreign contractors.



- 23 -
Disbursements
5.19      Disbursement (Annex 14) would be on the basis of:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for imported construction
materials, furniture, equipment, including vehicles
and technical assistance;
(b) 85% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) of locally
manufactured furniture and equipment;
(c) 80% of expenditures for civil works and professional
services, and of local expenditures for locally procured
construction materials, curriculum/radio program develop-
ment, and salaries and operational expenses of project
administration; and
(d) 60% of local expenditures for locally procured imported
furniture and equipment.
5.20      All disbursements would be fully documented except disbursements
against curriculum/radio program development and project administration,
which would be made against a certificate of expenditure, documentation of
which would not be submitted for review but would be retained by the Borrower
and would be available for inspection by the Association in the course of
project supervision.
5.21      The project would be implemented in about six years (Annex 13)
after credit effectiveness with a proposed Closing Date of December 31, 1981.
Undisbursed funds would be used for additional primary schools or otber pro-
ject related items as approved by the Association.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The proposed project would provide financial and technical assist-
ance to move the Ethiopian education and training system toward its objec-
tive of becoming an active, contributive force in the development process.
The Government has made significant changes in development policy which, to
a large extent, depend upon an effective educational system for their imple-
mentation (paras. 2.06-2.09). Possibly the most momentous of these changes
in development policy is the shift of emphasis from the urban to the rural
areas with the objective of improving income distribution, standards of
living, education and other opportunities. The items which make up the
proposed project, taken together, provide facilities, equipment and technical
assistance required to help accomplish these objectives.
6.02      The benefits expected from the proposed project can be summarized
in four principal categories: (a) complete reform of the curricula in



- 24 -
primary and secondary schools with emphasis on practical skills and the pro-
vision of additional school facilities in the rural areas to improve educa-
tional opportunity; (b) the provision of rural skill training facilities
to enable the rural population to improve its productivity and increase its
participation in the development process; (c) the provision of the addi-
tional high and middle level manpower required for development work in
specialties such as administration, health, forestry, home economics and
cooperatives; and (d) the provision of facilities and trained personnel to
expedite the process of decentralizing the Government operations, including
those of the Ministry of Education. In terms of employment, during the
construction period the project would create about 1,500 jobs p.a. and, after
completion of construction, would provide permanent employment for at least
5,000 people. The permanent employment would be created almost solely in
rural areas where so far wage employment has been insignificant.
6.03      All of the items in the proposed project are directly related to
the Government's plan to decentralize the economic and social development
process. In particular, the 550 primary schools and 23 secondary schools
would be sited in rural locations and would assist in equalizing educational
opportunities among the provinces and would all have a strong practical
studies bias in their curricula (paras. 4.02-4.06). The radio broadcasting
program for mass education would have nationwide coverage and would devote
time to health, nutrition, agriculture and related topics as well as academic
subject matter (paras. 4.08-4.09). The ARDCs would provide the focal points
to coordinate and administer all rural development efforts at the local level
(paras. 4.11-4.13). The CSTCs would be devoted to the training of people in
rural areas in useful and practical skills (paras. 4.14-4.16). The specialized
training programs in domestic science, forestry, health and cooperative de-
velopment would provide trained personnel to assist in the rural areas (paras.
4.19-4.23). The objectives of the project are far reaching and some com-
ponents of the project are complex. For this reason, arrangements have been
made by the Government for evaluation of the programs promoted by the pro-
ject and these will be monitored by the Association (para. 4.02).
6.04      Risks involved in the project.  The principal risk to be con-
sidered is the long-term commitment to educational reform. However, the
present five year education plan (1974-79) is largely based on the findings
of the 1972 Education Sector Review, an exceptionally thorough study of
Ethiopia's educational needs, conducted during the previous regime which
also recognized the need for fundamental changes in the educational system.
It is doubtful, therefore, that changes in government would result in major
changes in the educational plans or in the priority given to this prcject.
There is some risk involved in placing additional responsibility for an
increased school construction program on the ESBU, particularly with the
development of a self-help component, and in view of the fact that the ESBU
is taking on other construction responsibilities for the Ministry of Health
and others.  It is expected that the Government's planned reorganization
of the ESBU, and additional assistance anticipated from SIDA, will alleviate
this problem.



- 25 -
6.05      In spite of these risks, the proposed project's objectives and
potential benefits point to its suitability as a part of the overall strat-
egy to activate the development processes, change the educational objectives
and increase mass participation in education, training and development and
bring about a more equitable distribution of economic wealth among the pop-
ulation.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following principal points:
(a) Criteria for site selection, training of instructors,
work programs and budgets for curriculum development
and educational broadcasting, and educational
evaluation (paras. 4.03, 4.04, 4.07, 4.10, 4.18 & 4.21);
(b) Project implementation procedures (paras. 5.03, 5.08,
5.09 and 5.10); and
(c) Cost reduction method for the education sector (para. 4.25).
7.02      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$23.0 million equivalent on standard IDA terms to the Government. of
Ethiopia.






APPENDIX I
The Education and Training System
Introduction
1.        Until recently the Ethiopian Orthodox Church (EOC) and the mission
churches provided most of the education that was available. The Ethiopian
Government only began any real effort to provide public education after the
Second World War. Since 1950 the rate of educational expansion has been
relatively rapid, yet in 1973 only 20% of the primary school age group and
6% of the secondary school age group were in schools.
Enrollments       Enrollments /1         Index
Grades            1959-60           1973-74            1960 = 100
1 - 6             200,000           854,000                427
7 - 8              14,600           102,500                695
9 -12               5,200            82,000              1,577
Higher Education      827            10,000              1,219
/1   Enrollment in government and non-government schools.
Source: Ministry of Education
These figures exclude about 500,000 enrolled in the "reading schools"
operated by the EOC and a large but unknown number in the "Koranic Schools"
of the Moslem community.
2.        The churches and other private organizations also make a signif-
icant contribution both to the training of professional staff for the
modern sector and to a variety of non-formal education and training oppor-
tunities for out-of-school adolescents and adults. Training programs are
also operated by several different government ministries and the Government
has recently formulated a plan to coordinate and integrate this multiplicity
of training efforts in line with its overall development goals.
3.        The three previous IDA education projects have assisted the quali-
tative as well as quantitative aspects of education in Ethiopia. The first
and second IDA education projects provided assistance to introduce a diversi-
fied curriculum at the secondary level, including pre-vocational studies in
agriculture, industrial arts, commerce and domestic science. In 1971-72 the
Government undertook a review of the entire education sector with foreign
assistance financed under the second IDA education project. Fourteen task
forces carefully studied all elements of the educational system and recommen-
ded changes. Many of these recommendations have been incorporated in the
present draft five-year plan for education (1974-79).



APPENDIX I
Page 2
Language Policy
4.        Amharic is the official national language in Ethiopia and is the
language of instruction throughout the primary school system. However, there
are about 4 major local languages in Ethiopia and over 100 languages in all.
In the past the Government discouraged concessions to local languages other
than Amharic, even in communication between government agencies, and the
population. The new Government recently declared that greater use of other
Ethiopian languages would be encouraged. This is particularly important for
development programs. Agricultural extension staff will be assigned to areas
where they can speak the local language, radio programs for farmers will be
broadcast in the local language, etc.
The Structure, Management and Planning of Public Education
5.        The structure of public education comprises:
(a) a six-year primary cycle (first level) with a normal entry
age of 7;
(b) a two-year junior secondary cycle;
(c) a four-year senior secondary cycle; and
(d) higher education, which is carried out at eleven colleges
and faculties comprising the National University and in
other post-secondary institutions.
Promotion to the next level is based on the results of a national examination
at the end of the preceeding level.
6.        Management of public education at the primary and secondary levels,
including technical education and primary and junior secondary teacher train-
ing, is centralized in the Ministry of Education (MOE). Fourteen provincial
education offices have been created to supervise teachers, organize examina-
tions, and inspect schools but most do not have sufficient staff to fulfill
their tasks. Although the MOE is also responsible for supervising non-govern-
ment schools with the aim of assuring equivalence in standards, its influence
on the private schools sector is only nominal due to the weaknesses of the
school inspectorate. The Ministry is at present designing a broader and more
comprehensive scheme to improve the quality of instruction offered in private
schools. Improvement of the training of school supervisors is one of the
objectives of the Academy of Pedagogy assisted by IDA and new in-service train-
ing courses for teachers in the non-government sector are also underway.
7.        The Education Sector Review (ESR), completed in 1972, produced a
comprehensive analysis of the education and training systems and developed
three "Alternative Strategies" to meet the Ethiopian education problems.
Alternative I proposed little change from the traditional system, limited
increases in nonformal education and a slow rate of expansion. Alternative
II proposed restructuring the school cycle to a 4-4-4 pattern, major increases



APP iNDIX I
Page 3
in, and additions to, the nonformal education program .and coawAe-e  evision
of all curricula.  Alternative III proposed that the sc,hco  agI    -a raisnnd to
9, that qualifications for teachers be lowered, that grades 5 and 6 be
eliminated, that new 2-year "Basic Formation" program be offered t:o out-of-
school, 13-15 year old children and extensive expansion of nonformal educa-
tion all of which would accelerate the achievement of universal education.
The final recommendations offered were a blend of Alternatives II and IlI
with heavy emphasis on rural education, education for development and enroll-
ment expansion aimed at equalizing educational opportunities.
8.        Considerable improvement in educational plarnning has res3ulted from
the ESR which forced a detailed re-evaluation of the educatioral plan rnd
priorities. Of particular importance was the emphasis placed bv thie ESR on
expanding primary education, the recognition of the need to provide schools
in the rural areas and the need to review the curricula to expand practical
subjects and make education work-related. The ESR also encouraged the MOE to
take a more realistic view of Ethiopia's financial constraints and tc build
cost saving features into the educational system. As a result, once the new
plans are implemented, the cost-per-student should decrease for both capital
and recurrent expenditures.
9.        Within the IOE itself, a great deal remains to be done in strength-
ening certain Divisions; such as the School Inspectorate, and in improving
coordination between Divisions. The present plan of gradually decentralizing
responsibility for educational operations to the awraja level ought to result
in major improvements throughout the system.
Efficiency of the Sector
10.       Ethiopia, with one of the lowest per capita incomes in Africa,
already spends 20% of total central government expenditures on education
recurrent expenditure. Yet, it has an estimated adult literacy rate of only
7% and a low level of primary school enrollment which is concentrated in the
towns and along the few main roads. Secondary school enrollments are also
very low and heavily concentrated in the urban areas. The major constraint
on educational expansion is the high cost of teacher salaries. The median
teacher salary represents about 20 times the GNP per capita for primary
teachers and 30 times for secondary teachers. The social pressures for
continued rapid expansion of enrollment are intense but the rate of expansion
must be reduced, particularly at the costliest levels, if recurrent education
expenditures are not to exceed 25% of the total budget as recommended by the
ESR.
11.       The Government has had an agreement with the Swedish International
Development Authority (SIDA) since 1965 to add or replace classrooms at the
rate of 2,000 p.a. The Elementary School Building Unit (ESBU) is implementing
the scheme and has been successful in effecting major reductions in construc-
tion costs. SIDA provides technical assistance and 50% of the cost of building
the schools. This program is regularly supplemented by local self-help efforts
in the rural areas.



APPENDIX I
Page 4
12.       Promotion and completion rates are still poor, though improving.
About 55% of students enrolled in Grade 1 complete Grade 6. Only 18% of
those who sat for the Grade 12 examination passed the requirements for
university admission. Even those who are admitted to the University must
take a special "freshman year" program in science, English and mathematics
to prepare them for university courses.
13.       Both primary and secondary education have been characterized by
overly literary curricula. The primary school curriculum is still oriented
mainly toward preparation for entry into secondary education. Only 20% of
the school-time was devoted to practical subjects. Curriculum changes
underway are expected to increase the emphasis on practical and environmental
studies as nearly half of the school-time would be devoted to these subjects.
Curriculum reforms are being coordinated with changes in primary teacher
training. Support for curriculum development in the third IDA education
project and the proposed fourth education project, should accelerate these
reforms.
14.       At the secondary level the distribution of enrollment is very
uneven with 95% in general secondary schools, 3% in technical vocational
schools and 2% in teacher training institutes. The first two IDA education
projects began the process of introducing a diversified curriculum into secon-
dary schools. Nearly half of the schools now have the facilities and equip-
ment required for these practical subjects. Curriculum revisions now underway
would place additional emphasis on practical studies and would provide a
choice of five different streams--agriculture, industrial arts, commerce,
domestic science and academic--in most of the secondary schools. It is
hoped that the new curriculum, with its complementary intensified in-service
teacher training, will improve the learning level of the students.
Private Education
15.       Several private schools are under the supervision of the MOE.
Their curricula must conform to those in the Government's education system
or be approved by the education authorities. The bulk of the enrollment
is at the primary level (about 210,000) and the MOE expects that more than
half a million pupils will find places in private primary schools by 1980-81.
With some exceptions, the quality suffers from the same weaknesses as do
the government primary schools: insufficient qualification of the teachers,
over-crowding, etc. It is estimated that at least 70% of the teachers in
private primary schools (or some 3,000) have had no pedagogical training.
In general secondary education, private schools cater to only 15,000 stu-
dents and the quality is reported to be better than in government schools.
Some of these schools, however, serve mainly the foreign communities which
have established them.
16.       Several private commercial schools were established in the last
few years: In Addis Ababa some 15-20 schools have an enrollment estimated
at about 2,000 and give one or two-year courses after grade 8.



APPENDIX I
Page 5
Teacher Training
17.       Primary teachers receive one year of post-secondary training at
one of the five Teacher Training Institutes (TTIs). The capacity of the TTIs
is 3,020 p.a. Two additional TTIs are under construction and will soon pro-
vide an additional 1,000 p.a. Enrollment in private teacher training insti-
tutes is estimated at 150. In 1973, the staff of the TTIs included 21 ex-
patriates and 159 Ethiopians.
18.       The curriculum of the TTIs is undergoing revision to conform with
the changes in the primary school curriculum. In addition, in-service
training is being intensified with the assistance of the Academy of Pedagogy.
Greater emphasis would be given to the teaching of agriculture and practical
subjects and to the role of the teachers in rural development.
19.       Junior secondary school teachers receive two years of post-secondary
training at the TTIs or at the Bahr Dar Polytechnic Institute. The annual
output is about 500 teachers. The new IDA-assisted Teacher Training College
in Nazareth will soon add 300 additional teachers p.a. The supply of junior
secondary school teachers appears to be adequate.
20.       About 400 senior secondary teachers are trained each year.  The
principal sources are the universities. Teachers of academic subjects receive
a four-year course, with a minor or major in education. Teachers of practical
subjects are trained at the National University in a two-year, post-secondary
diploma course. The outputs from both of these programs are expected to double
during the next five years. At present, there is a critical shortage of trained
teachers of practical subjects. Teachers of industrial arts are trained in a
two-year, post-secondary course at Bahr Dar Polytechnic. The output is 50 p.a.
Teachers of Agriculture are trained in a two-year, post-secondary course at
the Jimma Agricultural Institute. The output is 50 p.a. Teachers of French
in secondary schools receive four years of post-secondary training at: the
Ecole Normale Superieur, a privately financed school in Addis Ababa. The out-
put of 50 p.a. exceeds requirements.
Technical and Commercial Education
21.       There are two technical institutes in Addis Ababa and one in Asmara
with 3-4 year courses for Grade 8 leavers. The Bahr Dar Polytechnic Institute
provides 2-year, post-secondary training. Subjects offered include machine-
shop, bench fitting, welding, sheetmetal work, electricity and electronics,
automotive m.aintenance, carpentry and other building trades.
22.       The two technical institutes were expanded under the first IDA educa-
tion project. Their enrollment has been disappointingly low at about 600.
The enrollment at the Bahr Dar Polytechnic is also below expectations at about
360 students. It is hoped that the programs of the institutes and the poly-
technics will be sufficiently improved and modified by the technical assistance
provided under the second IDA education project to make them more attractive
to students and more responsive to employers' demands. These schools need to



APPENDIX I
Page 6
develop closer relations with industry and to gear their training to employer
requirements.                                                       1
23..      There are two government schools in Addis Ababa which provide training
in commercia:t subjects. Their combined enrollments are 1,000 and courses run
three or four years, varying with the type of training. Intake is from secon-
dary schools at Grades 8, 9 and 10. Management education and training is
provided by the National University, College of Business Administration and by
the Institute of Public Administration.
24.       A number of vocational schools are administered by other Ministries;
examples are the intermediate level agriculture institutes by the M-inistry of
Agriculture, the nursing and dressers schools by the Ministrv of Public Healtlh,
the 'Ianagement Training Center and the National VTocational Training Center by
the Ministry of National Community Development and Social Affairs, and the
Institute of Public Administration by the Central Personnel Agency. Some
training is given by semi-government organizations such as the Telecommunica-
tions Board, the Flectric Lighlt: and Power Agency, the Highaway Authlority,
Ethiopian Airlines and by several private concerns.
25.       There is no national apprenticeship scheme but certain voluntary
agencies, in cooperation with employers, offer courses in various skills for
workers already in employment and operate trade centers in rural handicraft.
A recent development is the establishment of a lational Vocational Training
Center, under the Mfinistry of Mtational Communitv Development and Social Affairs.
This project received assistance from the 'UNqDP, with ILO as executing agencv,
foIr experts' services and equipment.  Tne Center gives accelerated courses for
skilled workers, and the Ethionian Federatioia of Employers participated in its
planning.
Agricultural Education
26.       Higher education in agriculture is given at the College of
Agriculture, National University, with about 550 places, in a four-year
post-secondary couirse towards a Bachelor's degree.  T'u'o Agricultural
Institutes at Jimma and Ambo and one Animal Health Institute at Debre
Zeit which operate under the MJinistrv of Agriculture provide a two-vear,
post-secondary course for middle-level technicians.  ror several years,
however, these institutes operateal at less than full capacity for lack of
recurrent financing to pay bursaries to the trainees.  Due to an urgent need
for a large number of agricultural technicians to implement its agricul-
tural development programs, the facilities of the agricultural institutes
are being expanded from 300 student places to 400 under the second ITIA
education project, and the Animal Hlealth Institute from 70 to 140 student
places under the third IDA education project.  The new Government has indi-
cated it would support these institutions to permit them to operate at full
capacity.
27.       For lower level agricultuiral wor'ers, courses are offered for
Grades 8 to 10 leavers as follows:



APPENDIX I
Page 7
(a) The Animal Health Department of the Ministry of Agriculture
conducts a 12'-week course for vaccinators, 6 weeks of which
is on-the-job training.
(b) Chilalo and Wolamo Agricultural Development IJnits (CADU and
WADU) each conduct 6-10 month training for agricultural
extension assistants primarily to meet the manpower require-
ments of the Extension and Project Implementation Department
(EPID) of the Ministry of Agriculture; a total of about 80
trainees are admitted per annum.
(c) In cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, the
Evangelical Church Mekani Yesus at Baku trains about 60
agricultural and home economics assistants each year.
28.       Three farmer training centers under the second IDA education project
and three additional under the third IDA education project with a total capa-
city of 240 are being established to meet additional manpower requirements of
the agricultural sector in accordance with the Government's Agricultural Deve-
lopment Programs. Outputs of these and other centers assisted as a part of
the Integrated Rural Development Programs, are in line with present estimates
of absorptive capacity under on-going and future development schemes.
University Education
29.       National University.  The University, officially founded in 1961,
is composed of eleven colleges and faculties, several institutes and centers,
a separate program for the freshman year, and an extension division. The
enrollment has at least doubled every five years since the first intake in
1959. In the academic year 1973-74, the enrollment was about 6,000 full-
time students on the three campuses.
Enrollment of Full-Time Students at National University /1
1972-1973
Agriculture                443       Public Health              248
Arts                       609       Social Work                 116
College of Business                  Science                    488
Administration          619        Technology                 481
Education                1,344       Theologa                     58
:edicine                  180        Freshman Year            1,200)
Law                        236
TOTAL                6,r,72
/1   Includes students under National Service.
In the last few years the University has altered its priorities and policies
so as to increase greatly the outout of teachers for senior secondarv schools.
A special selection process at Grade 11 guarantees an input of high quality,
and the output is 25-30% of all tlba degrees awarded.



APPENDIX I
Page 8
30.       The University has been under-financed and the rapid growth in
enrollment has not been accompanied by proportionate increases in appropria-
tions. External donors have helped greatly but in a few selected areas; this
type of support is decreasing. The cost per student/year is approximately
US$1,600 (US$1,200 from the Ethiopian government and US$400 from foreign
assistance). Students pay no fees, and their room and board (US$200 per
student/year) is one-sixth of the University appropriation. The introduc-
tion of a student loan scheme to recover part of the tuition and boarding
cost is under consideration.
31.       Ethiopians account for 61% of the University's Teaching staff.
MIany Ethiopians are following post-graduate courses overseas and will soon
become available and the University plans to Ethiopianize its staff by 1980
in most, if not all, disciplines. The University is housed in a variety of
buildings of which only two were built for academic purposes on the Addis Ababa
campus. Many premises are inadequate for their intended use.
32.       Growth on the Alemaya campus is the most important element of the
University's plan to regionalize. Plans for a second regional center are
being discussed for Gondar where the Public Health College is now located.
An 800-acre site has been selected and given by the local community to the
University.
33.       The University of Asmara.  The private University of Asmara was
established in 1958 and chartered in 1965. It is operated by the Piae
Mlatres de La Nigritiae of Verone (Italy) and assisted mainly by the Italian
Government. The University has now a total enrollment of 1,200, of whom
500 are in a "Preparatory College" (equivalent, more or less, to the last
year of secondary education). Of the 700 students in degree programs (Arts,
Science, Business Administration, Law, Economics, Architectural Engineering),
about 130 follow an Italian-oriented curriculum leading to degrees granted
by the University of Padua. The remaining 570, and most of those enrolled
in the "Preparatory College," follow a modified Anglo-American curricula.
Only 30 students are boarders and about 600 students pay tuition fees
(Eth$140 per student/year).
34.       In addition to its regular programs, the University of Asmara
arranges extension courses for people already in employment in cooperation
with the Asmara business community.
Non-Formal Education and Training
35.       Rural out-of-school education and training is carried on in
Ethiopia in a number of different programs sponsored by a variety of agencies,
both government and private. Although some of these programs have achieved
some success, a major problem is the lack of coordination between these
programs and frequent duplication of effort. The Unesco experimental work-
oriented literacy program has tried to overcome these problems and has formed
the basis for a new effort by the Ethiopian Government to decentralize and
coordinate the various training programs as part of an integrated approach
to rural development. The Ministry of Education has taken the main initiative



APPENDIX I
Page 9
in the development of the Work Oriented Adult Education Program (WOAEP), but
in consultation and cooperation with other government ministries and voluntary
agencies.
Farmer Training
36.       Several intensive agricultural development projects provide training
for farmers and their wives within limited geographical areas. They are all
administered as semi-autonomous units under the Ministry of Agriculture, with
the exception of SORADEP, 1/ which is administered by the Ministry of National
Community Development and Social Affairs. However, these projects have paid
relatively little attention to local leadership training and more general
human resource development.
37.       The Minimum Package Program (MPP) was launched in 1971 under the
direction of the Extension and Project Implementation Department (EPID) of the
Ministry of Agriculture. The intensive agricultural development projects were
too costly to permit replication on a national scale. The objective of the
MPP is to achieve the phased expansion of basic extension services, stressing
demonstration of selected agricultural innovations and inputs, to the entire
farming population of Ethiopia. The MPP includes development of cooperatives
for the purchase of inputs, home economics training for farmers' wives, animal
husbandry and soil and water management. Each 14FP area has about 10,000
farmers, along an all-weather road, served by 5 extension agents. Extension
is supported by demonstration plots on the land of selected "model" farmers.
From 1971 to 1974 the number of MPP areas increased from 9 to 48 and the
program now operates in all except one province. EPID plans to continue
expansion at the rate of 10 MPP areas each year during the Fourth Five Year
Plan.
Community Development and Leadership Training
38.       The Ministry of National Community Development and Social Affairs
(MNCD) provides training opportunities of several different types, including
home economics and craft training, agricultural and cooperative development
and training in community leadership and self-help activity. There are 61
Community Development Centers which provide support facilities for the
community development staff engaged in these activities. However, in 1973
the MNCD had sufficient recurrent funds to staff only 46 centers, each of
which had one District Development Officer and five village level workers,
including one female staff member.
39.       Community development staff receive a multi-purpose training course
designed to prepare them not only for teaching specific skills but also to
act as change agents through training and developing local leadership, mobil-
izing local resources for self-help, forming local development committees,
changing attitudes and introducing new ideas. However, their effectiveness
1/ Southern Region Agricultural Development Project.



APPENDIX I
Page 10
has been severely hampered by the lack of budgetary support, their isolation
from other Government development efforts, the over-ambitious objectives of
their assignments and the lack of coordination with other development agencies.
40.       Development of local leadership and self-help activities is one
area in which the community development program has developed useful experience
and knowledge and in which they could play an important role as part of the new
attempts of the Government to promote community participation in the planning
of rural development programs and in decentralized decision-making as part of
new forms of local government. Among African countries, Ethiopia is particularly
rich in the variety and extent of indigenous self-help associations, partly
due to its lack of a colonial past. Community development workers have attemp-
ted to use management committees formed from representatives of local ekubs and
idirs (indigenous associations) in initiating local development projects, some-
times basing these directly on the local organization. Some of these associ-
ations have also begun, on their own initiative, various economic ventures and
proto-cooperative forms of organization which have led to assistance, and also
control, by various ministries.
41.       In 1974 community development staff and agricultural extension staff
began a concerted attempt at full cooperation in the Ada agricultural develop-
ment project. While the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for spreading
the approved technical innovations to the farmers, the MNCD staff have been
given responsibility for organizing local leadership, community participation
in project planning and for assisting with self-help projects. In particular,
the stimulus to local participation has produced some valuable exchanges of
opinion and subsequent changes in project plans.
Adult Literacy Programs
42.       Until 1968 the main rural education activity of the Ministry of
Education was a traditional literacy campaign to teach adults reading and
writing in Amharic. This activity coexisted with the various literacy programs
and methods carried on by a host of religious groups and by the Ethiopian
Women's Welfare Association (EWWA). Some groups, such as EWWA, have tried to
link literacy training more closely to economic and social development objec-
tives. However, the aggregate effort of all these agencies forms only a very
small base of action. One major hindrance is the multiplicity of languages in
the country and the fact that Amharic, although officially the national language,
is spoken only by a minority. Many of those who do attain literacy lose it
again because of the lack of follow-up materials and of opportunities to apply
what they have learned in their daily lives.
43.       In 1968 Unesco launched an experimental work-oriented literacy
project in five selected areas of Ethiopia organized and evaluated by a unit
established within the Ministry of Education. The project terminated on
December 31, 1974. A major objective of the program was to bring about effec-
tive coordination between the Ministries of Education, Agriculture, Community
Development and the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism in linking



APPENDIX I
Page 11
literacy to specific development objectives appropriate to the environment
and opportunities of each area. This approach has encouraged more systematic
inter-ministerial coordination in other areas of rural training and has provided
the inspiration for the attempt to launch a coordinated WOAEP. However, the
literacy experiment was inhibited by its concentration on Amharic, even in non-
Amharic speaking areas. Furthermore, the high staff inputs in the experimental
literacy program make its future applicability difficult.
Religious Education for Pre-Adolescents
44.       Both the Orthodox Church and the Moslem community provide religious
education including literacy training for large numbers of pre-adolescents.
These numbers appear to be increasing and both patterns show strong trends of
modernization in teaching methods and in the instructional materials utilized.
Both the Koranic and Orthodox schools increasingly serve as a preparation for
entry to a government school or other educational institution. There are about
15,000 Ethiopian Orthodox Churches and the majority of them operate "Nebab Bet"
(House of Reading ") schools where children from the age 7 to 12 learn to read.
Enrollment is estimated at about 500,000. Instruction is carried out by priests
in church courtyards and buildings.
Ethiopian Orthodox Church Development Commission (EOCDC)
45.       EOCDC has established a training program for its clergy which aims
at providing them with rural development skills which they can transmit to
their parishioners. They are taught to make simple furniture, to construct
houses and bridges, improve agricultural productivity and encourage protection
from diseases. There are estimated to be over 100,000 priests in all provinces
of Ethiopia and the program has the potential for reaching the mass of the popu-
lation except in those areas which are predominantly Moslem. Two hundred
priests have already been trained by EOCDC and have returned to their communi-
ties where they are said to be influencing change and development. A further
90 are at present undergoing one year's training and with IDA assistance under
the third educational project this program will be expanded to 1,000 trainees
per annum in a six-month course. EOCDC has announced its intention to take an
active part in the 'Development through Cooperation" campaign launched by the
new government.
Mlission Training
46.       A number of missions are working in Ethiopia, mainly in the south-
ern and south-western areas, where Orthodox and Moslem influence is limited.
These missions have established a variety of training programs in literacy,
agriculture, health and crafts. They also train their own technical and
extension staff and are involved in the establishment of cooperatives,
agricultural settlement schemes, etc.
47.       There are at least 10 handicraft schools run by various missions
throughout Ethiopia. In general they provide boarding facilities and train



APPENDIX
Page 12
school leavers in a one or two-year course in the more common skills--
carpentry, masonry, metal work and auto-mechanics. Their principle objective
is to provide students with skills which will enable them to become self-
employed in the rural areas.
48.       The Wando-Genet School trains students in a one-year course in
both agriculture and handicrafts. Their experience has been that about 85%
of the students return to farm their own land or join settlement schemes.
One possible reason for this success is that the students have only 4 years
of primary education. They are also carefully selected and most have land
to return to.
49.       However, many of the mission schools are not achieving this
objective because the students are selected at a higher educational level,
they work with machine tools in relatively sophisticated surroundings and
do not learn skills which can readily be transferred to the village. The
missions are concerned about this problem and are anxious to re-orient their
training more towards intermediate technology and the training needs of the
rural areas in which they are situated. Their resources should therefore
be used to complement the WOAEP being developed under the MOE.
Training for Rural Craftsmen
50.       Up to the present, the Government has done little to develop rural
crafts and cottage industries. However, the Ministry of Industry, Commerce
and Tourism recently established a Small-Scale, Handicraft and Cottage
Industries Division which has prepared a draft plan for the development of
small-scale and cottage industries. Unido 1/ will provide technical assistance
to survey existing craftsmen, to develop a number of major crafts in rural
areas and to provide counterpart training. The plan for cottage industries
includes assistance with marketing, the provision of loan facilities and
the organization of cluster training centers for artisans in rural areas.
The program of training for craftsmen would be coordinated with the programs
of the proposed Community Skills Training Centers (para. 4.14-4.18 main
report).
Education Finance
51.       General.  As education and training in Ethiopia is offered by a
variety of agencies, government and private, its financial sources are also
varied. It is financed by the Central Government, semi-government agencies,
churches, and private organizations. No recent data on total public and
private expenditure on education are available. However, it is estimated
that more than two-thirds of total education expenditure is financed by
the Central Government; of these funds about 80% are channelled through the
M4inistry of Education and the remaining through the National University, the
Ministries of Agriculture, Public Health, and Commerce, Industry and Tourism,
1/   United Nations Industrial Development Organization.



APPENDIX I
Page 13
and the Institute of Public Administration. Public education is free of
tuition. Students pay only for textbooks and stationery.
52.       Total Expenditure.  Total public expenditure on education in
1973-74 is estimated as follows (in Eth$ million):
Domestic   Financing  Foreign   Assistance           Total
Recurrent   Capital  Recurrent   Capital    Recurrent Capital
Ministry of Education      92.0         8.0       10.1       10.9       102.1      18.9
National University        16.0         1.6        5.0        3.5        21.0       5.1
Other Ministries            3.5         1.0        0.7          -         4.2       1.0
Total                     111.5        10.6       15.8       14.4       127.3      25.0
The public expenditure on education is estimated at about 3% of GDP.  About
16% of the education expenditure depends upon foreign assistance, but the data
concerning foreign assistance are inflated by the high costs of expatriate
specialists who represent a large proportion of such assistance.
53.       Recurrent Expenditure.  During the 1969-70 and 1973-74 period, the
domestically financed recurrent expenditure of the government increased at a
rate of 7.5% p.a., while the same expenditure on education grew at a faster
rate of 12.0% p.a. Thus, the share cf the domestically financed education
expenditure increased from 17.5% to 20.6% over the period. The actual and
projected percentage breakdown of recurrent expenditure by level and type of
education is as follows:
1969-70   1973-74   1978-79
Basic Education
- primary, non-formal, mass media                  37.2%     43.5%      47.8%
Secondary Education                                  18.5       29.4      24.7
Vocational/Technical Education                        4.5        3.5       2.0
Teacher Training                                      3.6        4.2       5.4
National University                                  19.3       14.2      11.7
Others
- Administration, scholarship,
assistance to non-government schools,
cultural services, etc.                          16.9       5.2        8.4
100.0%    100.0%    100.0%
The major proportion, 75% to 87%, has been absorbed by basic, secondary and
higher education. During the 1969-70 and 1973-74 period the secondary educa-
tion share grew faster than others, by 54%, while the share of the University



APPENDIX I
Page 14
declined by about 26%. A significant future trend is the rising proportion of
basic education and a declining percentage of expenditure for secondary
education.
54.       The percentage of recurrent expenditure of the MOE spent for
salaries and allowances 1/ are shown below by level and type of education:
Primary Education               95%        Non-formal Education       53%
Mass Media                      59%        Jr. Secondary Education  96%
Senior Secondary Education    88%          Voc./Tech. Education       80%
Teacher Training                56%
The recurrent expenditures per student for primary, junior and senior secon-
dary education are Eth$68, 144 and 271 respectively.  The unit cost for senior
secondary education is expected to decline from Eth$271 to 240 by 1978-79 due
to the increasing application of the double shift system while retaining the
present statutory teaching load per teacher.
55.       Capital Expenditure.  The Government has no comprehensive records of
capital expenditure. From 1969-70 to 1973-74, domestically financed government
capital expenditure on education was about Eth$35 million. Foreign assistance
to capital expenditure is estimated at about Eth$50 million for the same period.
The share of foreign assistance in total capital expenditure on education was
about 60%.
56.       Capital expenditure of the Ministry of Education and the National
University has been as follows (in Eth. $ million).
1969-70                1973-74
Domestic   Foreign    Domestic   Foreign
1.   Government                              43.7        62.4       99.5        80.0
2.   Ministry of Education                    4.8         6.8         8.0        10.9
3.   National University                      0.4           -         1.6         3.5
4.   (2 + 3) as % of 1                       11.8        10.8         9.6       18.0
During the 1969-70 and 1973-74 period, capital expenditure for the MOE and the
NUT as the percentage of the total government domestically financed capital
expenditure declined from 11.8% to 9.6%, but their share of foreign assistance
increased from 10.8% to 18.0%.
1/   Allowances are a small portion of the expenditure.  They are mainly
given to principals and directors in terms of housing and automobiles.
Teachers assigned to a remote area are provided a hardship allowance.



APPENDIX I
Page 15
57.       Future Expenditure.  If Ethiopia expands her public education for the
next ten years at the annual average rate of 17% for primary education, 6% for
Junior secondary education, and 5% for senior secondary education, the Government
will have to increase its appropriation to the MOE at a rate of about 10% p.a.
The Ministry's estimated expenditure of Eth$ 92 million in 1973-74 will rise
to Eth$284 inillion in ten years. However, present capital funds available or
likely to become available, will restrict expansion to less than 2% p.a. for
secondary education which in turn will reduce recurrent expenditure of the MOE
under the 10% p.a. as noted above. Similarly, if the University enrollment ex-
pands at a rate of about 8%, its recurrent expenditure will have to grow at a
rate of about 5% p.a. If Government domestically financed expenditure increases
at an assumed rate of about 7.5% for the next decade, the shares of the MOE and
the University would increase from 20.6% to 22.4% in five years and to 25.0%
in ten years. This accords with the financial analysis carried out as a part
of the ESR.



APPENDIX II
Awraja Administration and Community Skill Training
Introduction
1.        The establishment of an effective and integrated administrative
structure at the awraja level is seen as a necessary prerequisite to the
successful planning and implementation of all rural training and develop-
ment activity. Local coordination of administrative effort is essential
to provide more efficient management, to develop training which is relevant
to local development needs, to facilitate feedback and evaluation and to
maximize efficient use of scarce resources.
Awraja Rural Development Centers (ARDCs)
2.        The ARDC has been planned as the major focal point for the inte-
gration of development effort in Ethiopia. The awraja administrator is
expected to become a powerful factor in promoting schemes for joint train-
ing and multi-purpose training of development personnel in both pre-service
and in-service programs. Coordination would be a major responsibility of
the Awraja Council under the chairmanship of the awraja administrator.
Cooperation between development sectors, programs and agents would take the
following forms:
(a) participation in joint planning and implementation;
(b) development of common reporting systems and the
sharing of information;
(c) organization of working groups for project prepara-
tion and implementation;
(d) team work in the field and joint supervision; and
(e) use of common services and facilities.
3.        Organization (Annex 1 to Appendix II)
The awraja has been chosen as the level at which to integrate
government services because:
(a) the province was considered too large and its staff
too remote from the rural population; and
(b) at the wereda level government ministries and agen-
cies do not yet have effective representation.



APPENDIX II
Page 2
4.        The awraja administration will have primary local responsibility
for primary and adult education, public health, public works, water supply,
agriculture and community development and trade and commerce.
5.        The Awraja Council will be popularly elected from the weredas for
a period of 4 years and each council will have between 25 and 40 members,
depending on the total awraja population.
6.        The Ministry of the Interior has responsibility for the appoint-
ment of the administrator, the organization of training for awraja staff
and the general supervision of the awraja administrative plan.
7.        Awraja technical staff, although appointed by the various minis-
tries, will be paid by the awraja administration and will be directly under
the authority of the awraja administrator. They will be responsible for:
(a) advising the Council within their fields of
activities;
(b) implementing the decisions of the Council and coor-
dinating awraja activities with the national or re-
gional programs adopted by the competent authorities; and
(c) preparing and accounting for the execution of the
budget. The administrative staff will include a
qualified secretary and accountant to assist with
the work of the Council.
8.        The annual budget will be prepared by the awraja administrator and
hiis staff and submitted to the Council for approval. Grants-in-aid may be
provided for the awraja administrations in the budget of the Central Govern-
ment.
Community Skill Training Centers (CSTCs)
9.        Objectives
The CSTCs would form a part of the broader Work Oriented Adult
Education Program (WOAEP) which has the following objectives:
(a) to design and organize an effective education
delivery system for education and training pro-
grams in rural areas;
(b) to integrate effectively a variety of training
programs with each other and with other develop-
ment inputs and activities;



APPENDIX II
Page 3
(c) to formulate and implement training programs based
on a variety of local needs in different areas and
responsive to local priorities;
(d) to make effective use of existing human and physical
resources in promoting rural development; and
(e) to contribute to rural development by introducing
better organization modes and by promoting change
in a variety of knowledge, skills and attitudes.
10.       WOAEP Pilot Phase
In 1974 planning was begun, with bilateral assistance from USAID,
for the introduction and evaluation of the WOAEP in six selected areas.
W4orkshops were held in February and May 1974 to develop training strategies
and planning procedures for the six areas which were identified within the
awrajas of Chebo and Gurage, Kefa, Tegulet and Bulga, Bahr Dar, Chilalo and
Jijiga. Each of these awrajas has also been selected for the first phase
of the implementation of awraja self-administration (Annex 2 to Appendix II).
The strategies and procedures developed will provide the basis for the ex-
pansion from the pilot phase to additional areas. Each program is based in
a wereda with an average population of about 50,000. The Government intends
to introduce the WOAEP into all 581 weredas by 1980.
11.       An important aspect of the workshops and selection of areas was
the participation and cooperation of a variety of agencies and groups. The
workshops were planned by an 'ad hoc' inter-ministerial committee which in-
cluded the Ministries of Education, Agriculture, Health and Community De-
velopment. In addition to central government representatives, representa-
tives from missions, the Orthodox Church and other voluntary agencies at-
tended the workshops.
12.       The selection of WOAEP areas involved discussions, not only with
awraja government personnel, but also with representatives of the Teachers
Union, Orthodox Church and local population. This was one of the first
times that the local community had an opportunity to express its views
about Government services and about the kinds of development priorities it
held. With UNICEF assistance an experimental dialogue between members of
the community of Ghion and staff of the Ministry of Education was recorded
on videotape. This was replayed to the villagers. It was also shown to
officials of the awraja and central Government, including the Minister of
Education. In November 1974 a UNICEF consultant proposed to UNICEF a five
year program of assistance to Ethiopia for an experiment in the use of
videotape by the Mass Media Center of MOE as part of the development of
W4OAEP and other rural development programs. This proposal is under consi-
deration by UNICEF.
13.       Programs are to be launched in the six pilot weredas early in
1975 and to be evaluated during a one-year period with USAID assistance.



APPENDIX II
Page 4
On the basis of this evaluation and the experience gained during the pilot
phase, the MIOE plans to expand the program to approximately 100 other
weredas during the project implementation period. This is a reasonable
target if there is no delay in completing the pilot phase.
14.       Demography and Enrollment
Each Community Skill Training Center would serve the population
of a wereda which has an estimated average population of 50,000 and an
average area of about 800 square miles. Thus most of the population would
be within walking distance of the CSTC.
15.       The principal target group for the CSTC would be rural craftsmen.
One study 1/ has estimated that 6 percent of the Ethiopian population is
engaged full or part-time in traditional crafts (an additional number are
employed in more modern skills such as carpentry and tailoring) (Annex 3 to
Appendix II). Or. this basis, the average wereda would have 3,000 tradi-
tional craftsmen. In addition each CSTC would provide skill training for
selected adolescents. The target age group for training is approximately
12 to 40.
16.       Courses would vary in length and content, but each CSTC would
have the capacity to train about 100 participants in a variety of short
courses each year.
17.       Curriculum
Specific courses and programs are being developed for the pilot phase
and details are not yet available. Courses would vary according to the needs
of each area.  However, skill training courses would be three main types:
(a) upgrading of adult craftsmen;
(b) initial skill training of adolescents
for self employment; and
(c) general skill training linked to specific
rural public work projects.
18.       Craftsman training would be closely linked to:
(a) the plan of the Ministry of Industry Commerce
and Tourism for development of cottage crafts
and small-scale industry; and
1/   David Karsten, The Economics of Handicrafts in Traditional Societies
(Munchen: West Germany forum Verlag, 1972).



APPENDIX II
Page 5
(b) developments in intermediate technology, which
would be monitored and disseminated by the
Intermediate Technology Centre within the MOE.
19.       Following successful completion of their training, craftsmen and
adolescents would be provided with appropriate additional tools or sets
of basic hand tools to assist their skill development and further self-
employment.
20.       Instructors
Crafts instructors would be selected village craftsmen who will
receive training and reimbursement of up to Eth. $30 per month, following
the procedure of the Unesco experimental literacy project.
Instructors would be trained in new designs and skills by the
existing craft instructors in the numerous missions and Government handi-
craft and trade schools and workshops.
21.       Administration
The overall planning and coordination of WOAEP would be the re-
sponsibilitv of an Inter-Ministerial Technical Committee which should in-
clude representatives from the Ministries of Education, Agriculture, Health
Industry, Interior, Community Development and from the Elementary School
Building Unit (ESBU).
22.       The detailed identification of needs and planning of programs
will be done at the awraja level by the development staff in consultation
with the Council and the community. The Community Development Officer would
act as secratary to the development staff committee to link decision-making
to community leadership, organization of self-help, etc. The awraja admin-
istrator would be responsible for coordinating the work of development
staff and establishing the necessary linkages with non-government agencies.
The awraja Council would be responsible for approving the budget for the
actual financing of the programs.
23.       The District Education Officer would be responsible for the tech-
nical supervision of the Community Skill Training Centers including the
maintenance of buildings and equipment and the distribution of materials.
24.       Evaluation
As part of the pilot phase, a plan for formative evaluation is
being developed by the Evaluation Unit of the MOE with technical assistance
from USAID (Annex 4 to Appendix II). The evaluation has three main objec-
tives:



APPENDIX II
Page 6
(a) to evaluate the effectiveness of WOAEP as an
education delivery system;
(b) to assess the contribution of WOAEP to develop-
ment through the measurement of change in know-
ledge, attitudes and skills; and
(c) through formative evaluation to provide feedback
to program planners.
25.       Baseline studies have been initiated and evaluation questionnaires
prepared by the Evaluation Unit for the use of awraja staff. The MOE in-
tends to cooperate with the Institute of Development Research of the Uni-
versity in the overall evaluation. Completed evaluation reports would be
sent to the Bank Group for comment.



ANNET 1
to Appendix II
ADMINISTRATIVE PLAN
FOR AWRAJA SELF-ADMINISTRATION
Inter-ministerial Committee
- M. of Agriculture           M. of Interior        M. of Public Works-
-  -    14M. of Education                                 M. of Industry and  _  _
of Community Devt.                                  Commerce
 - - - - -Awraja Staff          Awraja Administrator        Awraja Staff- - - - -
v                          I 
I                          I
I                          I
Awraja Council
I                                                 I
I                                                 I
-  -  -  -  - Wereda Devt. Committee -  -  -
I                                                 I
I                                                 t
-  -  -  -  - Village Devt. Committee-
Principle line of authority
- - - - - - - - - -  Secondary line of authority



ANNEX 2
to Appendix II
Awrajas Selected for Self-Administration
Province                              Awraia
Arusi                              1.  Chilalo 1
Bale                              2.  El Kere
3. Genale
Begemder                           4.  Gondar
5. Wegera
Eritrea                           6.  Gash & Setit
7. Seraye
Gemu-Gofa                          8.  Geleb & Hamer Baco
9. Gemu
Gojjam                           10.  Bahr Dar i
Harrar                           11.  Harer Zuria
12. Jijiga L/
Ilubabor                         13.  Buno Bedele
14. Gambela
Kaffa                            15.  Kefa -/
Shoa                             16.  Chebo & Gurage 1/
17.  Tegulet & Bulga!!
Sidamo                           18.  Borena
19. Wolamo
Tigre                            20.  Shire
Wollega                          21.  Asosa & Beni Shangul
22. Gimbie
Wollo                            23.  Ambassel
24. Awsa
t/ AwraJas selected for WAEP pilot phase.



Distribution of Selected Crafts in Selected Areas of Ethopia
L40o. Cox pO 0>  No. & % of           Nu. & % of         No .&  % of        Nu. & p v
No. of        Potter            Tanner               Weaver            Blackwinith          Crafts
Households    Households         Households          Households          Households        Households
Sidama    172,000    2,620      1.5      1,400    0.8         600     0.35     1,385     0.8      6,005     3.45
Wolamo     108,000    1,195      1.1        433     0.4     4,780      4-5        910     0.85    7,318     6.85
Gamu        74,ooo       530    0.7         307    0.4      5,800      7.9        506     0.7    7,143      9.7
Derassa     68,000       -        -         -        -      2,920     4.3        770      1.1     3,690    5.4
Amarro      22,000      275      1.25       144    0.65       572      2.6        185     0.8     1,176     5.3
Konso       9,600        44    0.5          78    0.8         343    3.6           70    0.7        535     5.6
Gugi        26,400       179     0.7        -        -         -                  180     0.7       359     1.4
Borana       7,000       37     0.5         -        -         -        -          16     0.2        53     0.7
Source: David Karsten, The Economics of Handicrafts in Traditional Societies (1972).
0
H
H
..-H



WOAEP Planning and Evaluation Process
Local                              Awraja                              National
A. Identification    Discussion of practical    hvaluation of community proposals           Provision of policy outlines
of Needs          projects with village       by Awraja staff and identification        and guidelines.
council or other corm-     of training comaponent.
munity institution.
B.  Research          Baseline surveys by         Awraja staff to assist research by:       Working group to design base-
Needs             WCOAEP team.                                                          line survey and provide:
a) providing existing data
b) facilitating field work               a) conceptual framework
c) participating in baseline survey      b) design of questionnaire
c) training in procedures
C. Identification    Baseline surveys to          Identification of technical back-         Identification of personnel,
of Resources      identify leadership,        up, logistical, material and              materials, domestic funds,
organization, project      administrative support.                   external assistance, technical
implementation ex-                                                   backup and logistic support.
perience, hunan,
material and financial
resources and existing
infrastructures.
D.  Planning           Implement baseline         Arrange local project identifi-           Prepare national plan and policy
Procedures        survey.  Explain pro-       cation, relate it to other rural          framework and establish Inter-
grams to local leaders      development ccnpcnents and input         Ministerial coordination.
and invite partici-        resources and prepare program
pation.                     implementation schedule.
E.  Evaluation        Establish community         Operational evaluation of awraja          a) pre-planning activity             ci-
a) Objectives     reactln_  cnntrltiot.r,    staff and self-administration             b) operational efficiency
of project to local         structure; impact of project             c) linkages with other ministries  I!
development and eval-       or. awraja developnent.                     & agencies                        CD
uate operational pro-                                                d) inpact on national objectives
cedures.                                                             e) replication



Local                           Awraja                                National
E.  Evaluation        1. Baseline survey teams   1. Awraja Development Committees          1. Ministry of Education
b) Resources      2. Progress reports         2. Second and third-level                   Evaluation Unit
educational institutions              2. University Institute for
3. Progress reports                         Research Studies
3. USAID
c) Procedures     Operational reporting       Organization and reporting of            Design and analysis-
and feedback.              analysis.                                 Establish reporting procedures.
Facilitate evaluation studies.
a,o |
IQ
(D
H
H-



ANNEX I
COMIPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
Africa
Public                                                                                                                                   nna
Education       I of GNP                                                                      %         Sanuadacy         Higher         Output
GNP/Capita    Literacy    Expenditures  Devted to   7. of Total                                                         Secon.dary     Student        Entailment   iron Higher
population   at market           Rato         Per Capita   Educa.tion         Public        Primary       Primary      Se-oda.ry       Enrollment         per            in           Educa.tion
ac ..try               Yeer                       pri..o        (% of          (Market          (Public     Empenditutea  Enrollmet  Studeuta            colu               in          Teacher        Agriculture        per
(Mlillioc.)      (UDI)         Adultu)         Pri-n        Enpendi-       Devoted to        Eatie         per           Ratio         Voca.tional    (full-tine         and           100,000
00$)        torco only)  Educa.tion           Net        Teac.her         Net           Ocboulu       equivelInt)  Engineering   Population
(1)           (2)            (3)             (4)             (3)            (6)            (7)           (8)           (9)            (10)            (11)           (12)            (13)
Co.p.ti-    .-ti. d..  t.---fl i~        1. Algeria              71         16.2 H           430 H         25 B           34 F            9.0 F          20.8 p          64            40            13             18               26              6               22
the ev-lctioc of v-ioco adoation                       2, . eo.ro.             70          6.0 H           200 H         ...             6              3.0            20.0            74            48             6             23              25               4               7
oystacu and the  -olycic of -latl-cstag-s
oud-acotlcl de..alopoect bet-os  macon               3. C. A. R.             70         1.6 U            160 H         ...             3             4.0            20.0             73 X          64             4XN           18              30
c-otrie-   Uo-v-c, at the bocic of the
preset data, -c....-.otia-I tamp-ri-c                  4. Gh.d                 70          3.90             SIR0          7              30             4.3 N          14.31D          33            72             2              5              30
ohanId ho approachehd uiah Eret caciSac.
Date presetted to the  olwn  table hov                 3. Congo (0)            70          1.1 R           300 0         55 7           14              5.8            23.2            50 N          59            13             15              26
been collected 1-gooly by tbe loch niuci-
tra  iev---ot  --oce; the  -eminderac                  6. Dahony               12          2.08l    110    P1                             6i 3           .0 2          28.85           320           46             1 0            3              29....
steff o-tiatec or data Item U-oc.
Efforts hate hero nude to otad-rdice                   7. Ethiopim             72         25.9              10            7              9              2.6            20.0            17            51             5              3               33             10               4
de.ilniti-n  and, within unts   to ahech
the arcar...cy at the data.  Ocerhlc                      Gabon                73         0.5 U            555 E         ...            33              5.0            22.0            ...           46 G          20H5           13 H            21 RH.                           .
such datb  ar  still inp-riet ic cav..r-l
repoato and the loch ic  -kerIc  to                    9. Gheca                70          9.1 H           300 R          .             13              4.7            21.7 Q          74            29             6              4               18             15 E            13 E
improve then progr-coi-ly en the aecasloc-
of ito upe-ritf-n   wok.  Ic sha ace at               10. Ivory Enact          68          0.4 H           340 0l         9 A           10              4.2 C          20.4            44            46             6              5              23
thn  dae,th  taunting qp-a1fi-otia-
shoul  be bIain mind:                                11. Keuya                 73        12.1 H           170 H         33             11.3            6.4            71.0            77            34            14               3              23             15 
1)  "Educa.tice" as defi_ed  a rho teble           12. Los-tha               73         0.9 H             90 H        40               4.1           4,7            22.0            65            45              5              1              22              0.1              0.04
fermol ned  a-cea;13. Liberia                                                  71          1.6 H           350 H        15               5              3.7            11.7            30 X          31            12x0            6              16              12 C             9 C
2)  corinay:,  -dotien reert  educ-                14. Mmli                  72         5.2               60          10              3              4.6 N          32.3            15            40              4              6              17             36                5
lien ot the finu  ledI-   and "ceceo du-y" edo-
cater criers ta all  tdtu   0ch.b                     15. Mac-itacia           70          1.2 H           100 0T        tO              2              4.5            21.0            13 N          22             3             13              24              15..
-ecodary level r-g-dleuc ef tyPo  e..
geeal _ehnicl _   gitltr)                       16. Mau-iti-             72          0.8             300           50             12              3.7            11.7            86            31            31               2              30             29              60.
3)  "Vec-tioc..l"  doc-tioc (Ccl. 10)              17. Mocreoce              70        15.8 H           270 H         20               9             4.1 N          17.4             54            35            12              3              22              3                7 A
Inludes cerem-ta ini  echnical, ca-
e__ial, agr i-It-rel. -a-tina   an I.d                if. Nilerla              71         69.0 H           130 H          .              3              3.2 H          ...             34 X          37             4             i8               23             16                6
19. Ruonda               73         4.0 H             60 H        23               2 H           3.2 H          28.0 H           32 X          51             2              6              13              ...              3
4)  "Liter-y retro" (Eel. 3)  ter  -suo-
ly obtained iron --toy  -o-a-e.  In conY              20. Senegal              71         4.0 H            260 R         10             11 P           4.0 N           25.1 H          38 X          46            11x Na                         25               2 C            12
cocotri-s they arc eniyapp-aoieatio- -cd
it is d_achtfa1 thur any  ci fern deficitian          21. Si-rr  L.o.n         68         2.7 II           190 H        27               4              3.0            19.3 C          32            31            13              7 C            25              22               9 H
at "literate" has hb- fci11-d cons~iste-t
ly;                                                   22. San..dia             73          2.9 H            50 H1         5              2              . ..            7.0            13            32             3             iS              16              02               3
5)  "Public  -cp-ditre icred-eticn"                23. Sadee                 73        16.5 H           1200H         15               6             4.5            13.2             38           45              9              3              20             17               23
(Cola1. 4 -rd 6) -oir-  to all capitol ad
r-rerrt  -ap-aditur-n dem-tod to educ-                24. Ou-ileod             72          0.4             260           28             18              4.3 P          19.7            85            36            16              4              20               0               0.03
ti- b   p~bi, -    1...-p.bi~ ~-i-;     73. Tacrail               72        13.6             120           49              3              3.8            15.9            35            38              2             25              21 
6)  "re otrai-e" (Cole. 7 and 9)
re ferEe achel y-c  and mee  the pferror-             26. Uganda               70        10.40H            15091         25 A            6              5.20 N         04.34Q          46 EU         36             4 u           11              21              10               5
tago of eligible rhild-c  -orllod toll-
time in the apprapr~iato  -ch-ol  poblic aed          27. Uppoc Volta          72          3.6              70            5              2             4.0             27.6            10            45             2              5              23               6                1
pei-ote by Iead. They etc ft.. oubjo-t
so a wide margie cf errr ic the develop-              28. Zaire                70        19.1 H            100 H         13              8              3.7 N5         19.0 C          78            44             8             20               24             10                2 N
tog coutries. eing te m-rietia.. in tho                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
accuracy at ba_ic data (i.. age-specific              28. lambia               71         4.5 U1           380 H        43FP            22              5.6            17.4            89 N          55            12              1               1772
pupelotiem and eE-lrt).           1culme-t
figurco freqoent1y are higher thoc the
numbe  o f  od-ots aet-ally in e-hnel.
Ov-reged students  hee  i-Neljui   is
indictetd by f-t-nt-e also can icfleto
rho r-tio.
Symbols:    D. Utno--vilcblo                                             Nlotca:   A     1963 or before            N=  Emrremt pric-o                                                               Sour.ee:  Cnlusan  (1) amd (2)                  World Sack Atlas
- Magnitude nil -r negligible                                      S     1966                      N-  GDCP
I   Magoitada less than belt of -cit emplc3rd                         C=  1967                       p  -  Occluding forign aid                                                                   Column   (3)- (9) and (11)          IBRD Hisalona
O   Qacu.tlace.ble                                                    D     1968                     Q  =Central gco-rsmet only
E     1969                     U      Public only                                                                          Colons  (10)- (12) and (13)!  Un.c   StatiaticalI Yeabook
F     1970                     V      I Occlding private e-penditre                                                                                             and/or IBRD SSiueia
G     1971                     N  -Ilecldiog o-eaged  trudenta
H  =1972                       V      Unesco ucorce.
march 1975






ETHIOPIA - FOURTH EDIJCATION PROJECT
_EOUTRIIINTS FOR AND SUPPLY OF GOVERNMENT PRIMARY & SEOONDARY
SCHOOL TEACRERS
Primary Education                   3/                    Junior Secon,darESi ent                                                           c r    dUc
Enrollments- Teachers    Teachers  7, of Qualified            Enrollm.ents         Teachers      Teachers      'i. of Qualified           Enrollncets         Teachers      Teachers         % of Qualified
(000)      Required 2t Supplied  Ethfopian teachers           (000)            Required      Supplied          Ethiopian  -             (30o)             Required      Supplied            Ethiopian
Available                                                          Teachers Available                                 _                        Teachers Available
1973/74             645         12,9010       2,700           83.1                 85                2490           430                 33.3                  76                2530           210                  34.4
89               2620           440                 48.5                  80                2670           230                  39.0
1974/75             766         15,300        3,000           85.7
94               2770           450                 59.6                  84                2800           430                  43.6
1975/76             905         18,100        4,100            86.9
99               2910           450                 69.4                  88                2930           380                  54.3
1976/77           1,041         20,800        4,100            90.6
104               3060           450                 77.5                  93                3100           430                  61.0
1977/78           1,208         24,200        4,600            92.5
111               3270           580                 82.6                  98                3270           510                  68.2
1978/79           1,405         28,100        5,200            91.9
118               3470           580                 90.5                 104                3470           550                  75.8
1979/80           1,645         32,900        6,800            89.8
1980/81           1,921         38,4010       6,800            88.4                125               3680            580                96.7                 110                3670           590                  83.1
133               3910           580                101.3                 115                3830           630                  91.1
19817182          2,241         44.800        6,800            88.7
141               4150           580                104.6                 121                4030           680                  98,0
1982/83           2,634         52,700        6,800            86.1
149               4380           580                107.3                 128                4270           720                 103.7
1983/84           3,116         62,300        6,900            81.5
1/   Primary school enrollment expansion is based on the originally expected expansion of school
facilities by the Ministry of Education. Secondary school enrollments are calculated on the
basis of the 5.9) and 5.37. of Jr. and Sr. secondary enrollment -.?ansion rates p.a.
2/   Teacher requirements are derived from teacher/pupil ratios of 1:50 for primary, 1-34 for junior
secondary aod 1:30 for senior secondary education.
3/   The number of teachers available was calculated taking into account the attrition rates, i.e.,
37. among primary, 5% among secondary school teachers.
Sources: Ministry of Education, Bank Group Staff.



ETHIOPIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
MANPOWER STOCK AND REQUIREMENTS FOR THE
NON-AGRICULTURAL SECTOR BY OCCUPATION
('000)
1973/74             1974/75 - 1978/79              1978/79             1979/80 - 1983/84                 1983/84
Stock   Requirements   Attrition  /_Total Req.   Stock   Requirements    Attrition   Total Req.    Stock
Professional, Tech.
& Related Workers 2/               55.5        10.6            8.3         18.9         66.1      10.9             9.9          20.8         77.0
Admin. & Managerial
Workers                            28.0         6.7            4.2         10.9         34.7       6.2              5.2         114         40.9
Clerical & Related Workers         51.3        10.3            7.7         18.0        61.6       10.5              9.3         19.8         72.1
Sales Workers                      13.2         3.0            1.9          4.9         16.2       3.0              2.4          5.4         19.2
Services Workers                  598.4       112.9           89.7        202.6        711.3     116.7            106.7        223.4        828.0
Agric. & Animal
Husbandry Workers                  17.1         3.8            2.6          6.4         20.9        3.8             3.1          6.9         24.7
Production Workers:
Transport Equipment
Operators; Laborers               761.5       185.7          114.2        299.9        947.2      175.9           142.0        317.9       1123.1
Total                            1525.0       333.0          228.6        561.6       1858.0     327.0            278.6        605.6       2185.0
1/       3 % was assumed throughout the period between 1974/75 - 1983/84.
2/       Primary and secondary school teachers are excluded.
Sources: Ministry of Planning & Development; Ministry of National Community Development & Social Affairs; Bank Group estimate.



ETHIOPIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
MANPOWER STOCK REQUIREMENTS AND SUPPLY FOR THE
NON-AGRICULTURAL SECTOR BY OCCUPATION AND EDUCATION
(1973 - 1984)
Prof. Tech.  Admin. &       Clerical                         Agricultural &    Production Workers:
& Related    Managerial   & Related  Sales    Service    Animal Husbandry  Transport Equipment
Workers       Workers       Workers    Workers  Workers    Workers               Operators:  Laborers    Total
A.  Employment By Occupation, 1973 - 84
1.  Stock, 1973/74                     56,000        28,000        51,000      13,000   598,000          17,000               762,000             1,525,000
2.  Stock, 1983/84         1/          77,000        41,000        72,000      19,000   828,000          25,000             1,123,000             2,185,000
3.  Requirements, 1973/74
- 1983/84                          21,000        13,000        21,000       6,000   230,000           8,000               361,000               660,000
B.  Additional Employment By Occupation and Educational Background, 1973 - 84
1.  Post-Secondary                     14,000         6,000           -          -           -              -                     -                  20,000
2.  Senior Secondary                   23,000        16,000        15,000       1,000    15,000            -                    9,000                79,000
3.  Junior Secondary                    3,000           -           19,000      3,000   108,000           2,000               109,000               244,000
4.  Primary & Below                       -             -            4,000       6,000   303,000          11,000              500,000               924,000
5.  Total                              40,000         22,000       38,000      10,000   426,000          13,000               618,000             1,267,000
C.  Requirements and Supply of Educational Output, 1973 - 84
Post-Secondary           Senior Secondary    Junior Secondary
1.  Requirements for:
a)  Labor Market                   20,000                      79,000                244,000
b)  Higher Education Level          2,000                      97,000                356,000
c)  Total                          22,000                     176,000                600,000
2.  Supply 2/                          20,000                     184,000                642,000
3.  Balance                           (-)2,000                    (+)8,000             (+)42,000
1/ Includes a 3 % attrition rate.
2/  The supply figures bf public Jr. and Sr. secondary schools are based on the annual expansion rates
of 5.9% and 5.3% respectively.  However, it is unlikely that the Government can obtain the necessary
capital funds to expand secondary school enrollments at this rate.  Adjusted for labor market participation                                               I
rates, i.e., 100% for post secondary, 90% for secondary, 80% for primary school leavers.
Sources: Ministry of Planning & Development, Ministry of National Community Development & Social Affairs, Ministry of Education,
Bank Group staff estimates.



ANNiEX 5
ETHIOPIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Enrollment, School Age Population and Participation Rates
Primary Schools by Province (1971-72)
No. of        Total          No. of 7-11 L         Participation
Province         Schools     Enrollment        Age Group                 Rate
Arusi              53         30,746            134,600                 22.8%
Bale               39         12,046            164I,000                 7.3
Begemder           96         29,584            213,IO0                 13.8
Eritrea           164         88,292            303,40o                 29.1
Gemu-Gofa          4o         12,734            110,400                 11.5
Gojjam             72         29,225            275,200                 10.6
Harrar             81          39,,445          529,100                  704
Illubabor          62         20,743            109,h00                 18.9
Kaffa              48         20,607            203,000                 10.1
Shoa              215        109,393            702,200                 15.5
Addis Ababa (Zone) 32          92,849           132,800                 69.9
Sidamo             63         40,778            391,000                 10.4
Tigre              72         30,077            288,300                 10.4
Wollega            78         66,979            200,h00                 33.4
Wollo              75         31,326            388,800                  8.0
Total      1,190        65h,824          1,146,000                 15.7
L1 All figures are estimates based on the 1966 Census.
Source:  School Census for Ethiopia 1969/70-1972/73.



ETHIOPIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJEBT
Enrollment, School-Ag~e-Population and Participation Rates
1972-1973
Junior Secondary Schools                      Senior Secondary Schools
No. in 13-  Partici-                             No. in 15   Partici-
No. of    Enroll-  14 Age        pation       No. of      Enroll-   to 18 Age   pation
pr_rine_ e            Schools    ment    Group Li         Rate       Schools      ment      GrouP L        Rate
Arusi                    15       2,975      45,500       700%         2/2        2,289        84,,500     3.0%
Bale                      6       1,179      56,350       2.0          1L2          724      l04,650       o.6
Begemder                 15       4,084      72,800       5.0          5          2,863      135,200       2.0
Eritrea                  67      ll,588    l15,0O0       11.0         17L2       10,980       195,000      6.0
Gemu-Gofa                 8       1,592      38,i50       4.0          1L2          839       70,850       1.0
Goj jam                  12       4,132      93,800       4.0          2L2        3,141      174,200       2.0
Harrar                    30       4,989     177,800       3.0         6           4,599      330,200       1.0
Illubabor                 8       1,552      38,850       4.0          3            849       72,150       1.0
Kiaffa                    10       2,228     72,100       3.0          12         1,484       133,900       1.0
Shoa                     56      14,810     233,100       6.0         17          9,466      434,200       2.0
Addis Ababa (Zone)        88      21,432      47,950      45.0         352        20,191       89,o5o      23.0
Sidamo                    25       5,253     133,700      4.0          3           3,087      248,300       1.0
Tigre                    13        3,985      98,000       4.0         6           3,721      182,000       2.0
Wollega                   21       5,291      68,600       8.0          9          3,092      127:400       2.0
Wollo                     24       4,828    133,000        4.o          2/2        3,457      247,000       1.0
Total               398      90,359   1,414,700        2%         110        70,782    2,628,600       30 
/    All figures are estimates based on the 1966 Census.
2  Includes schools using double shiftso
Source:  School Censvs for Ethcpia >_69/70-1972/73.



ETHIOPIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ACTIAL AND PROJECTED ENROLLMENTS
('000)
Actual                                 Average %                           Projected
1969/70          1970/71           1971/72    1972/73   1973/74    Increase p.a.              1974/75   1978/79    1983/84    Average %
1969/70  -                    Assumption                    increase p.a.
1973/74               1    2    1    2    1        2        1974/75-1983/84
A. Primary Education
Grade   1                                124               135              155          166       192                                  245        383          838
2                                78                85                95         100        114                                 142         260         645
3                                69                75                82          87        101                                 ill         234         524
4                                 61               67                72          78         91                                   99        210         435
5                                50                55                61          64         74                                  88         174         365
6                                49                54                60          63         73                                   81        144         309
Total                                431              471               526         557        645            10.8                  766       1405        3116             17.0
B. Secondary Education
1) Junior Secondary
Grade   7                                 26                35               34          40         45                            44    45   47   55    56   78
8                                29                28                34          36         39                            43    44   48   56    51   71
Total                                 55               63                68          76         85             12.4           87    89   95  111   107  149         2.3    5.9
2) Senior Secondary
Grade   9                                 16                21                19          25         28                           26    27   29   33    28   38
10                                12                14                18          17         21                            22    23   24   28    26   36
11                                  6                9                12          16         15                            17    17   17   20    22   30
12                                 4                 5                 7           9         12                            13    13   14   16    17   24
Total                                 38               49                56          66         76             19.0           78    80   84   98    93  128         2.0    5.3
C. Higher Education
(including other post-secondary
courses)                                         6                 7                8          11         13             20.8                  14         19         27               7.6
I/
D. Non-Formal Education                              -                -                 -           -          92             -                   162        314        600              15.0
1/         It includes only literacy and adult education.  Data on other programs (e.g., vocational and on-the-job
training, mass media education) are not available.
Assumption 1 is based on the expansion financed only by IDA Education II and IV.
Assumption 2 takes into account the expansion beyond that financed by IDA funds including other public sourcess if available.
Source: Ministry of Education and Bank Group Staff.



ETlHIOPIA - FOURH EDUCATION PKOJEC.
GOVERNMENT RECURRENT EXPENDITURE AND ITS
ALLOCATION ON EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(Eth$ Million)
Average                 jce                             Average %
Actual                 Estimate   Increase p.a.           Projected                         Increae  . a.
1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73   1973/74   1969/70-1973/74  1974/7   1978/79  1983/84                1974/75 - 1983/84
A.  Central Government
Dur,.2is ti                    405.0    462.5    452.7    494.6        540.0          7.5          665.0    870.0   1,278.0                      7.5
Foreign                         73.9      80.6     68.8      68.5       65.8         -3.0            -         -         -                        -
Total                          478.9    507.1    521.5    563.1        605.8          6.0             -        -         -                        _
B. On Education & Training:
1. Total
Domestic                        71.0      79.2      87.9     99.7      111.5         12.0          134.0    195.0       320.0                   10.2
Foreign                         19.7      26.2      16.3     15.8       15.8        - 5.7             -        -          -                        -
Total                           90.7    105.4    104.2    115.5        127.3          8.9             -         -          -                       -
2. Ministry of Education
Domestic L                      55.4      62.5      70.8     81.3       92.0         13.6           110.0    164.0      284.0                    1L.0
Foreign                         13.0      20.0      10.1     10.1       10.1        - 6.6             -         -         -                        -
Total                           68.4      82.5      80.9     91.4      102.1         10.5             -         -          -                       -
3. HSIU
Domestic                        13.3      14.0      14.2      15.3      16.0           4.8           19.0      26.0      30.0                     5.2
Foreign                          6.0       5.5       5.5      5.0        5.0         -4.5             -         -          -                        -
Total                           19.3      19.5      19.7      20.3       21.0          2.2            -         -          -                        -
.2/
4. Others
Domestic                         2.3       2.7       2.9       3.1        3.5         11.0           5.0        5.0        6.0                     2.1
Foreign                          0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7        0.7           -            -          -          -                        -
Total                            3.0       3.4       3.6       3.8        4.2          8.8           -          -          -
C. B 1 as % of A
Domestic (.)                    17.5      18.5      19.4      20.1       20,6           -           20.2       22.4       25. 0
*   includes  servicing of external debts.
1;    Estimated on the assumptions of 5.9% and 5.3% of Jr. and Sr. secondary schnol enrollment expansion rates p.a.
2/    Includes the Ministries of Agriculture, Public Health, Interior, and Commerce, Industry and Tourism,
and the Instittute of Public Administration.
SOURCE:  Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Education, Bank Group staff estimabe.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
Criteria for Selection of Site Locations
for
Primary Schools, Secondar schools, The Cooperative
Training Center and the Community Skill Training Centers
1.   Primary Schools
(a) The highest priority is given to weredas (sub-district
geographic division) with no government school. When all
weredas have been provided with at least one school, the
procedure is to accord the highest priority to those with
only one school.
(b) Extensions to existing schools during the coming five years
will be the entire financial responsibility of the communities
with technical assistance from Regional Construction Offices.
(c) New locations will be planned, so that they do not duplicate
existing facilities. Non-government agencies will be guided
by provincial authorities in the establishment of new school
urits so that these complement rather than duplicate the
government school system.  Decisions on new school locations
will be made at the local level. Great weight will be given
tc, Regional Educational Offices' recommendations in compiling
th,e annual construction programs.
(d)  Priority for new construction will (after catering for the
provision in (a) above) be accorded to those awrajas and
weredas where participation rates are below the national
average. This will necessitate a close relationship between
population distribution and the distribution of new classrooms.
(e) There will be a general tendency to encourage the development
of smaller primary schools units (i.e., 2 or 4 classroom
schools) as these will become increasingly appropriate as the
rtral countryside is provided with schools.
2.   Second try Schools
Secondary school sites selected would all be in awrajas which
presently do not have secondary schools.
3.   The Cooperative Training Centers (CTC)
A suitable site, agreeable to the Association, for the Cooperative
Training Center will be selected and the Association informed in a timely



ANNEX 9
Page 2
manner to prevent any delay in the scheduled implementation of this project
item.
4.   Community Skill Training Centers (CSTCs)
The CSTCs will be sited in weredas where:
(a)  there is ongoing development activity.  In most cases
it will be linked to the development and expansion of
the Minimum Package Program. Additional linkages are
planned to a rural public works program and an expanded
program of basic health services;
(b)  where a nucleus of local organization and development
oriented leadership exists, including the presence of
Government development staff. The introduction of the
CSTCs will be closely tied to the implementation and
expansion of the Awraja Self-Administration plan;
(c)  where training needs can be identified and where learning
opportunities can be expanded; and
(d)  where the community wants and is willing to support the
program.
These criteria will be applied through the conducting of baseline
surveys and interviews in each of the potential areas selected.
Within the weredas selected, the Community Skill Training Centers
will be established adjacent to a primary school (and, if possible, a health
center) at some focal point such as a market center. In some cases, existing
facilities may be used. Each CSTC will serve the population of a wereda which
has an estimated average population of 50,000 and an average area of about
800 square miles. Thus most of the population would be within walking distance
of the CSTC.
5.   Reporting Procedures
(a)  The work plan and budget to be submitted annually should
include, inter alia, information indicating site locations
proposed with a statement that selections conform with the
above agreed criteria; and
(b)  The annual reports should include, inter alia, a detailed
list of work completed on the various sites during the
reporting period.



ANNEX 10
ETHIOPIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST BY TYPE OF EXPE4DITURE
Eth$ (Millions)            US$ (Millions)      % of
Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Cost
1. Civil Works
a) Site development          1.61    0.40    2.01    0.78    0.19    0.97       5%
b) Buildings
(i) Academic &
Communal           17.31    4.33   21.64    8.36    2.09   10.45    57%
(ii) Boarding            0.35    0.09    0.44   0o16    0005    0.21         1%
(iii) Staff housing       0.41    0.10    0.51    0.20    0.05    0.25        1%
Sub-total (b)      18.07    4-52   22-59    8.73    2.18   10.91    59%
Sub-total 1              19.68    4.92   24.60    9.50    2.38   11.88    65%
2. Professional Services        0.19    0.19    0.38   009    0.09    0.18        1%
3. Furniture                    0.79    2.37    3.16    0.39    1.14    1.53       8%
4. Instructional Equipment      0.39    3.52    3o91    0.19    1.70    1.89    10%
5. Curriculum/Radio Prog. Dev. 2.87    0.15    3.02    1.39    0.07    1.46        8%
6. Project Administration       1.72   093    2q65    0.83    0.45    1.28        7%
7. Technical Assistance         0.09    0.30    0.39    0.04    0.15    0.19       1
Base Cost (Sub-total 1-7)  25.73   12.38   38.11   12-43    5.98   18.41   100%
8. Contingencies
1. Physica' increase (8%)  2.22    0.95    3.17    1.07    o.46    1.53
2. Price increase (50%)    13.31    5,52   18.90    6.43    2.70    9.13
Sub-total 8              15.53    6.54   22.07    7.50    3.16   10o.66
Total (1-8)             41.26   18.92   60.18   1993         14   29.07
9. UNICEF (Equipment)            -      1.62    1.62      -      0.78    0.78
10. ODM (Equiplent)               -      -089    o.89      -      043    0.43
Total (1-10)            41.26   21.43   62.69   19.93   10.35   30.28
11. Taxes                        9ol0      -      9.10    4.40      -      4.40
PROJECT TOTAL (1-11)        50.36   21.43   71.79   24.33   10.35   34.68



ETHIOPIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUNMARY OF PROJECT COST
(ELth  000' & Total En us$ OOO's)
(US$1.00 = Eth$2.07)
C-i  i I    Wor ks                                                                  Curriculu
On I 14   ogo                                                         Total       or Progra
Pr-ject Iet.s                   Student Placen            Site    Acadae.ic                                   Total                j_srruc-   Civil Work.,  Dvni-PoPnet    P-rof i-rol                 Project               PROJECT TOTAL
DoveS-  &            Staff     ~~~~~Total  civil                          F-ma  Pcicur,   & Insovoo        cicco      T.chnical   Adnin,is-
N..            Nan-                   Existing  NSe       Total   opnant   CoBna-nal  Oerdiog   Hon.ing    ci ldings   Worka   Pornitore   Eqoipneot   Equipment       Training       (Arch/Engr.)   Asisitanco   trotion        Uts  $000s        01$ OOs'
1. Primacy Schkooi  (550) -            -      110,000    110,000    687.5   11,412.5     -         -       11,412.5   12,100.0   1,650.0    275.0       14,025.0         _              _              _         1,452.0         15,477.0       7,476.8
2. Jni-or See. Schoolo (13)             -      3,600      3,600    260.7    1,738.2      -         _        1,738.2    1,998.9    261.0    450.0         2,709.9         -              -               -          239.9          2,949.8       1,425.0
3. Senior Soc. Schools (8)              -       2,560      2,560    237.8    1,585.3     -         -        1,585.3    1,823.1    267.5    720.0         2,810.6          -              -              -          218.8          3,029.4       1,463.5
4. C-rriculu= DIvelopsent               -          -         -      -          -          -        -          -          -         -          -            -            2,837.8          -              -          -              2,837.8       1,370.9
0. Radio (Edc. BLroad.a.timg)(9)                  -          -      72.0      306.0      -         -          306.0      378.0     -         916.1       1,294.1         127.0                          -          117.4 2        1,538.5         743.2
6. Cosnanity Skill Training
Centers (100)                   -       3,000      3.000     81.8    1,361.2      -         -        1,361.2    1,443.0    200.0    400.0         2,043.0          -             -             176.0        173.2          2,392.2       1.155.6
7. AnstJa Rural Development
Centera (24)                               -          -     165.6    1,108.8      -         -        1,108.8    1,274.4    165.6    331.2         1,771.2          50.0          -              -           152.9          1,974.1         953.7
8. Fornst Ranger T-ag. Center (1)       -         40         40     37.9       47.8    36.3       67.4        151.5      189.4      12.6    135.4          337.4           -             -              -           22.7            360.1         174.0
9.  Cooperativ- Training Cent-r (1)     -         80         80    42.4        71.8    70.7       26.9        169.4      211.8      20.3    110.6          342.7           _             _              82.8        25.4            450.9         217.8
10. bon  E .onnoics Deparentnt (1)      120        40        160    29.5        58.4    59.6        -           118.0     147.5      17.7      95.0         260.2           _             _             124.2        17.7            402.1         194.3
11. Health Annt. Trng. 8enters (3)       -        360        360    248.7      967.0    273.6   417.6        1,658.2    1,906.9    189.0    273.0         2,368.9           -             -              -          228.8          2,597.7       1,254.9
12. Sociol Science Canter (1)        6,500        720 4/  6,500    149.1    2,979.9       -         -        2,979.9    3,129.0    380.0    200.0         3,709.0           -            375.5           -           -             4,084.5       1,973.2
13. Curriculr.=/Radi ProgramDev.        -          -          -      -         -          -D        -          -                     -         -            -           3,014.8                        -                             -             -
14. ProiefninnaI Services                -         -          _      _         _           _        _          _          _          _         _            _                            375,5
IS. Teohnical Anoiotance                 -         -          -      -         -           -                    -         -          -         -             -              -             -             383.0        -
16. Project Administration               -         -          -      -         -           -        -           -         -          -         -             -              -             -              -        2,648.8            -             -
2,013.0  21,636.9    440.2    511.9   22,589.0  24,602.0
san. Cent (Sob-total 1-16)                                                                                        24,602.0   3,163.7   3,906.3      31,672.0        3,014.8         375.5          383.0    2,648.8          38,094.1      00,402.9
17. Contingem.ies
a)  Physical Increane (0%)                                                                                         2,464.,     166.0    187.0        2,817.0          145.0          42.0           42.0       124.0          3,170.0       1,531.4
b) Price Incr-ase  (So%)                                                                                           14,280.0   1,140.0   1,430.0     16,850.0          807.0         207.0          166.0       870.0         18,900.0       9,130.4
lSb-total (1-17)                                                                                              41,346.0   4,469.7  53523.3       51,339.0        3,966.8         624,5          591.0    3,642.8          60,164.1      29,064.7
18. UNICEF  (Equipment)                                                                                                   _          _      1,620.0        1,620.0          -             -              -           -             1,620.0         782.6
19. ODM    (Eqoipn.nt)                                                                                                    _                   887.0          887.0          -             -              -           -               887.0         428.5
8ub-total (1-19)                                                                                              41,346.0  4,469.7   8,030.3       53,846.0        3,966.8         624.5          501.0    3,642.8          62,671.1      30,275.8
20. Tacos  (ImPort dotien)                                                                                              4,135.0   2,179.0   2.485.0        8,794.0          -             -              -          309.0          9,108.0       4,400.0
TOTAL  (1-20)                                                                                                 45,481.0   6,648.7  10,515.3       62,645.0       3,966.8         624.5          390.0    3.951.8          71,779.1      34,675.8
1/  2,200 niassroon -nits.
2/ Eth$72.0 (for moss media radio) +  Eth$45.4 (Proj-ct UEit)    Eth$117.4
3!  120 existing plums. at Avb Agticultur-l Institute.
4/ Th-es ar. replacing existing insdequate facIliti-n.



ETHIOPIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
COST COMPARISON PER STUDENT PLACE
Estimated Unit Capital Cost in New Project Schools in US$
Gross Area per Student           Site                                                     Total               Median -
Type of Facility                   Place or per Housing Unit    Development    Buildings    Furniture    Equipment   (April '75                 (1970 Prices)
IDA IV          Median 1/                                                                 Prices)
_ - ~~~~~~~~~~M2                                     M2 _  
Academic & Communal
Primary Schools                               1.2               3.1            S  3           $ 50          $  7           $  1        $  61 2/       $ 200  (EMENA)
Secondary Schools                             4.5              4.5               40            266            40             93          439            489  (EAN)
Post-Secondary - Agricultural (FRTC)          9.3              10.0             144            577            87          1,570 3/    2,378 3/        1,526  (EAN)
Post Junior Sec.       "        (CTC)         8.0              10.0             108            434            59            604        1,205          1,526  (EAN)
Post Junior Sec, - Health       (HATC)        6.6              10.0             115            766            77            115        1,073          1,526  (EAN)
Adult Education/Training         (CSTC)       5.5               8.2              13            219            32             62          326 2/       1,175  (EAN)
Boarding Facilities
Post-Secondary - Agriculture  (FRTC)          6.5 )                             109            438            66             66          679            674  (BAN)
Post Junior Sec.        "       (CTC)         6.3 )             7.2             107            427             64            64          662          1,224  (WAN)
Post Junior Sec, - Health       (HATC)        6.3 )                             110            734             74           110        1,028             903  (EMENA)
Staff Housing4/
Post-Secondary - Agriculture  (FRTC)           70 )                           1,357          5,430             -             -         6,787          8,889  (EAN)
Post Junior Sec.        "       (CTC)         112 )              77           3,246         13,440             -             -        16,686         14,407  (WAN)
Post Junior Sec. - Health        (HATC)         97 )                          1,681         11,208             -             -        12,889          10,393  (EMENA)
1/  From CPS memorandum - Unit costs in education projects dated September 27, 1973.
2/ Construction work to be departmental forces.
31 Equipment cost per student place is high due to small number (40) of student places and includes equipment to be used for in-service training.
4/  Total housing units in project   23.



ETHI0PlA - FOUROH EI1UCAIION PROJECI
0211tEXENIA7 102 & EXPEN'DITI7OLxCHED17LL 
(uSOq Stil I --n)
Year                         1                          2                          3                          4                           5                          6
I.ple-t.ti- Sh.dl.Q-attr-                           1      2      3     4      5             I     8      91 ]           I       12   13    14    15    16    17    18       19     2      'I    22    23    24    25    26
US$S Million
I.Civil Works
1. Primary Schools                               5.05----x--00.   ...                                             o      x      X     *0 XX XX *0 XX XX                         X     X      X      X
2. Secon dary Shos1.85                                            --    --   N        IN#9   *0     ** **.000                   X     *      X-XX ccx                    x     000*         XX    0* cvNo 
3. Radio (Ed ..arioa .. IBoad*a-ti.g)            0.18             --- ---          ##Yk                    ... .*0*..0..    ... 0...00000                 ...000  0000..*
4. C. -soity Skill Trai.ing Centers              O.?0             --- ---... ..    ... 00 .0                        .   .00   000     *0000  ...0  ...   ...      X      00 00 XX    * 
5. A-J.ra R-1a  D-vlopment Cesrer                0.61             ---0*-* * * * ..   ...   000    00000                                     .0.    00.00.0..X
6. For-t Rang-r Tr-sisg Centa-                   0.09             ---*    00 ** os                                 000          0     00 00---0                   0* XV 00    X 
7. Cooperative Training Csoier                   0.10             -0--*0                        *     *--        00     .00   .0..           0      00 00 cx cv    x                  c      c
8 .Home Eco-si.s Departmeot                      0.07             ---*0*--0*..*...   ...                                         ...000     000   0000..050 XV VO 0*
9. Health Axolotast Training C.niers             0.92             ---   -*0 **--                                   0*0         00      0     XX 00000                    0' vc        c      c
10. S0*i01 Scienc  Center                         1.51             5~ s           0     0      0      0      x      x     x      c      x     0      0      0      0      X      0*0         VXc 
11.88
I.T.tboical Asoli.tor- Soh.dul.
1. F.sllossaip for CSTCs (1k s--ye-r)-- --
2. Speci.liets for CSTC. (2 -nn-year)-- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
3. Fellnvnkips for CTC.  (4 ma-year)
4. Fellowships foc HED   (6 mao-years)                                                       ii      3      Ea    BEE   BE=   g
fnp..dit-sr  Schedule                        us$ Miilioo
1. Civil Works                                  11.88-                    -                  0.40  0.45  0.52  0.81  0.82  0.81  0.81  0.01  0.01  0.82  0.52  0.80  0.69  0.76  0.53  0.62  0.15  0.21                   -    0.19     -
2. Profe..sionel Services.                       0.10                                 0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.01    -   0.01    -   0.06    -   0.01  0.01  1.01  0.11    -                  -      -   0.01             -     -
3. F,srnit-r                                      1.53-         --                       -      -      -      -        0.30  0.60  0.10    -         -      - 0.10  0.10  0.11  0.23
4. l-t-troi-oal E9oip ...t                       1.89                                                      -0.40  0.70  0.20         -      -      -   0.15  0.15  0.15  0.14
5. Wrtci-olomlRdi. Program D-evlopment           1.46                     - 0.10  0.10  0.12  0.12  0.12  0.12  0.12  0.12  0.12  0.12  0.12  0.12  0.02  0.02  0.02 
6. Project Administration                        1.28                          0 .06  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.16  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.03  0.03  0.02                       -
7. Techoical Assistao-c                          0.9                             .01  0.09  0.01  0.02  0.01  002  0.03  0.02  0.01  0.01  0.11  0.01  0.00  0.01  0.00
Base Cost (00k-total 1-7)                18.41                           0.17  0.19  0.62  0.66  0.78  1.03  1.24  2.31  1.31  1.00  1.01  1.01  1.12  1.15  1.04  1.20  0.59  0.68  0.21  0.28  0.03  0.22  0.02                       -
8 .Conting-ecies                                10.66               -     -    0.10  0.12  0.36  0.36  0.46  0.59  1.00  1.33  0.76  0.58  0.59  0.59  0.68  0.67  0.60  0.69  0.34  0.39  0.12  0.16  0.02  0.03  0.02                        -
PROJECT TOTAL-                           $ 29.07-                    -   0.27  0.31  0.97  1.02  1.54  1.82  2.24  3.64  2.07  1.58  1.60  1.60  1.85  1.82  1.64  1.89  0.93  1.07  0.33  0.44  0.00  0.35  0.04                        -
1/ From dote of credit nffecticee...
21   nlssdesoo-trib.i-oo  by UNICEF, OIM and import d.rien and Lno-.
Legend:            Sltonand appoloim-t of o-hite-ts                                              Te.d.ci.g/aord/c..st-cti../deli,.ry 0t                              -   Srhedssle f-r t-*hieal assista-c
" Slntioc end  --ey of 'ites                                                     f-roi*-  - equipm-t ph-o
* DSnign and  -ost orti.o docomnot pha-                                     v       . Xrotee perid



ANNEX 14
ETHIOPIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMIATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
uS$ (Millions)
Accumulated            Undisbursed
Quarter -          Disbursements           Disbursement              Balance
1                                 ~                        ~       23.00
2                                                                  23.00
3                    -                        -                    23.00
4                   0.20                    0.20                   22.80
5                   0.25                    0.45                   22.55
6                   0.75                     1.20                  21.80
7                   0.80                    2.00                   21.00
8                   0.95                    2.95                   20.05
9                   1.25                    4.20                   18.80
10                   2.20                    6.40                   16.60
11                   2.90                    9.30                   13.70
12                   1.60                   10.90                   12.10
13                   1.15                   12.05                   10.95
14                   1.15                   13.20                    9.80
15                   1.15                   14.35                    8.65
16                   1.40                   15.75                    7.25
17                   1.50                   17.25                    5.75
18                   1.30                   18.55                    4.45
19                   1.50                   20.05                    2.95
20                   0.70                   20.75                    2.25
21                   0.90                   21.65                    1.35
22                   0.35                   22.00                    1.00
23                   0.30                   22.30                    0.70
24                   0.25                   22.55                    0.45
25                   0.25                   22.80                    0.20
26                   0.20                   23.00
1/ From date of credit effectiveness.



ETHIOPIA: EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID
STUDENTS ENROLLED IN GOVERNMENT SCHOOLS, 1973/1974
UNIVERSITY
GRADES         PARTICIPATION RATE X                                                                                                               1 /
17                                                                                                                                        Z "7 
15   05%
BOYS                                                                                   GIRLS
14                                                                                                                                        a-
13           , 
SENIOR SECONDARY                                                                                                                                     75,462
12                                                                                                                                8,9            2,95
41                                                                                                                           11,958  "'          3,160
10                                                                                       ~~~~~~          ~          ~~~~~16,325  .4,598
96b                                                                                                          21 ,173: -6,495
JUNIOR SECONDARY                                                                                                                                     84,{23
_ , : s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...., :                                    .     ..''' .
8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~28,551 =;2,7
7                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32.621  1.2,777
PRIMARY                                                                                                                                       645 246
50,792                                                                  22,220
5972    51,242                                                                    3244
4                                                                              62,062                                                   .                              29,076
-           20%
2 1 134. 12                                                     0; -g.                                                                                                        -4;;t0-yEt q U0f 00:.;Au796,000  -  -  34.500
134,412               .                                2___57,378
140,000          120,000           100,000           80,000            60,000            40,000            20,000              0              20,000            40,000            60,000
- Grade and Male/Female Breakdown Not Ana,lable
X   ErIollments as % of Relevant Age Group                                                                                                                                 World Bank-9360






ETHIOPIA
STRUCTURE OF THE GOVERNMENT EDUCATION SYSTEM, 1973/1974
FIRST LEVEL                                                 SECOND LEVEL
PRIMARY V                                                   SECONDARY                                    4                         HIGHER
.4                      GENERAL                          t                                  UNIVERSITIES
JUNCIOR                      SENIOR CYCLE               -
Grade   1        2      3       4 .              6            7        8            9       1                1       2
Academic Stream    l                       ~~~~~~Architecture, Engineering
Arts, Science, Law, Agriculture, Business, Public Health,
Fine Arts &                                 social Work, Theology, Education, SecondarY Teacher Training
Music Schools_____*__
Institutes & Post-Secondarv Vocational Teacher T-aining
Commercial Schools
0   Examination/Selective Test                                            @                                             >Training
: University Service  {}_
JOBS
World Bank-9361






00 a ;  '>C. S  36!   F   4lv   ;          t   44*  0 T  E    ;                                jaN'JANJRY 1975
ETHIOPIA
t AFR!CA            I                                                                             5 ,          e         FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
A   $iall 5,\e0rece C(retr Addis Ababa
.-  Ham ' * Econmcs- Ambo
7                                                                            rot oroor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h  Coapertive Training Center
0   Fa !et Ranger Training Center - Merogesha
Ad!, f v   u  1   X  /  r   ieiez        ,                            Health Assistort Trainng Centers-Y Ybelt, Woldiya,
-   Momn Roatts                    Shrambo
$U         D l    C)  A    N    \        >               Deberoc ssmeoreee      S,        $  e  a             %    0                  :2nd2  Raoris               : Rodio Transmitters
\ 3-    inciAd Undaries Biale ;ar
U  I /\  nticheI I A.in  -A    -ttInfrnothonal Boundairies                                                    Gore
N                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Goba
Mekole
0  X    tt~ ~\    \  X   <)  ,,6   < e  .,  \ <  ;7  t>00    0 0                Ghimbi
*Alemaya
Mekdle                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Debra Markleo
0         ,' DIbi  f)   iMt chew   ,   ~Soddo (Existing)
7.                                                                              * .'\~~~~~~~~~ Aesob  I h-Asmarca Existing)
fee~~~~~~~~~~~~.
A /ddme /- F.T.A.                                                                    GuIF   of    Ad e n
V         - {X;      W/                                     erTb\              oldiygto                            jiot
Bob Dor,          lierlobee  ) I   , eIrly
(            ii~          ~        Shoroin; G.          41     Deere Tsetn    ere S         Se eo ' j&mouto        ,.                      S   0   P: MA  L4     t A
ldob  oL.e fresoyK BoiH          e        H  A kR
0$eneonnao  ro >                        -<' >;/0             b i                 /                                <            
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W  SeC                       '      . - - - WerelQ \, 
J      De K~gh.   blE S~                            Y.                     A          C\  Mltt S A        I l mAe
U r A higD A ) 9 \, , . y t j                           |      -      4        *2tegodisiige



