  STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                               78706                1




Ai~C/er         INTERi:JA'l'IONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPHENT

                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                               Washington, D.   c.
                                               Tuesday, May 27, 1975

                        The meeting of the Executive Directors of the

             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and

             the International Development Association was convened at

             10:02 a.m., in the Board Room, 1818 H Street, N. W. , Nr.

             Robert S . .l1cNamara, President, presiding as chairman.
       STRICTL CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                           2.




                                     Agenda Item                                             Page

                                                                                            I

                                     •                                                      I

                                     •                      I              I   I
                                                                                            •
                                     ·-                         I                           •
                                     5 . Proposed Credit-Ethiopia ( fourth Education Project) 96

                                                                                                    I

                                     •                              I
                                                                                                •




HOOVER REPORTING CO~ INC.
320 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E.
Washin&ton, D.C. 20002
<202) 546-6666                   1
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                      95




              -   -                                                -
           -
           -     --
                --
           ----

                                   -                           --
           •                      -

                   MR. I·lcl:JAHARA:   Are there other questions vvi th
STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                             96




           respect to it?
                                                                         ~
                      Some doubt has been raised about the priority ']

           of this kind of an investment.      If you \vish, I would be /

           happy to take a vote on it.

                      Not hearing a request for that, we will go ahead

           with the project and move, then, to our next agenda item, a

           proposed credit to Ethiopia in the amount of $23 million

           equivalent f0r an education project.       I will ask Hr. Jalil

           to present this to us.

                      Go ahead, sir.

                      !VIR. JALIL:    Hr. President, Hembers of the Board:

           Ethiopia, as you are all a\vare, is going through fundamental

           changes reaching almost all aspects of social and economic

           life of its people.       Within a short period of about 15

           ;:uonths, the Government has established new social and

           economic goals and is moving toward implementation of

           fundamental reforms.       For the achievement of the Government's

           objectives, perhaps no sector is more important than the

           education sector, to which I shall limit myself in this

           presentation.

                      Modern educational development in Ethiopia is of

           recent origin -- it started about 30 years ago and, from a

           very low base, made rapid progress at all levels of formal
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                         97




           education.    However, in 1972, a comprehensive review of the

           sector conducted by the Ethiopians, with assistance from the

           Bank Group, concluded that the education system had basically

           produced middle and high-level administrative and managerial

           nanpower, but had neglected the rural areas where 90 percent

           of the Ethiopian population live.    Only about 7 percent of

           the people were literate, as compared to 19 percent in Sudan       nd

           30 percent in Kenya; the primary school participation rate wa

           20 percent as compared to about 25 percent in Sudan and 67

           per cent in Kenya.    There were large inequalities between urb n

           and rural areas and between various regions.    For example,

           three out of the country's 14 provinces, each with a populati n

           of 2 million, had only one senior secondary school.     The

           educational curricula v1ere often not relevant to job

           requirements.    Also, Government recurrent expenditure on

           education in 1972 amounted to about 20 percent of Government'

           total expenditures and was still rising.

                        'rhe new Government wishes to initiate fundamental

           changes in educational curricula, costs and structure and,

           in line with its policy to decentralize administration and to

           emphasize rural development, make a determined thrust into

           the rural areas to rapidly improve education, skills and

           productivity.   The Goverrunent has associated teachers,
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                       98




           students and other concerned groups in designing and

           implementing the new strategy and there is now a wide measure

           of consensus behind the education reform program.

                       The project before you is the first attempt in

           Ethiopia to link education plans to an integrated program of

           rural   regeneration.   It is not more of the same again.        The

           project would facilitate development of relevant primary

           education and skills in the rural areas and an infrastructure

           for coordinated rural development in association with local

           representatives.   In accordance with criteria for site

           locations agreed with the Government, the secondary schools

           included in the project would be located in districts which

           presently do not have secondary schools and the primary

           schools would be located in remote rural areas without

           primary schools; 80 percent of the primary school sites \vould

           be accessible only by mule.    The proposed community skill-

           training centers would introduce improved technology to a

           variety of rural crafts and skills, train rural adolescents

           for self-employment and provide skill-training in support of

           rural public works programs.    Specialized workers in

           agricultural cooperatives, forestry, health and home

           economics would be produced in larger numbers and revisions            f

           curricula and textbooks at all levels and retraining of
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                        99



           teachers would be undertaken.

                      Upon completion of the project, \ve expect the

           primary level participation rate to be increased from the

           current 20 percent rate to about 40 percent, and inequities i

           the regional distribution of educational opportunities to be

           reduced.   Implementation prospects are good and project

           implementation agencies which are experienced are being furthe

           strengthened.

                      Such an ambitious program can only be carried out

           if the greatest efforts are made to economize and stretch

           available resources to the maximma extent possible.        The

           Government has plans for cost-reduction measures through simp

           building designs, maximum utilization of local materials and

           labor, and public contributions to expansion and maintenance

           of the physical facilities.     He propose to review the

           Government's plans and the program of their implementation

           and assist them to keep expenditures in the sector to a

           reasonable proportion of e1e Government's resources.

                      In   sw~ary,   this project, which would break new

           ground, would be a significant step forward in making the

           education system more relevant to Ethiopia's socio-economic

           needs and the Government's objectives and priorities.

                      'l'hank you.
STRICTLY   ~ONFIDENTIAL                                                     loo


                        HR. I·1cNA.l1ARl-;.:   Thank you, sir.

                        Dr. Sen.

                        DR. SK-J:      Hr. Chairman, I would like to congratula e

            t.i1e staff for preparing and presenting to us this excellent

            and innovative project, and I would like to congratulate 1·lr.

            Jalil for a fine presentation.          In fact, Hr. Chairman, this

            is the kind of project, education project, that I have been

            looking for all these years.          I think that the discussion

           that we had in the Board on education in general and on           non-

           fonnal education sometime back, these discussions have been

           useful, and I think this is a product of those policy papers.

                        I would like this kind of project to be repeated

           in other countries, and from that point of view, I feel that

           this is a project which should be very carefully studied and

           we should try to learn what lessons we can learn from an

           experiment of this kind, this very comprehensive approach to

           education, general education, and particularly to nonformal

           education.    And this nonforn1al education part is particularly

           especially innovative.

                        I note vlith special interest what has been provided

           here for radio education, in curriculum development and radio

           program development.        There is not much experience in this

           area in the world, only in a few countries they have tried tha .
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                   101




           So I would like to get some more information as to what

           steps are being taken to develop the right kind of curriculum

           and radio program, and also whether this radio program will

           be supplemented by correspondence courses and whether this

           education, this nonformal education part will be in future

           extended to other areas.   This has made a beginning in a

           limited area, but nonformal education is important not only

           to provide education to people who cannot attend schools, but

           also to provide education to the adults.    &~d   nonformal

           education is a way of providing opportunity for life-long

           education to some of the people.

                      So I would like to know what special action and

           steps are being taken to develop e1is curriculum of radio

           program development, and also what arrangements will be made

           to keep this under study with a view to applying the lessons

           to other countries, because I feel that this program will be

           of great interest to a number of other developing countries.

                      Thank you, Hr. Chairman.

                      MR. HcNANARA:   Thank you, Dr. Sen.

                      I will ask Hr. Ballantine in a moment to comment

           on what application we see for this type of nonformal

           education project   to other   countries.   But, first, Hr.

           Jalil, what action will be taken to develop curricula to be
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                  102




           utilized in the radio program, and will those curricula

           be supplemented by correspondence courses?           ~ilill   the nonforrna

           programs within Ethiopia be extended into other areas and

           other fields of activities?

                      MH. JALIL:        Education Radio has considerable

           history in Ethiopia.         It has been there for 15 years, and

           there are two stations, coverage is limited to about 200

           schools.   Under this project we want to extend i t to about

           11 stations and most primary and secondary schools.

                       It has been receiving bilateral assistance, mainly

           from the British ODI,'i., in developing the course content and

           curricula, and it employs local teachers and educationists

           in developing the course content.           It has done, as far as

           our present mission found, good work in science, mathematics,

           and the like, but for further details I would request, sir,

           that we call on Ptr. Loken.

                      HR. i·1cNANARA:      Surely.     Hr. Loken.

                      Ivffi.   LOKEN:   Mr. Chairman, as i-.•I r. Jalil has just

           it is not a new program, it is simply an extension of an exis·

           ing program, and they do have considerable expertise in the

           country, not only the local       peo~le,    Lut also some very, very

           good, very experienced men on the development of rauio

           programs and on the development of course materials.
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                        103 . .



                       In the third education project we did provide assi -

           tance to help them on their basic development of curriculum

           reform.   And this is heavily aimed at the mathematics and

           the acience fields.     But that program has been evolving

           over the last three years.     They have over 150 people now

           working on the curriculum reform or changes, and they are

           very, very far along.     They hope to get their first four-year

           primary school materials together by the end of this coming

           year, and we have looked over the materials produced so far

           and they are excellent.     So we feel no hesitation at all in

            the curriculum or in the radio areas.

                       Now, as the rural education programs develop,

           the radio program and a related correspondence program will

           get more heavily into what we now call nonformal.     And they

           will begin to get into health education, into sanitation, int

            a whole variety of related farmer-training programs, via the

            radio.   But that is in the process now of being developed.

                       MR. McNAMARA:    Thank you, sir.

                        There is one other innovative feature that Or. Sen

            didn't mention but I am sure he noticed, and that is the

            increased emphasis to be placed on female attendance.       This

            is an example, not by any means the worst skewing, but of an

            extensive maldistribution of places.    I have forgotten the
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                           104



           exact figures, I think I calculated that the males in primary

           school were 28 percent of the age group and the females about

           12 percent, something like that, and it is that kind of a

           problem -vihich has great impact on the developing countries an

           which affects such subjects as population planning.

                        Dr. Ballantine, >vould you conunent on \vhether this

           is an exception, or can we expect other nonformal education

           projects for other countries?

                        L'1R.   BALLANTINE:   Mr. Chairman, I am glad to say

           it's not an exception entirely, although I have to say i t is

           a good example. This Ethiopian project         is the first one in

           Ethiopia since the well-known education sector review in

           which they took a deep look at the system and came up with

           a number, as is explained in this, a number of very subs·tanti
                                a
           proposals for reformr/few of which vlere modified by the new

           Government, but the basic pattern remains.         So the opportunit

           existed and the understanding existed between us as donors

           and they as borrowers to proceed along fairly substantial

           innovative lines.

                        Now, I just happened to notice this morning a

           figure of a little analysis we had run.        This doesn't refer

           particularly to nonformal education, but it does to rural

           education.    And we had examined some 20 or 25 of the more
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                    105




           recent projects that the Board has passed or is about to see,

           in the education sector, -.;vi th a view to whether they had

           50 percent or more of the funds devoted to rural education.

           And just under 50 percent of those projects had over 50

           percent devoted to rural populations.

                         So I think very definitely there is a movement

            in the direction, in the actual lending and project formation

            in the direction of the lines laid down in the sector policy

            paper.

                         One other statistic, as you know, Hr. Chairman,

           we are conducting a review of the lending program, and we

            find that in the program for 1975-79 as compared with the

            program for '74-78 vlhich \vas included in the sector paper,

            there is a shift upwards in the lending for basic and

            primary education from 27 percent estimated for the five-

            year period to 40 percent in the field of basic and primary

            education.

                         HR. McNN·'lARA:   And within that field there is a

            shift, I am sure, towards the rural area, but I point out th

            although 50 percent of the projects Dr. Ballantine was

            ·talking about would have at least 50 percent of the money

            going for rural education.       At least 70 percent of the peopl

            are in those areas in 100 percent of the projects.
           II
STRICTLY        ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                       106



                               NR. BALLAN'l'INE:           Yes.

                               r•lR. jvlc~~Al·'lARl\.:   So He haven It I at least in these

                 very rough macro terms, we haven't gone as far probably as

                 we and others should.

                               One of the great characteristics of the developing

                 world is a maldistribution of educational services between

                 urban and rural areas, and there is no question in my mind

                 but What eLiS is affecting distribution of population,

                 distribution of income, quality of life.

                                l·1R. BALLANTINE:          I   should add one raore point to

                 give a balanced statement of the case, f'!r. Chairman, that

                 you recall and the Board may recall that in table 6 of that

                 paper tl1ere were statistics indicating the amount of money

                 w.;;   expected to lend per capita, and tha·t was grouped in the

                 five different income groups that we had used throughout the

                 paper, the two lovver being below $250 per capita.                 i\nd

                 that table shovled that there was certainly a bias, vle were

                 lending more to the relatively affluent countries, and vve

                 haven't eliminated that in the new calculation.                  There are

                 certain      built-in factors we haven't really got our finger

                 on yet.

                                t-IR. HcN.Ar1ARl-\.:     One otJ.1er point that is worthy of

                 mention for those Direcotrs who were not members of the Doard
STRICTLY ' ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                       107



           at the time we started the nonfor.mal education research.

           We initiated a major project in the world on nonformal

           education research, and this Bank financed the cost to the

           extent of what, Duncan, maybe $400,000?

                      MR. BALLANTINE:    Ultimately $300,000.

                      MR. McNAMARA:     $300,000 of research in nonformal

           education simply because of our belief that in the long run,

           and particularly for a society such as Ethiopia, there is

           no other answer to their problem.     7 percent literacy, as

           Mr. Jalil said, that means 93 percent are illiterate.

           80 percent of the children 6 to 11 years old are not in

           school.   In the year 2000, at least 85 percent of the people

           are going to be illiterate.    There is no way to deal with

           that other than through nonformal education.     So Mr.

           Ballantine and his associates have been working on this

           problem, and I will guarantee you we will have other proj ect

           of this kind before you.

                      Dr. Sen.

                      DR. SEN:   Mr. Chairman, I appreciate very much

           the statements we have just now heard from Dr. Ballantine

           and his two associates.    I appreciate also your comment that

           if we have to lift the lower 40 percent, well, education

           has the most important role to play.     And that is why I am
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                         108




           very much heartened by this project.     It is a most welcome

           project.     And this leads me to comment that that is why I am

           concerned about what was done in Kenya, because maybe the

           financial experts, the people in the elite, they in Kenya

           thought that, well, primary education, rural education,

           could be slowed down.

                        In Kenya, if education budget was cut down by

           cutting down the universities or higher education, well, I

           would have less concern.

                        I was wondering, in countries like Kenya where

           due to financial and other considerations education budget

           has to be cut down, Hhether introduction of the kind of

           educational policy that we are seeing in Ethiopia would

           llelp at least to minimize the damage, whether the Bank has

           given some thought to that.

                        Thank you.

                        HR. HcNANARA:   Yes, I think the answer is

           definitely yes, Dr. Sen.     We find in many, many developing

           countries an imbalance not only between rural and urban areas

           in education, but between university education and primary

           education.    Dr. Ballantine has emphasized on many occasions

           the necessity for redressing that balance, and particularly

           that is the case where the rate of growth of an educational
       STRICTL ICQNFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                 109




                                 expenditure program is being dampened down, as it was in

                                 Kenya.

                                               Mr. Clark!ii! .

                                                          . :
                                               .HR. CLAH.'<E     Thank you, Hr. Chairman.

                                               I certainly v1ould like to join Dr. Sen in

                                 congratulating the staff and the Bank in putting fon..rard this

                                 highly conunendable project, which is very much in line with

                                 all our thinking here and our policies and ideas on nonformal

                                 education.

                                               Further, ~rr. Chairman, it does seem to strongly

                                 support the land reform program which we have on the

                                 agricultural side of the Bank.         He have in fact spoken very

                                 strongly of the need in Ethiopia.

                                               I would like to follow, Mr. Chairman, if I may,

                                 on a point just raised here and which struck me even 0efore

                                 we just mentioned it a fev1 minutes ago al.lout the balance in

                                 the program, the educational program between the facilities

                                 that are being provided for on the rural education and other

                                 facilities.

                                               I notice, for instance, in the program listed in

                                 Annex 3, page 2, where the social science center is includeu

                                 at quite a sizable amount, so far as the project is concerned,

                                 $1.97 million.      This I really \.-onder hovr this does fit into


HOOVER REPORTING CO,INC.
320 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20002
(202) 546-6666
   STRICTLY lcONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                             llO



                                 the overall program that we have here which is, of course, a

                                 nonformal educational prograrn and really related to rural

                                 education.    And I think it really follows very much the point

                                 that was just made on the balance we are really striking.

                                 And particularly when one gets back to finding out what \ve

                                 are really trying to do in the social science center and that

                                 seems to be merely a consolidation of buildings or of program,

                                 really, construction operation which really doesn't seem to

                                 take us a great deal further in the educational field.

                                              :t-1y second point of, well, I might say concern, and

                                 this relates more generally to rionformal education projects.

                                 \oile are taking on here a very wide range of services here,

                                 all vlhich I thoroughly commend and applaud, but i t does

                                 raise the obvious question about how are we going to implement

                                 the supervision'?   What is the degree of coordination here?

                                 Of course, what is very relevant, Hr. Chairman, is the fact,

                                 of course, if we look back we find in the second education

                                 project and the third education, we do have some lags, and

                                 I do notice that we are trying to build in some strength into

                                 our implementation program.

                                              But to come back to the first point that when:! vle

                                 are putting in $1.97 million into social science center, I

                                 would have much preferred to have seen a stronger element into



HOOVER REPORTING CO. INC.
320 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20002
(202) 546-6666
     STRICTLY ICQNFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                    111




                                   the technical assistance program, which merely has something

                                   like $19,000 or something like that, rather than into the

                                   social science.    So perhaps I would like some clarification

                                   on those two points.

                                                Thank you.

                                                L·lR. McNAHARA:   Surely.

                                                Thank you.

                                                Hr. Jalil, first on social science, why $1.97 milli n?

                                   Hnat are they buying in terms of development for that?

                                                HR. JALIL:    It is ·true that this amount will really

                                   be used in constructing a buildirig       which will consolidate

                                   tile various social science faculties in one group, in one

                                   building, together with        a development research center tvhich

                                   conducts basic research which is rural oriented.

                                                So the request from the Government with regard to

                                   the social science center is also a very old pending request

                                   and we had our own worries with regard to the priority of

                                   this item.    i.loweve r, this -- they call it a na tiona 1 uni ve rs it

                                   no\v -- is practically the only university in Ethiopia, and

                                   this country is short of high quality manpower.          The Government

                                   has novl included a large part of the economy in the public

                                   sector, the Goverrunent is decentralizing the administration,

                                   it's sending to    ~1e   rural areas and the regions very many



HOOVER REPORTING CO. INC.
320 Massachusetts Avenue, N.L i!
Washington, D.C. 20002
(202) 546-6666
     STRICTLY                      ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                   112



                                   local administrators with power of coordination over

                                   development.   He believe that supply of quality manpower to

                                   Ethiopian development is important, even for execution of

                                   things like land reform and rural development.

                                               So I think these buildings -- these are really

                                   dilapidated, the buildings that were there were dilapidated.

                                   It could not house for any amount of time 700 students that

                                   make use of it, 5,000 extension students in the evening that

                                   make use of it.     And on balance, we think that ·this inclusion

                                   is not an unreasonable inclusion in the light of Ethiopian

                                   priorities in education.

                                               i·1R. HcHAHAHA:      Now, the second. point related to the

                                   wide range of activities being undertaken under this project

                                   and the difficulties of supervising and coordinating them.

                                   Hhat can you .say   \~i th   respect to that?

                                               NR. JALIL:        Implementation of a project with the

                                   main thrust in the rural areas is a matter of some concern, bu

                                   we have a project unit in Ethiopia which has been in charge of

                                      :)lementing the previous projects, and 'V7e have three - projects
                                   irn1

                                   H~   are also fortunate in having what is called an elementary

                                   school building unit which has received over the years
                                                                          '.'-:: / i.J~/1
                                   assis ·tance from Sweden under the €EDA assistance program.

                                   And this unit particularly has specialized in construction of



HOOVER REPORTING CO, INC.
320 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E. ~
Washington, 0.C. 20002
(202) 546-6666
      STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                 113



                                      rural primary schools, grain stores, and things like that,
                                 II
                                 li   based on a very flexible construction program under which

                                      selected skilled workers in                  a gang go out to ti1e village,

                                      mobilize local unskilled labor, obtain materials, get local

                                      contributions, and start up activities.                     The design is also

                                      very simple.

                                                         So \ve are in touch w1th. .    ~~w;; ,   and I have to say
                                                  C.:. ltd.
                                                  . ..-, Lit\
                                      that the -€EBA management has approved further assistance to

                                      this unit for the next two years in the amount of 35 million

                                      Swedish krona, which             ~10uld    have large amounts of technical

                                      assistance built in·to it, and in our execution of the diverse

                                      rural-oriented items in this project, we are counting on the

                                      DS13U   \vhich is an effective organization in rural areas, and

                                      which has in the last five years constructed 5,000 primary

                                      schools, in '72-73 alone it has constructed 1,500 primary

                                      schools.           In the project when it reaches the peak, we expect

                                      it to construct about 2,200.                  This is within the implementatio

                                      capacity of the           DSBU   and the project unit.

                                                         1-iR. HciJAI.
                                                                     ·,IARA:    Hr. Clarke is very right in

                                      emphasizing it is a complex project, and D1e particular part

                                      of i t that worried me, J'l.Ir. Clarke, is not so much the

                                      implementation during the disbursement stage, the supervision

                                      in the narrmv sense, but rather tb.e question of v7hether



HOOVER REPORTING CO.INC.
320 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E.
Washington, O.C. 20002
(202) 54~66
     STRICTL ICQNFIDENTIAL



                                 Ethiopia realizes the development advantage that the project

                                 is intended to give.       It goes back to Dr. Sen's emphasis on

                                 ne'"' projects, new initiatives.    And Dr. Ballantine's indicatio

                                 of experimentation, we are undertaking the emphasis on primary

                                 schools.   Is this contributing to development?      Education is

                                 good in itself, but that is not why \ve are financing it.      And

                                 we are going to have to introduce more follow-up into our

                                 education projects to check that.

                                               There is a reference, I think it's in this project,

                                 to the use of tracers, and that simply means evaluation of the

                                 impact of this educational project on development.       And over

                                 time I think the Board will see much more attention being give

                                 to that by the Bank.

                                               Hr. Green.

                                               HR. GREEN:    Hr. Chairman, we certainly actively

                                 support this project as a very good effort to assist in

                                 spreading education, particularly amongst the rural poor,

                                 and we commend the way the project is being developed by the

                                 Government of Ethiopia and the way the international community

                                 has helped.

                                               I notice in the papers that the survey that was

                                 made in 1972 or initiated in 1972, had been done with assistan e

                                 from the IDA funds, and I heard Dr. Ballantine say that most



HOOVER REPORTING CO,INC.
320 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20002
(202) 546-6666
     STRICTLY ICON Fl DENTIAL
                                                                                                          115




                                         of the   reco~nendations   had been carried out.   One of the
                                 I

                             !I          fairly important ones is mentioned here and that       was the

                                         reduction of the primary school cycle from six years to four

                                         years was not approved at that time, and in view of the size

                                         of the education budget in the total government revenues absor ing

                                         20 percent and the still very, very great needs to spread the

                                         education system as widely as possible, I am wondering what

                                         are the implications of not having adopted that particular

                                         recommendation of the survey.

                                                      My second question is prompted partly by the remark

                                         made by I!lr. Al-Atrash and Hr. Sen earlier in relation to Kenya

                                         the way they remarked that the education sector has a very tin

                                         foreign exchange segment, that we notice in this project if

                                         you add in the total effort running up to about $30 or is it

                                         $34 million-odd, $35 million-odd, that 30 percent of it is in

                                         foreign exchange.    What is the implication of this for otJ:1er

                                         projects in this sort of field in countries at this low level

                                         of development?     Is the ansvver that the project is pretty tiny

                                         in relation to the total education budget in a place like

                                         Ethiopia?    Or are v:1e going to see fairly heavy increments of

                                         foreign exchange in these sort of projects?

                                                      I1R. McNAHARA:   First, Nr. Jalil, what is the effect

                                         of failing to reduce tl1e primary cycle from six to four years?



HOOVER REPORTING CO, INC.
320 Massachusetts Avenue, tU .       t
                                     (

Washington, D.C. 20002
(202) 54&-6666
      STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                     116



                                                   MR. JALIL:   Frankly, sir, nothing.   The sector revi w

                                     had recommended a 4 plus 4 plus 4, which means 4 years of

                                     terminal education followed by a junior secondary level of

                                     4 years and a senior secondary level of 4 years, instead of

                                     what was the opinion at that time and what continues to be

                                     a 6-year primary cycle.

                                                   In terms of total number of school years, it does

                                     not mean much.     However, behind the sector review recommendati n,

                                     the idea was for most rural young children, education would

                                     terminate at what they call a minimum formation education of

                                     4 years, and beyond which they would go into life and

                                     activities.

                                                   However, there has been a lot of misunderstanding

                                     among the students, teachers, and parents       about this

                                     particular recommendation of the sector review, and perhaps

                                     the feeling was that education is being reserved for the elite

                                     and for urban dwellers,and for village people and rural

                                     people the period of available education in primary schools

                                     is being shortened.

                                                   In spite of that, the Government is keeping in view

                                     ultimately to implement the sector review recommendations and

                                     the schools that we are helping to build would have four

                                     classrooms, not six.       Perhaps at a later stage, the real


HOOVER REPORTING CO. INC.
320 Massachusetts A~enue, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20002
(202)546-6666                    1
      STRICTLY                        ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                     117




                                      intentions of the sector review recomraendations will be

                                      appreciated and it would be politically feasible for the

                                      Govermnent to implement them.

                                                 HR. HcNAHARA:      On the second issue, what is the

                                      implementation of the 30 percent foreign exchange content?

                                      Is that fairly standard or is it exceptional?

                                                 l'lR. JALIL:   I think this is in line wi tll our

                                      previous projects, but, sir, I would request Mr. Scearce to

                                      ans\ver.

                                                 HR. McNlll-1ARA:   Perhaps Dr. Ballantine could respon

                                      with respect to education projects in general.

                                                 Duncan, what is the foreign exchange content of

                                      education projects, roughly?

                                                 HR. BALLANTINE:      The foreign exchange content,

                                      I am sorry, I couldn't give you an accurate figure jut out of

                                      my head.   It varies too greatly.

                                                 MR. HcNAI·lARA:    He will check on that and send Hr.

                                      Green a comment.

                                                  I think you will find, Mr. Green, tha·t foreign

                                      exchange content averages at least 30 percent, but one

                                      implication is that we frequently do local cost financing on

                                      education projects on project grounds.

                                                 It is very close to one o'clock.      There are at lea t



HOOVER REPORTING CO, INC.
320 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E.   t
Washington, D.C. 20002
(202) 546-6666
                                 I!
      STRICTLY                               ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                               118



                                             two additional Directors who would like to speak to this.

                                             I would suggest we adjourn at this point, reconvene at 3

                                             this afternoon.       V~e   have other projects on our agenda.   He

                                             also have a meeting scheduled for Thursday, as you know, on

                                             IFC.   'f1e   could carry the rest of today' s agenda over to

                                             Thursday, but I rather hate to do that.          I don't wish to put

                                             pressure on IFC, and I know many of you would like to feel

                                             in a relaxed atmosphere when you discuss IFC projects.           So

                                             I would suggest we adjourn now, reconvene at 3 o'clock, pick

                                             up our discussion of this projec·t, at which time I will call

                                             first on I•lr. Reynolds and then Hr. Choi.

                                                             (Whereupon, at 12:38 p.m., the meeting was

                                             recessed to 3 p.m. the same day.)




HOOVER REPORTING CO. INC.
_320 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E.   1(·




Washington, D.C. 20002                  'I

(202) 546-6666
    STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                    ll~




arc fls                               AFTERNOON SESSION
arc:er
WrldBk                                                     ( 3:00 p.m. )
   5/27
                         MR. McNAMARA:   Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting

               will come to order, please.

                         As we adjourned for lunch, we were discussing a pro

               posed credit to Ethiopia for an education project.      I had two

               speakers, two Directors who had asked for the floor.        I will

               call on the first, Mr. Reynolds.

                         MR. REYNOLDS:   Mr. Chairman, I support the credit

               without difficulty.

                         I do note, though,that this is the third credit, I

               think, that we have approved in recent months for Ethiopia

               with the total amount coming to I believe $70 million or a

               little more.   And this, too, on top of quite a few projects

               approved in the last two or three years, rather few of which

               seem to me, at least looking at the disbursement record

               in Annex 2,to progress very far, yet.    And I am simply wonder

               ing therefore whether you could give us some assurance that w

               are not pressing at the moment beyond Ethiopia's present

               capacity to soundly implement projects in this magnitude?

                         Thank you.

                         MR. McNAMARA:   Yes.   Mr. Reynolds, this, of course,

               is a matter of concern to us, because of the political turmoi
    STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL                                                        .}
                                                                            1 <. v



arc 2          that has existed in the country for some months.

                         Mr. Husain has very carefully watched that and he

               and Mr. Knapp and I discussed together the likelihood that it

               will affect implementation of both our past projects and any

               future projects we may be considering.

                         So Mr. Husain, would you describe to the Board

               your appraisal of the present --

                         MR. HUSAIN:      Vie   have, Mr. Chairman, in the last yea

               made a very careful study, careful and continuing study of

               the situation in Ethiopia.       We have focused especially at

               two or three issues.

                         One, in this period of fundamental change, and I

               think what is happening in Ethiopia is fundamental change be-

               cause an old established order, it was a stable order, is bein

               replaced by something we don't know. And we wont know for a

               long, long time to come.

                         Obviously the old values, old institutions are chang

               ing, the entire institution of feudalism which had been the
                                                 '
               basis of the Ethiopian sociefty is changing, rew relationships

               are being created, new demands are being placed on the govern-
                                                                                      !
               ment machinery.

                         The new rulers of Ethiopia stand faceless.        There

               have been extermination of a substantial part of the higher

               echelons of what would normally have provided       t~   leadership
   STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                        l -.   ~-




arc 3          in government institutions.

                            So in this situation basically we have              to ask

               ourselves two questions:     One,   is meaningful economic develo -

               ment likely and possible in a situation like this?                     And

               secondly, what is the prospect for the implementation of Bank

               projects, Bank-IDA projects         IDA projects in this situation.

                            Now, on the first issue, there are things to be said! m

               two sides.     There is the civil war in   c-   t   d- \-·((•, which    makes it

               difficult if not impossible to undertake, for the government

               to undertake any meaningful economic effort in                / \ ;r·\·C'C~,

        ''
                            But if one looks at the rest of the country, despite

               the                 issue, the government has not been oblivious

               to economic and developmental issues.

                            I think one of the most significant things it has

               done is land reform. It will place tremendous burden on the

               government machinery.It will invoke tremendous opposition

               from the entrenched feudal class.      And yet this thing has

               been overdue.

                            It should have been done a long time ago,                 the

               change of relationship between the cultivator and land and

               the produce/ of the land.

                            So this is a fundamental economic change.
  STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL


arc 4                     Secondly, we are heartened by what the government is

             trying to do on the education side.     As you will remember,

             the earlier seeds of discontent more than a year ago started

             with the issues on education, so the government has shown a

             fair amount of courage, in assuming this issue.

                          So it is our feeling that despite violence in     a
                                                                                 '
             part of the country,     despite disorder in a part of the countrt,

             there is a basic undercurrent of concern with the welfare of        I
             the modern-day Ethiopians.     In some cases this current is

             broader than it has been in the past.     There is concern with

             the larger part of the population of Ethiopia than had been

             in the past.

                          The economic decision maKing was paralyzed for awhilr,

             but again in our day-to-day contact and dialogue we find that /

             it is reviving, the politicians and the civil servants a .c e

             making decisions affecting projects and programs and issues.

                          Bank projects, Bank projects, the implementation of

             Bank projects, our experience has been mixed with Ethiopia

             as in most of the countries that I deal with.

                          This is partly a function of the institutions, part-

              ly a function of the quality of manpower, the skills and

              training.

                          But the implementation of projects in Ethiopia on
    STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL


arc 5           an average has not been slow or worse than in most       African

                countries.

                             One of the reasons for the large undisbursed

                amounts here is that our lending to Ethiopia has been built up

                very substantially in the past two or three years, so most

                of the proJects are at least recent, and therefore the dis-

                bursements will take their normal course.

                             It doesn't mean we are not facing difficulties.       We

                are facing difficulty in some proJects.     But if one

                balances all the factors together, it was our Judgment that

                one should proceed with the normal work in Ethiopia, that at

                the time when the sort of changes that are taking place and

                some of these changes in a desirable direction, the with-

                drawal of IDA lending, or the suspension oi' IDA lending

                would be in many ways a signal to the progressive elements,

                people who are trying for economic change -- they should not            e

                trying for economic change.

                             So most of the ploJects we are working with are

                a part of this effort to broaden the economic base, the educa

                tion proJect is an excellent example of how the government is

                trying to broaden this economic base and our assistance in it.

                             We shall keep the situation under very careful obse va-

                tion.   We have a resident mission in Ethiopia consisting of
 STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                          1'' /

arc 6        two people who are constantly on the go, to Keep monitoring

             and appraising the economic and developmental situation as

             well as to coo~rdinate with the government the implementation

             of the proJects.

                           So at the moment we are continuing our normal work

             in Ethiopia, preparation of projectsj but, of course, as we

             go along, as we look at new proJects, we shall have to review

             the implementation possibility, on every occasion we shall do '

             that.

                           MR. McNAMARA:   Thank you.

                           I think Ethiopia, both as it was before the politica

             change and as it has been since, illustrates one of our most

             difficult problems.

                           Mr. Husain characterized it before the political

             change as a feudal society.       Certainly the necessity for land

            reform was clear.       It was questionable whether maJor economic

             progress could be made without it.

                           We considered terminating lending until it occurred,

             it appeared to be such a fundamental requirement.

                           But it seemed unlikely that it could occur without

            maJor political change.

                          We pressed on the government the necessity for land

            ref on;: ,   but we were not sufficiently persuasive or they weren't
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                  ,, .
                                                                      1 --



arc 7      sufficiently powerful to carry it out without the major

            political change.

                        In any event, because of the--I will call it the

            feudal character of the society, we seriously question :~

           whether we should continue lending before the change.        Any

            change that might occur of sufficient magnitude to make --

            overthrow the feudal characteristics of that society possible

           was almost certain to be disorderly.

                        The change has occurred.   It has been disorderly.     I

            is disorderly.     It has brought about land reform.   Should we

            now terminate lending?

                        These are very important questions and by phrasing

            them I don't mean to suggest the answer is clear.

                        But we have concluded that even thoughfuere is

            dis order     and even perhaps worse than the disorder, there is

            uncertainty -- we can't predict what the situation will be

            tomorrow, or certainly not during the years of implementation

            of this proJect.     But we have concluded that so long as it          1




           appears to us that the economic policies are moving the countrr

            in the right direction, and so long as our proJect is ciosely

           associated with those, and so long as there is a reasonable

            probability though certainly not a certainty     that it can be

            implemented, we should present it to you and that is the basis/
    STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



arc 8          on which we have presented this project to you, and it is on

               the basis on which we are dealing with other countries in simi

               lar positions.

                         Mr. Choi.

                         MR. CHOI:   Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                          I fully support this very interesting education pro-
                                                  \¥ h J v<,\-+iv-e..
               ject.   It contains a number of in~p@rativ~ elements which

               have been already referred to by previous speakers.

                          I would like to touch on two points.              The first

               one relates to curriculum development embracing revision of
                                                                        /
               both primary and secondary school curriculaj, which would

                place emphases on practical subjects such as agriculture,

               handicraft, commercial training.       It is also, let me say

                this revision will be carried out by qualified teachers

               selected from the schools and training will also be given to

                the teachers in the use of the new teaching material.

                          This is a very worth while effort and would make

                teaching in schools more relevant to the environment of

                the students concerned.

                          The question is whether there is a sufficient sup-

                ply of teachers of tre type required for the revision of the

                curricula( and the writing of new textbooks and also for the

                training of teachers needed.
  STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



ate 9                    Tte second point I wish to raise is prompted by the

              discussion this morning on the     curb~   on the growth of

              education expenditure in connection with the program loan for

              Kenya.

                          In the Ethiopian   project~    I know that attempts are

              to be made to reduce the cost of providing education and at

              the same   time~   to improve the quality.    However, an expansion

              program in education is inevitably associated with substantia

              increase in recurrent costs whenthe program is completed.

                          The question I want to raise here is whether ade-

              quate provisions have been made by the Ethiopian authorities

              for increased recurrent costs so that the programs can be

              maintained and whether such increase is within the budgetary

              capabilities.

                          In fact, this question has a more general applicati n

              in education projects.

                          In asking this question, I would like to emphasize

              that I am strongly ins upport of expanding both the quality

              as well as the quantity of education in developing countries.

                          Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                          MR. McNAMARA:    Thank you, Mr. Choi.

                          First, Mr. Jalil, will there be a sufficient supply

              of teachers, to both revise the curriculum and to teach the
    STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                             128



arc 10         new curriculum?

                           MR. JALIL:   Mr. Chairman, for this part of the

               question,    I would request you to call Mr. Loken.

                           MR. McNAMARA:     Sure.

                           Mr. Loken.

                           MR. LOKEN:   Mr. Chairman, in the preceding two pro-

               Jects,    there~    been maJor expendi,ures included in the pro-

               Jects for   the~aining   or   primary school teachers.

                           The third education proJect and the second educati o

               proJect items onteacher training are Just now getting under

               way, that is the construction is Just now starting.

                           The combined results of these new institutions will ,

               if anything, give them an oversupply of primary teachers.

                           It depends entirely on how fast the self-help

               primary school building proJects get under way. If they are

               only able to build the school s that are included in our out-

               line of the project here plus those which will be        bui~by


               the Swedish program by 1980, there will begin to be an over-

               supply.

                           So there is no question of the numbers of trained

               primary teachers.

                           Secondly, they are reducing the number of years of

               training for the primary school teachers, bringing them in at
 STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



arc 11       a slightly lower level of previous education, which in turn

             will have the effect of reducing the salary levels, which give

             you more teachers at a little less cost than has been the

             case he ret of ore.

                              So in terms of numbers and in terms of quality,

             I think there is very little question but they can meet these

             goals.

                              MR. McNAMARA:         Mr. Jalil,    with respect to Mr. Choi's

             second question, has provision been made in future budgetary

             planning for the obvious increase in current costs that would

             be associated with          thi~      expansion?

                              MR.   JALIL:        As is stated in the President's report,

             Ethiopia spends about 20 percent of its total governmenL
             f€(Uf!--<2/·,t
             -~·expenditures                 on     education, and as a result of the

             educational strategy and plans that the government has for

             the next few years, this proportion is likely to go up to abo t

             25 percent in 1984.

                              Now, what proportion of the government's expenditur
                   cvi:i;-LV~k
             is -a     decH~ant,     I don't know how to answer this question.

             excepting it does reflect the government's priority that the

             government attaches to education.                   It does reflect that
             E
            ....ethiopia starts with a very low education base, it does re-

             fleet that manpower              is a serious constraint.       I mean, the
  STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                           130




arc 12       economy must spend money to train up its own people.

                               Whereas, this is so, and financing of education \·ec\>.\ .e..~,,\

             expenditure has not been a problem in the past, and

             assuming the fiscal situation developing as it is,                                        the serious

              look the government is giving to restructuring its situation i

             the light of the new public ownership, we do not believe that

             there will be any less commitment on the part of the governme

              towards financing this important sector.                                       But more than that,

             more than          th~l~ocation                    of resources, the government is increas-

              ingly watchful of its expenditures and trying to get more

              mileage, more efficiency out of what it spends.

                                This is a part of a continuing dialogue between the

              Bank and the government insofar as capital expenditures are
                                                          Y.-e. c Q'r-r·\ nq_
              concerned, so far as                         FCeer~expenditures               are concerneo, and
                                    A~J,\-\VIC1
              we hope     to~                     supervision of this project and other projects.

                                    In short, that government money is more economicall

              spent.

                                    One part of the savings we really say should be
                        u ·:, t:_      A'     l I DCC-
              through     ~ser            loe~material,                         simple building designs, contribu

              tions by the people in construction, perhaps an expansion of

              facilities which we set up.
                                                    \--{:_(\)..._~
                                    On the          -~             side \4Je believe that teacher training
   STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                131


arc 13         and teacher salaries, the teacher-to-pupil ratio allows

               in Ethiopia considerable scope for cost reduction measures.

               Government has agreed with us during negotiation, as part of

               the credit     development, that government spends for cost

               reduction measures so to be a subject of review in consulta-

               tion with this association.

                            MR. McNAMARA:        Thank you, sir.

                            Yes , Mr • Ch oi .

                            MR. CHOI:     Mr. Chairman, on the question of supply

               of qualified teachers, I have no doubt that the previous

               projects would provide numbers.           But I was just wondering

               whether they were trained in the way to do a new type of teac -

               ing?   That is the crux of my question.

                          And on the question of recurring expenditure, while

               there are all these cost reducing methods and of course it ls

               within the right of the Ethipian government, or any government

               for that matter, to decide what amount of its national income

               it should spend on education, I was wondering in educational

               projects whether we should not project the recurring costs fo

               the future, so that the governments which are undergoing this

               expansion of education would know the implications.

                         It is awfully easy to implement expansion in educa-

               tion, but very much more difficult to maintain it.
 STRICTLY   NFIDENTIAL
                                                                           i.:.J.:



arc 14                Thank you.

                      MR. McNAMARA:    On the latter point first, Mr.

            Jalil, have we projected or has the government projected its

            future recurring costs associated with thfu project?

                      MR. JALIL:   Yes, Mr. Chairman.     In para 39, page
                                                     u Th t:- ~ c u wilt
                                                                    -t·1 h t.\.h ce...
            12, of the President's report, we say:      ~est and    finance

            implications of this expansion have been worked out in detail,

            assuming that no    new taxes have   to be introduced, and that

            total government recurrent expenditure in '74 prices will grow

            by no more than 7.5 percent, total public expenditures in

            education, in training, and all ministries and agencies in

            '74 prices will reach 25 percent of government budget by 1984,"

            which I had stated earlier.

                      MR. McNAMARA:    I think this is directly related to

            Mr. Choi's point.
                      He is quite correct in emphasizing the re cessity fo

            looking at the financial implications of investment, particul,rl:

            operating costs -- not Just for education, by the way, but

            for all projects.    Anj that is a standard part of our finan-

            cial analysi:s.

                      Secondly, perhaps Mr. Loken would come to the table

            again and respond to this.

                       Mr. Choi's concern, Mr. Loken, was not .Just quantit
  STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                        13~3




arc 15        or even quality, in the sense of general ability, but ra the c

              will the teachers be prepared to teach the new curriculum?

                        MR. LOKEN:   Yes, Mr. Chairman.   I am sorry I didn't

              get into that in more det•il.

                        The curriculum reform program, which is associated

              with this project, includes in it a large element of costs

              and time, which has to do with the retraining of present

              teachers, retraining of present teacher trainers, and tm

              reorganization of the teacher training curriculum, both in

              service and preservice training programs.

                        This is being carried out by a team of about 150

              university teacher training and school educators.

                        There is a good deal of bilateral assistance,

              particularly from ODA or ODM, assisting on the teacher traini

              and curriculum revision.

                        The program is a very well planned program in    th~t


              each element, each grade level is completed, those teachers a e

              brought in, they are retrained on this new material, they are

              then sent back to the job with a circulating crew of teacher

              trainers in the field to give them direct on-the-Job assistan

                        A third bacKup on this is the Academy of Pedagogy,

              which was provided for in one of the earlier education projec

              and in this academy all the long-range planning is being done,
     STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                13 4


arc 16          for both teacher training and for curriculum development.

                So you have a very well organized and well thought through

                program, not only for curricular reform, but the introduction

                of these new types of teaching, new course materials, new

                subJect materials.
                            As the reforms are made, the teachers are taught to

                adJust to these reforms and to teach the new material.

                            MR. Me NAMARA :       ThanK you, sir •

                            Mr. Gavidia.

                            MR. GAVIDIA: ThanK you, Mr. Chairman.
                              s~~f=b
           ..               I~ upon this proJect because I thinK it will
                                              I
                help the   economic ~
                                    - Wn~~~~~           social development of Ethiopia.
                                 I -f-hihk
                            --l:ri the er i8i ft this proJect has been prepared along
                                            +he_ Bll.hk
                the lines set out by the BanK, .,.... policies.

                            I have the same concern         that Mr. Choi mentioned m

                expenditures, the .. quest1on of expenditures, but I still thinK

                something has to be done to assure that the allocation of

                education   expend1tur~    currently education expenditure be

                enough to meet all demand that the construction of all these

                physical facilities will present.
                                                                       I~S
                            I have the experience in some countg Where I have
                                                                                       y
                been working and I think this is a problem, you              KnO~~)fo

                have the school buildings, but you don't have teachers, you d n 't
    STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                                                            •. ·
                                                                                                             1 ·-
                                                                                                                  ~

                                                                                                                       v




arc 17
                                           (,)v
                         i    thin!: this is very important point that has to be
                                           I'

               taken into account.

                         On the other hand, you Know, as Mr.                              ~ Re~~r.oiL
               mentioned, Ethiopia has been getting many loans in recent

               months, and according to the information given in the Annex 2,

               page l, both the second and third education projects have not

               been fully disbursed.
                                           C)d ~
                                                  ,_,   c·· k\.,
                                                         ~'\, \'• '-"
                                                                        Y\:7
                         For example, the lean lt017Pr, that was approved in

               1973, but effective in 1974,is still undisbursed am the same
                                      Ec\L-"- c ('.-\io \1 ] (
               happened with education, ~' which still has more than half

               of the total.

                          I imagine that one of the problems that Ethiopia

               is facing is a lack of enough capable personnel, you know, fo

               managing this project.

                          In this report, in the President's report, page 19,

                it is stated that the execution of the project is guaranteed

               by the presence of an experienced                 eng~neer                manag1        er, and
                                   v; i-\1,                             tJ~ __ o. dII'\\ h 1 s -h ,..: to'r .SJ
               an adequatJjstafftA ~                                ngineers~architects.
                         This is another problem that I would like to point

                out.

                             In many cases when we just trust in one person, if

                this person goes out, the project suffers a lot.
  STRICTLY C NFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                13 ~·




arc 18                    So I just want to point out that all these diffi-
                                                         !     L
                                                         l)t.J.L
             cul ties 1 -tha-t.. They could be solved, the Bank has to do somethi g
                                                         "
             to be sure that beside this trained personnel, they should get--

             I mean the    governmen~)should    get more personnel, just in case

             these employees leave.
                                                                                        '
                                                                         H-o ;<::.c.+~~cl
                          Finally, I think even that it is ~~G-te4-- that 25
                               "1,
                              ·\:':'f
             percent will befl.education expenditures by 1984, as you men-

             tioned, apparently, you know, according to the figures, from

             1970-71, to 1973/1974, according to \.~~7-~ex lst, page 2, there
             the increase has been very little,          .y-ou--·K-fte'W-;   small.         It has

             gone from 19 to 21.4.

                          So according to the circumstances, and taKing into

             account that all expenditures has to be pressing on the

             budget~).~i{;) b~f'~u~C:+theoretical,
                     (\
                                                     you know.               -&e-   I am not

             pessimistic, but I think the Bank in giving this loan should

             keep its eyes on the execution of this project.

                          Thank you.

                          MR. McNAMARA:     Thank you.

                          I very much agree with you.

                          As I said earlier, the situation in the future is d

             ficult to predict.         We do believe there is a sufficiently hig

             probability that this project can be carried out successfully

             to warrant presenting it to you.         But we should not overlook
 STRICTLY C NFIDENTIAL
                                                                             .
                                                                         "=• 1
                                                                       l ..._;.
                                                                       -~




arc 19      the risks associated with the current political disorders

            and the uncertainty as to the direction in which the politica

            structure will move.

                      But the question with respect to the implementation

            on Ethiopian projects, I think M1·. Husain has pointed out to

            you that it is only in recent years that we have significantl

            expanded our lending to Ethiopia.   The particular education

            project Mr. Gavidia pointed to took 14 months to make effecti

            it didn't become effective until a few months ago, August

            1974 I think.
                      The reason for the long delay in making it effectiv

            was exactly the political disorders we referred to which in-

            valved students and agitation, and inability of the parliamen

            to focus on ratification of loans which was required under

            its laws at that time.   And therefore the Boru·d passed the

            project in June or July of 1973, but it was only 14 months

            later, in August or September of 1974, as I say six or eight

            months ago, that it became effective.

                      Hence, the delay in disbursing.

                      The question is should one proceed under those

            circumstances or not?    I think that with hindsight, it was

            wise thatwe went ahead, because that project has influenced

            this one and both of them combined will begin to deal with
        STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL

  arc 20           this absolutely fundamental problem in Ethiopia which is the

                   lack of literacy and at a sufficiently high level to support

                   even a modest economic advance.    And the lack of trained pers

                   nel to direct the investment.

                             And, of course, the lack of external funds, one of

                   the reasons why we have expanded Bank group lending in Ethio

                   in recent years is that Ethiopia is a country among those wi

                   the lowest per capita receipts of external funds, even though

                   it is one of those in greatest need.

                             Are there others who wish to speak to this?

                              If not, we will proceed with it, then, and turn to
it.6
~xxxx              agenda item number 6, proposed loan in the amount of $30 mil-

                   lion ...amT- equivalent for small and medium   industries financi

                   proJect in the Philippines, and I will ask Mr. Steel to pre-

                   sent this to us.
