CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 553 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Education Project)
BETWEEN
ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 4, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 553 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Education Project)
BETWEEN
ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 4, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 4, 1975, between ETHIOPIA (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the term "Project Unit" means the Project Unit
of the Construction and Maintenance Department of the Borrower's Ministry of
Education.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-three million dollars
($23,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed


﻿4
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March I and
September I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March I and September 1 commencing
September 1, 1985, and ending March 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on March 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project or cause the same
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and educational practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   Without derogating from the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower
shall provide supplemental budgetary allocations to cover the cost of customs duties
and taxes for goods, materials and equipment to be imported for the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in design and supervision
of construction of Part A(ix) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ architectural
and engineering experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.


﻿5
(b)   Design and supervision of construction of the secondary schools, the
forestry ranger training center, the cooperative training center, the health assistant
training centers, and the home economics department of the Ambo Institute of
Agriculture included in the Project shall be carried out by the Project Unit.
(c)   Design and supervision of construction of the primary schools, radio
transmitter stations, community skill training centers and the rural development
centers included in the Project shall be carried out by the Elementary School
Building Unit (hereinafter ESBU) under the direction of the Project Unit.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for comments,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, designs, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules, including master lists of
construction materials, furniture and equipment for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall. furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction and operation of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly


﻿6
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. Site locations for the primary and secondary schools and for
the community skill training centers and for the cooperative training center included
in the Project shall be determined in accordance with criteria acceptable to the
Association.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall execute the (i) curriculum development program, (ii) radio program
development, and (iii) force account construction work included in the Project
in accordance with annual plans of work and budgets in respect thereof submitted
to the Association prior to the beginning of each fiscal year of the Borrower.
Section 3.08. Training of instructors and skill training courses in the
community skill training centers included in the Project will be carried out in
accordance with a plan acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.09. From time to time the Borrower shall exchange views with
the Association concerning education evaluation methodology and submit to the
Association for its review and comments evaluation reports on the work oriented
adult education program carried out under the Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall from time to time review with the
Association its policies and plans for introducing cost reduction measures in the
education sector.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall advance funds as required on a quarterly
basis to be administered by the Project Unit for carrying out force account work,
and meeting Project administration and curriculum-radio program development costs
under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained,
records adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿7
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit and the ESBU to: (i) have
their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, by auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Project Unit
and the ESBU and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the educational institutions and
facilities included in the Project to be adequately insured (or make other provisions
satisfactory to the Association in lieu thereof) against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall at all times make or cause to be made
available, promptly as needed, all funds and other resources required for the
effective utilization, staffing and operation of the educational institutions and
related facilities included in the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the physical plant and equipment of the
educational institutions and related facilities included in the Project to be
adequately maintained and repaired, and to that end shall make available, or cause
to be made available, promptly as needed, all funds and other resources as shall
be required for the adequate maintenance of such educational institutions and
related facilities.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the educational institutions and
related facilities included in the Project to be operated so as to promote the
educational objectives of the Borrower.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall review with the Association prior to
implementing plans for (i) introducing any substantial change in the structure or
operational procedures of the Project Unit and, (ii) any new appointment to the
position of manager of the Project Unit.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date of September 30, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿8
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and IV
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance,
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Cable address:
MINFINANCE
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿9
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
ETHIOPIA
By /s/ Ato Ghebeyehou Mekbib
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit of each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works                    8,900,000          80%
(2)   Construction                   4,300,000           100% of foreign
materials                                          expenditures or
80% of local
expenditures
(3)   Professional                     190,000           80%
services (Archi-
tectural/Engi-
neering)
(4)   Furniture                       1,600,000
(a)   directly                                     100% of foreign
imported                                     expenditures
(b)  locally manu-                                 85% of local
factured (ex-                                expenditures
factory)
(c)  imported goods                                60% of local
purchased                                    expenditures
locally


﻿11
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)   Instructional and              2,000,000
Other Equipment
(a)  .directly                                     100% of foreign
imported                                      expenditures
(b)   locally manu-                                85% of local
factured (ex-                                expenditures
factory)
(c)  imported goods                                60% of local
purchased                                    expenditures
locally
(6)   Curriculum/Radio                1,350,000          80% of local
Program Development                                expenditures
(7)   Project Adminis-
tration
(a)   equipment and              200,000           100% of foreign
vehicles                                     expenditures
(b)   salaries and              1,000,000          80% of local
operational                                  expenditures
expenses
(8)   Technical                        190,000           100%. of foreign
Assistance                                         expenditures
(9)   Unallocated                    3,270,000
TOTAL         23,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and


﻿12
(b)   the term  "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding   the allocation  of an  amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to assist in the implementation of a broad program of basic
and specialized education with major emphasis on expanding and improving
opportunities in remote rural areas of the Borrower with a view to increased
participation of the rural population in the development process and improving
productivity.
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.    The construction, furnishing and equipment of: (i) about 550 four-classroom
schools (2,200 primary school classroom units), (ii) 15 junior secondary
schools, (iii) 8 senior secondary schools, (iv) 100 Community Skill Training
Centers, (v) 3 Health Assistant Training Centers, (vi) a Forest Ranger Training
Center, (vii) a Home Economics Department at the Ambo Institute of
Agriculture, (viii) 24 Awraja Rural Development Centers, (ix) a Social Science
Center for the National University, (x) 9 radio transmission stations including
supporting and servicing facilities, and (xi) a cooperative training center.
B.    The revision of general education curricula, development of textbooks and
educational radio programs and retraining of teachers.
C.    The provision of two man-years of specialist services and ten-and-a-half
man-years of fellowships.
D.    Operational Expenses for Project Administration.
Further details of the Project are set forth in the Annex hereto.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1981.


﻿14
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
A.   List of Institutions
Approximate Number
Institution                           Location                 of Student Places
Primary Schools (about                Sites to be selected               110,000
550 four-classroom
schools or 2,200 class-
room units)
Junior Secondary Schools                    "                             3,600
(15)
Senior Secondary Schools                                                  2,560
(8)
Community Skill Train-                                                    3,000
ing Centers (100)
Health Assistant                      Yabelo (Sidamo)                      120
Training Centers (3)                  Woldiya (Wello)                       120
Shambo (Wollega)                     120
Forest Ranger Train-                  Menagesha                             40
ing Center (1)
Home Economics                        Ambo                                  40
Department (1)
Cooperative Train-                    Site to be selected                    80
ing Center (1)
Awraja Rural Devel-                                                        Not applicable
opment Centers (24)
Social Science Center (1)             Addis Ababa                          720
Radio Transmission                    Sites already selected              Not applicable
Stations (9)
B.   Technical Assistance
1.   Specialists
Community Skill Training Centers
Intermediate Technology Specialist                              24 man-months
2.   Fellowships
(a)  Community Skill Training Centers
Intermediate Technology                                          6 man-months
(b)  Home Economics Department,
Ambo Institute of Agriculture
(i)        Nutrition and Food Technology                          2 man-vears
(ii)       Clothing and Home Crafts                               2 man-years
(iii)      Home Management and Child Care                         2 man-years
(c)  Cooperative Training Center
(i)        Rural Consumer Cooperatives                            2 man-years
(ii)       Rural Marketing Cooperatives                           2 man-years


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts for civil works, equipment
and imported construction materials shall be let under procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    The following procurement procedures will apply in respect of the works,
furniture and equipment listed hereunder:
(i)         the construction of primary schools, radio transmission stations,
community skills training centers, and the rural development
centers would be by departmental forces (force account) utilizing
the services of the ESBU;
(ii)        civil works costing less than US$200,000 equivalent each would
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
in accordance with local procedures:
(iii)       furniture and equipment contracts costing less than US$40,000
equivalent each would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with local procedures-
and
(iv)        locally procured construction materials would be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with local procedures.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
I.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded, and (iii) the


﻿16
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Etiopia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Ethiopia if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Ethiopia equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Ethiopia.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 1 5% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award,
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿17
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Contractors
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works costing more than $200,000
equivalent each included under Category I of the table set forth in Schedule I
to the Credit Agreement, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2%
to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required    to prequalify  as provided in the
Guidelines referred to in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part of the
information for qualification, such information, including details of ownership, as
shall be required to determine whether, according to the classification established
by the Guarantor and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of
firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly
indicate the preference and the method that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions bY Association
I.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
infcrm the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part C.1
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.


﻿18
With respect to all contracts for civil works, estimated to cost the equivalent
of $200,000 or more, and all contracts for equipment and imported construction
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


