Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL IUSE ONLY
Report No. 8969
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHAD
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 811-CD)
AUGUST 20, 1990
Unesco
Education Financing Division
Paris, July 1989
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
APE         Associations de parents d'6dlves (Parents' Associations)
BET         Bureau des Etudes et des Textes (Studies and Textbooks Office)
CEG         College d'Enseignement General (General Secondary School)
CNT         Commission Nationale Tchadienne pour l'Unesco (Chadian National
Commission for Unesco - CNT/Unesco)
COFORPA     Cooperation Technique Rdgionale pour la Formation et la Recherche
en Planification et Administration de 1'Education (Regional
Technical Cooperation for Training and Research on Educational
Planning and Administration)
CRFC        Centre Regional de Formation Continue (Regional Center for In-
Service Training)
DAAFM       Direction.des Affaires Administratives, Financieres et du Iatdriel
(Directorate for Administrative and Financial Affairs and
Equipment)
DEE         Direction de l'Enseignement Eldmentaire (Directorate for Primary
Education)
DES         Direction de l'Enseignement Secondaire (Directorate for Seeondary
Education)
DETP        Direction de l'Enseignement Technique et Professionnel
(Directorate for Technical and Vocational Education)
DG/MEN      Direction Gdndrale de l'Education Nationale (Directorate General
for National Education)
DNPE        Direction Nationale des Projets d'Education (National Directorate
for Education Projects) - new name for project unit adopted in
October 1987
DPE         Direc:ion des Projets d'Education (Directorate for Education
Projects) - name of project unit prior to October 1987
EDF         European Development Fund
ENI         Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs (Primary Teacher Training School)
ENS         Ecole Normale Supdrieure (Secondary Teacher Training S-hool)
FAC         Fonds d'Aide et de Coopdration (French bilateral assistance
agency)
FRG         Federal Republic of Germany
IDA         International Development Association
IEE         Inspection Principale de l'Enseignement Elementaire (Regional
Primary Education Inspectorate)
ILO         International Labour Office
INSE        Institut National des Sciences de l'Education (National Institute
of Educational Sciences)
LTI         Lycee Technique Industr'el (Industrial and Technical Secondary
School), N'Djamdna
MEN         Ministere de l'Sducation Nationale (Ministry of National
Education)
TA          Technical assistance
Unesco      United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington., D.C. 20433
US A.
Olk o Oiu,ctwGouna
August 20, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Chad Third Education Project
(Credit 811-CD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Chad Third Education Project (Credit 811-CD)" prepared by UNESCO.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restficted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfonrance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 811-CDX
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Pag-e No.
Preface    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .  .    .   .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .i
Evaluation Summary    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ii
PART ONE,
1.  Project Identification   . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.  General Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
3.  Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . .                2
4.  Project Design and Organization    . . . . . . .                3
5.  Implementatiion of the Substitution Project                     7
6.  Project Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               12
7.  Durability of Project Results  . . . . . . . . .               17
8.  Overview of IDA Actions    . . . . . . . . . . .               18
9.  Overview of Borrower Actions   . . . . . . . . .               20
10.  Relationships under the Project  . . . . . . . .               21
11.  Consultant Services    . .    . . . . . . . .   .              21
12.  Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . .               23
PART TWO   Analysis Prepared by the Borrower    . . . . . .                24
1.  Design and Objective   . . . . . . . . . . . . .               24
2.  Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               25
3.  Impact of Project on National Development    . .               30
4.  Lessons to be Drawn    . . . . . . . . . . . . .               30
PART THREE
1.  Project Timetable    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               31
2.  Credit Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . .               31
3.  Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . .               32
4.  Project Costs and Financing    . . . . . . . . .               33
5.  Project Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               38
6.  Fulfillment of Conditions    . . . . . . . . . .               39
7.  Use of IDA Resources   . . . . . . . . . . . . .               40
List of Annexes   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rtecipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worild Bank authorization.



i
CHAD
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 811-CD).
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
1.          The Third Education Project for the Republic of Chad was financed
by the International Development Association (IDA) under Credit Agreement
No. 811-CD signed on October 3, 1978 in the amount of 8.3 million United
States dollars, of which only $600,000 was actually disbursed in the form of
an initial advance before the credit was canceled in 1979. A substitution
credit agreement was signed on May 28, 1985 in the same amount of US$8.3
million, of which $7.86 million will have been disbursed by the closing date
(including the $600,000 initial advance), and approximately $437,000 will be
canceled. Project implementation was completed on December 31, 1988, and the
credit accounts were closed on June 30, 1989, three years after the date
originally set.
2.          On the invitation of the Government of the Republic of Chad, and
pursuant to the terms of the cooperation agreement concluded between Unesco
and the World Bank, a Unesco project completion mission visited Chad from
June 20 to July 2, 1989. The mission was made up of Messrs. Fran9ois Dugast
(economist-architect, consultant and mission leader) and Jacques Duriau
(educator, consultant). The mission members participated in working meetings
with senior Chadian officials and visited the educational establishments
covered by the project. Prior to the mission, Mr. Dugast had visited IDA's
Washington headquarters for a preliminary study of the project files and for
discussions with IDA officials responsible for the project. The present
report has been prepared on the basis of information gathered, observations in
the field, examination of documents and discussions with project partners.
The second part of the report has been drafted by the Government in accordance
with the new procedure for project completion reports. A preliminary version
of this report has been discussed with the financing agency, and its comments
have been taken into account in preparing the present report. However, the
opinions expressed and conclusions reached in this report are based on the
mission's own observations. They do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Government or those of IDA or Unesco.
3.          The mission wishes to express its thanks to members of the
Government and the staff of IDA for their assistance in preparing the report,
more particularly senior Chadian officials and the staff of the National
Directorate for Education Projects.



ii
CHAD
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 811-CD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Proiect Objectives and Descrintion
i.          The Third Education Project, appraised by IDA in 1978, was
designed to assist the Chadian Government in resolving some of the more
pressing problems relating to primary education infrastructure and the
curricula for technical secondary schools, and to lay the groundwork for the
future development of the education sector. As a result of the disturbances
that swept the country, the project had to be abandoned in February 1979,
after having been signed in June 1978. A credit substitution agreement was
signed in May 1985, on the basis of a project preparation document dated
October 1984; this new agreement replaced the original agreement. As defined
in the Credit Agreement, the substitution project consisted of the following:
(a)   Primary Education:  (i) rehabilitation of primary teacher training
schools (ENIs) in Sarh and Moundou; and (ii) distribution of educational
materials to all primary schools.
(b)   Secondary Technical Education and Vocational Training:  rehabilitation
of the Lycee Technique Industriel (LTI) in N'Djamdna.
(c) Management and Planning of Education: (i) strengthening of the Project
Unit through the provision of auxiliary personnel (consultants),
furniture, equipment and supplies; and (ii) strengthening of the
Educational Statistics and Planning Unit of the Ministry of National
Education (MEN) through the provision of equipment, consulting services
and fellowships to support the development of, inter alia, primary
education, teacher training and technical/vocational training.
Imolementation and Results
ii.         Management of the project remaining generally unsatisfactory until
the Direction Nationale des Projets d'Education (DNPE - National Directorate
for Education Projects) was established in November 1987 and a new Director
was appointed, whereupon the planned technical assistance began to be used.
The shortcomings within the old Direction des Projets d'Education (DPE -
Directorate for Education Projects) related in particular to poor bookkeeping.
failure to observe bidding procedures, and the absence of coordination and
consultation with project beneficiaries. Two years were lost as a result, and
the project closing date had to be twice postponed.
iii.        All of the material elements making up the project components were
completed. However, project implementation was not entirely satisfactory, as
only three fourths of the textbooks purchased were distributed to three
schools out of four; rehabilitation of the LTI was not based on the syllabus,
which is only now under study; and the review of curricula and course content
and the process of educational planning have not been carried out. The major
discrepancies are to be found in five areas: (i) implementation schedule:
the closing date had to be twice extended, first on October 13, 1986 from



iii
December 3, 1986 to December 31, 1987, and then again on December 30, 1987 to
December 31, 1988; (ii) cost increases for certain project components;
(iii) increase in IDA's share of primary teacher remuneration; (iv)
establishment, under an April 1986 amendment to the Credit Agreement, of a
special account for categories 2 (furniture, equipment and vehicles) and 5
(operating costs); and (v) withdrawal of anticipated Cerman bilateral
assistance and its replacement by Italian aid.
Primary education
iv.         The two ENIs were rehabilitated, equipped and furnished; their
capacity was raised from 150 to 300 students, and instruction is now being
provided under proper conditions. The educational materials distributed in
the primary schools have been sufficient to provide, on average, one child in
three with needed textbooks. Payment of a contribution toward teacher
salaries has not only preserved human potential but also remotivated the
teaching corps.
Technical education
v.          Rehabilitation of the LTI and the equtipping of workshops has
allowed 84 students to prepare for the "Baccalaureat Fl" and 39 students for
the "CAP de techniciens" in a number of different subjects. While it is still
difficult at this juncture to gauge the scope of the measures taken, the
quality of the equipment suggests that the effect on education will be
positive.
Statistics/vlanning and institutional strengthening
vi.         Although it has not been possible to prepare a school map,
measures taken under the project have ensbled statistical data to be collected
regularly and published annually, thanks to a methodological seminar on data
gathering.
Long-Term Durability of Results
vii.        Continuity of the efforts undertaken is evidenced by the inclusion
of further measures to readjust the education and vocational training system
in the Fourth IDA Education Project. Durability of the benefits afforded by
implementation of the physical components of the project is tied to the
accountability of school heads and users for maintenance of the rehabilitated
buildings, furniture, equipment and educational materials provided; after only
a short period of use, there is already evidence of premature wear and tear
that augurs badly for the future.
Net Outcome of Proiect and Lessons to be Drawn
viii. Despite their relatively limited impact on pedagogic aspects, reflecting
inadequately prepared implementation, the physical aspects of the project lay
the potential groundwork for future developments. The absence of any
re-evaluation work within DPE and its rejection of technical assistance
resulted in significant delays: the lessons to be drawn from this experience



iv
were in fact drawn. While IDA ought to have displayed greater firmness from
the start of the substitution project, the Borrower for its part ought to have
paid greater attention to IDA's recommendations. It would seem that the
Fourth Sd';cation Project will represent a useful complement to the measures
initiated under this Third Project.



PART ONE
1.          Proiect Idetification
Name of project   Third Education Project
Credit Number     811-CD
Country     Chad
Sector      Education
Subsector   Primary education, teacher training, vocational
training
2.          General Background
Development obiectives for the sector
2.01        The Third Education ?roject, for which a Credit Agreement was
signed on June 5, 1978, was designed to: (i) help the Government improve the
situation of primary education, more particularly in rural areas; and
(ii) allow the establishment of a permanent School Buildings Unit, the
introduction of new curricula and strengthening of the education
administration system.
2.02        Following the events of 1979, not only did it become impossible to
implement the program but the entire education sector was totally disrupted
and thrown into confusion (destruction of buildings, looting of furniture and
teaching materials, dispersal of students and teachers alike). As a result,
the administration of education had to be reorganized in 1984, much of the
school infrastructure had to be rebuilt and re-equipped, and tsaching
activities had to be started up afresh in most educational establishments. In
accordance with the recommendations submitted by the Government to the
International Conference on Assistance to Chad convened in Geneva in
November 1982, the priorities defined for the education sector were as
follows: (i) repair or reconstruction of infrastructure; (ii) procurement of
furniture for primary and secondary schools; (iii) provision of textbooks and
school supplies for primary and secondary schools. The substitution project
was
accordingly presented as an emergency project, limited to getting primary
education and technical training started again.
Relationship between the grolect and the macroeconomic context
2.03        In l^;78 the Government faced a dilemma:  on the one hand, rural
development depended on bringing literacy to farmers and pastoralists (the
rural population accounted for roughly 85 percent of the total population),
and on the other hand, there were insufficient funds available to pay
teachers, buy supplies, build schools and maintain the2. With a population of
4 million people spread over an area of 1.3 million km and a per capita GDP
on the order of US$120 in 1978, disposable income was a mere $60 per head.
Half of the population was concentrated in the southern section of the
country, in just 10 percent of the national territory, and this was also where
the two primary teacher training schools (ENIs) included in the project were



2
located. The lack of all kinds of technical training was a major impediment
to national development. The country's already straightened financial
circumstances had been made worse by the consequences of drought and efforts
to maintain national security; as a result, the country was in no position to
undertake the recovery efforts needed to remedy this situation.
2.04        When the substitution project was prepared in the aftermath of the
events of 1979 and succeeding years, the country lay in ruins and economic
activity had been reduced to zero. The project thus formed part of the vast
program to rehabilitate all sectors of the Chadian economy. Many peorle had
fled the country, more particularly those with technical skills or witA
sufficient education to qualify them for, inter alia, the job of teacher;
thus components relating to technical education and teacher training were
selected for strengthening under the substitution project in order to
partially make up for obvious gaps in Chad's educational and production
systems.
3.          Project Obiectives and Description
Objectives and components of the original proiect
3.01        The original project had as its goal the repair of primary school
buildings and facilities, with replacement of those buildings found to be
inadequate, and construction of new facilities needed to consolidate existing
primary schools. It also sought to strengthen the unit responsible for school
construction, develop curricula for technical secondary schools and lay the
groundwork for the future development of the education sector. The project
was made up of the following components:
(a)   Primary education:  (i) construction, equipment and furnishing of
approximately 200 school buildings for use as classrooms, together with
related-facilities, for approximately 60 rural primary schools;
(ii) establishment and initial operation, within the minijsry
responsible for civil works, of a permanent School Building Unit to
undertake the construction of primary school facilities, including the
training of site supervisors for this unit and the training of local
contractors.
(b)   Preparation and introduction of courses of study at the Lvc6e Technigue
Industriel (LTI) in N'Djam6na, made up as follows: (i) a revised
curriculum to prepare students for university-level engineering studies,
and (ii) a new program for the training of technicians.
(c)   Studies designed to identify and subsequently prepare future projects in
the education and training area, on the following topics: (i) future
development of primary education; (ii) financing of education and
training activities and more effective use of resources available for
this purpose; and (iii) personnel and personnel training requirements of
the Civil Service, more particularly in the education sector.



3
(d)   Provision of teaching staff, for an initial period of approximately
three years, needed to operate the Agricultural Technician Training
Center (CFTA) in Sarh scheduled to open in September 1979.
(e)   Support for the Project Office.
Objectives and components of the substitution Rroiect
3.02        Based on the priorities defined at the international conference in
Geneva, the substitution project was structured in the form of emergency
assistance limited to resumption of primary education and technical training,
through rehabilitation of infrastructure damaged or destroyed during the
troubles and provision of needed educational materials, furniture and
equipment, together with assistance for educational planning.
3.03        As redefined in the Credit Agreement, the substitution project
consisted of the following:
(a)   Primary Education:  (i) rehabilitation of primary teacher training
schools (ENIs) in Sarh and Moundou; and (ii) distribution of educational
materials to all primary schools.
(b)   Secondary Technical Education and Vocational Training:  rehabilitation
of the Lyc6e Technique Industriel (LTI) in N'Djamena.
(c)   Management and Planning of Education:  (i) strengthening of the Project
Unit through the provision of consultant services, furniture, equipment
and supplies; and (ii) strengthening of the Educational Statistics and
Planning Unit of the MInistry of National Education (MEN) through the
provision of equipment, consulting services and fellowships to support
the development of, inter alia, primary education, teacher training and
technical/vocational training.
4.          Proiect Design and Organization
Conceptual framework
4.01        As far as one can determine, the original project was clearly
designed and was extremely homogeneous in regard to the means to be employed
to achieve its set objectives, but it produced practically no results because
of the troubles that broke out shortly after the credit agreement had been
signed. The substitution project, structured as emergency assistance in the
aftermath of the troubles, represented action designed to deal with certain
specific problem areas. These circumstances had a highly adverse effect on
preparation of the project: given the pressing need to get the system working
again, the time required to properly prepare the conceptual framework could
not, it would seem, be spared. Yet the special conditions of a government
struggling to get back on its feet ought to have called forth a greater sense
of caution, particularly in order to better apprise the parties to the project
of its scope and extent.



4
Innovative measures
4.02        The studies and resources scheduled under the original project
were designed to introduce certain innovations in the education system.
These, however, had to be abandoned in the substitution project, given the
urgency of the situation in which the country found itself. The next project
(Fourth Education Project) will, however, take up and develop certain elements
that should allow the earlier objectives to be reached, consolidate the
groundwork laid by the Third Project, and prepare the way for introducing the
innovative elements required for development of the education system.
Project preRaration
4.03        The substitution project was prepared in October 1984 jointly by
the Chadian Government and a Unesco mission on the basis of proposals
submitted by the Government to the International Conference on Assistance to
Chad held in Geneva in November 1982 which had defined the country's
priorities in the area of education.
4.04        The resulting 'Substitution Project Preparation Document" was
accepted by IDA as it stood, and no appraisal was carried out prior to signing
of the substitution credit agreement, even though the document lacked, among
other -hings, an architectural schedule based on a program of instruction
trul; geared to the situation prevailing in the country and, as a consequence,
also lacked any sufficiently precise estimate of the cost of rehabilitation.
A second, more detailed estimate of these costs, carried out subsequently,
revealed rather higher figures.
4.05        Implementation of the substitutic.i project would undoubtedly have
been smoother if it had been prepared in accordance with IDA's rules and
procedures of the time, i.e. if the project had been reappraised on the basis
of the preparation report. The dominant concern seems to have been to meet
the country's most pressing needs as it emerged from the traumatic events of
earlier years; the time could not be spared to conduct advance studies tbat
would undoubtedly have prevented most of the problems that arose and
deficiencies that still persist -- certainly in the case of such a simple
project in terms of its components. The haste that prevailed in preparing the
revised project after the end of the troubles is, of course, entirely
understandable.
4.06        Shortcomings in project preparation are particularly apparent in
the following areas: (i) project risks, which were not mentioned in the
preparation report; (ii) absence of indicators, which had a significant impact
on the way in which the project was carried out. A list of indicators would
have permitted more rigorous monitoring of how the project activities were
progressing, through qualitative measurements, and this would have alerted IDA
earlier to the need to exercise supervision more attuned to the difficulties
of the situation, and would at the same time have enabled it to take measures



5
that would have headed off certain delays and certain mistakes, such as those
concerning the LTI in N'Djam4na. I
How realistic was the implementation schedule?
4.07        With hindsight, it is reasonable to say that the implementation
schedule for the substitution project was, overall, excessively optimistic:
in no way would it be possible to carry out all the measures within the span
of one year. Problems steaming from the fact that the Directorate for
Education Projects (DPE) had just been reorganized after the troubles and was
lacking in experience resulted in significant delays that could have been
avoided at least in part if DPE staff had been given proper guidance from the
start of the substitution project. The proof of this lies in the progress
achieved since Octobcr 1987, when the DPE was converted into the National
Directorate for Education Projects (DNPE) and a new Director was appointed.
At the same time, DNPE was provided with the local and expatriate support
staff it needed to operate properly. It would seem that, when the timetable
for the substitution project was being drawn up, those responsible were hoping
to complete this project (which had in fact started in 1978) as quickly as
possible, using only a portion of the credit amount, to the detriment of what
was truly required for its execution; a portion of the unallocated amount
could, however, have been used for activities to be identified later, as was
in fact the case with financing for teachers' salaries. Clearly no account
was taken of the minimum lead times required to draw up an architectural
schedule based on a syllabus, to prepare the bidding documents, and to
implement the bidding procedure.'
Institutional roles and resDonsibilities
4.08        It would seem that these time constraints were never explained to
-- or fully understood by -- the former Director of DPE, who combined this
post with that of Director of Education, resulting in excessive centralization
of project functions to the detriment of project results. It should also be
noted that the pr..paration report did not clearly define the respective
responsibilities of the various units and directorates withir MEN involved in
the project, such as INSE, DEE, the Planning Unit and the Directorate for
Technical Education.
Factors that contributed to difficulties
4.09        The main cause of the difficulties experienced by the project
seems to lie in the institutional weakness of DPE up to the time DNPE was
established and a new Director was appointed, and the tendency to centralize
project-related functions to the detriment of dialogue with the institutions
for which the aid was intended (see preceding paragraph) and with IDA. It
1      See particularly Section 5 - Implementation of the Substitution
Project - the N'Djamena LTI component.
2      The implementation schedule, planned and actual, is presented in Part
Three of the report, under Section 3 - Project Tmplementation.



6
would seem that certain shortcomings could have been avoided if better
contacts had been established with end-users.
4.10        To be objective, the final evaluation of the project should take
account of the following factors:
(i)      The troubles necessitated a partial restructuring of the original
project objectives and the signing of a revised agreement that
bore little resemblance to the original agreement, since any
results the original project might have had were wiped out by the
troubles.
(ii)      Poor supervision of pedagogic aspects by IDA at the start of the
substitution project, and inadequate technical assistance, had a
deleterious impact on project implementation. It would seem that
the question of supervision missions was inadequately studied in
terms of human resources, and that the IDA division responsible
for the project was understaffed. IDA thus found itself obliged
to delegate its responsibilities to a consulting architect, in the
hope that this would suffice to keep the project on track. But
this was far from being the case, as an outside consultant has no
coordinating powers allowing him to take effective action to
correct problems and other difficulties arising during project
execution; as he visits the country only intermittently, it is
even more difficult for him to take speedy action; and, lastly, a
consultant does not generally possess a sufficient, in-depth
knowledge of IDA rules and regulations.
(iii)      Project preparation had laid particular emphasis on the physical
aspects of the project, viz. civil works and equipment. The
limited importance assigned to the resources available for
technical assistance made it impossible to fully achieve certain
of the objectives envisaged for technical assistance; thus, for
example, the amount of resources channeled to the Educational
Planning Unit within MEN was insufficient to permit real planning
for the development of primary education, teacher training or
technical and vocational training.
(iv)      The German external assistance that had been envisaged in parallel
with the IDA assistance was insufficiently firm, and
implementation of related measures   that were to be provided
under bilateral assistance occurred only with significant delays,
accompanied by many problems and with only modestly satisfactory
3      FRG bilateral assistance comprised,  in particular,  preparatory
studies on the content of technical training courses and the types
of training to be provided; these studies were to be based on the
ILO study included under the IDA project. Based on these new course
contents, FRG was in addition to identify and supply the specialized
equipment for the LTI in N'Djam6na.



7
results. What is more, FRG never officially notified IDA of its
decision to withdraw from the project.
5.          ImRlementation of the Substitution Proiect 4
Primary education
Rehabilitation of the ENIs in Sarh and Moundou
5.01        The first call for bids for civil works was not in accordance with
IDA procedures and was rejected by IDA. The increase in construction costs
that occurred during implementation of the project resulted in a revision of
the specifications for the rehabilitation work in order to cut costs. While
selection of the winning contractor was approved by IDA in October 1987, the
contract was not signed until January 1988. All of the work for the ENIs in
Sarh and Moundou was completed in August 1988, and the training schools were
ready for the start of the 1988/89 academic year. It is to be regretted that
the scheduling of classrooms was not done on the basis of a clearly defined
policy for the training of primary school teachers (covering both the planning
of needs ' and educational content). While the contracts for furniture were
signed in February 1987, 6 the contracts for purchase of equipment were not
finalized until 1988. With just a few exceptions due to difficulties with
certain suppliers, installation of furniture and equipment has been completed.
Distribution of educational materials
5.02        Work on preparing the bidding documents began in March 1986 in
order to be able to distribute the teaching materials to primary schools in
June 1987. Teachers and students were able to use the books received and the
school supplies for the school year 1987/88. The lack of detailed information
on school enrollments resulted in significant distortions in the ratio of
students per book from one school to the next. Significant discrepancies
arose, with student/book ratios running from 4:1 to 200:1 for arithmetic, 2:1
to 74:1 for science and 2:1 to 67:1 for reading. ' The following factors
ought to have been taken into account: (i) the material absorbed, having
regard to sociocultural and ideological, scientific and pedagogic
4      The following paragraphs will examine only the implementation and
results of the project as amended, as the original project produced
no tangible results and any results it might have produced were in
any event obliterated by the troubles that swept the country.
S      The establishment of new teacher positions  is subject to the
country's budgetary constraints and the terms of its structural
adjustment policy.
6      It was not, however, supplied until October 1988.
7      This situation is highly prejudicial to the learning of French, which
is the medium of instruction.



8
considerations; (ii) pedagogic methods and practices followed in the ENIs, the
regional in-service training centers (CRFCs) and the accessibility of
textbooks to teachers in post; (iii) development by the National Institute
for Education Sciences (INSE) of supplementary teaching materials; (iv) the
number of textbooks by subject and by school; (v) organization of distribution
and measures for the preservation of textbooks; and (vi) financial
participation by the Parents' Associations (APEs) with a view to replenishing
the stock of textbooks.
Teachers' salaries
5.03        The Government's financial difficulties prompted it to ask IDA to
increase its contribution to the payment of teachers' salaries. This request
was accepted, and was accompanied by conditions relating in particular to the
use of technical assistance to strengthen the staffing of DNPE. The results
were highly positive.
Technical education
Rehabilitation of the LTI in N'Djam6na
5.04        In October 1985 an ILO consultant carried out a training/
employment study encompassing a general overview of desirable orientations,
fields of study and pedagogic options. In 1986, two further missions served
to fine-tune the conclusions regarding selection of fields of study and to
draw up lists of equipment. To make up for the withdrawal of the expected FRG
aid, the Italian bilateral aid agency drew up a vocational training plan 8 and
supplied part of the specialized equipment and fellowships required. For its
part, IDA increased the amount allocated to this component in order to fund
the purchase of the remaining specialized equipment. 9 Here too, the absence
of coordination between DPE and the units concerned was striking. The letting
of contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment for the LTI ran into the
same difficulties with the two ENIs. The civil works and construction
supervision were poorly executed. It is also to be regretted that the project
architect did not transmit his proposals for rehabilitation to the supervision
office, as had been agreed. 10 The work was not completed until December
1988, and the partial openint of the school is of very recent date (start of
the 1988/89 academic year). 1 The withdrawal of FRG bilateral assistance
8      This assistance took more than two years to materialize. This period
could have been put to good use in preparing the training programs.
9      See Annex 3.
LO     The main item was rehabilitation of the flooring in the workshops,
which appear to have been inadequately reinforced. The floors will
have to support heavy loads when the machinery is installed, but the
clayey soils underlying them may cause them to crack during the rainy
season.
11     The LTI in N'Djam6na had been closed since 1980.



9
brought about a total lack of consistency in the execution of this project.
Thus, contrary to the desirable sequence of events, the civil works were first
completed, then the equipment was ordered, and the question of pedagogic
content is only now beginning to be seriously looked into. The current
difficulties in starting up the LTI can be clearly traced back to this
reversed sequencing. Up until 1987, the Government made little effort to find
a replacement for the missing German assistance; if IDA had not insisted on
this point, the workshops would be empty of all equipment. An agreement
between the Government and Italy is making it possible to complete the
specialized equipment needed for the LTI's workshops. 12 Some of this
equipment has already been delivered but is still in its packing cases because
of a lack of funds to pay for connections and installation. 13
Management and planning of education
5.05        Support for Proiect Unit
The unwillingness of the previous project management to take
advantage of technical assistance had a number of extremely negative effects
on the project as a whole. This assistance could not be properly brought to
bear until after the present Director had been appointed. Project
implementation did not really begin to be effective until after the same
date. 14
Planned versus actual implementation of the project
5.06        The major discrepancies between planned and actual project
implementation fall under five main headings: (i) implementation schedule:
the closing date had to be twice extended; 15 (ii) cost increases for certain
project components; (iii) increase in IDA's share of primary teacher
remuneration; (iv) establishment of a special account; 16 dnd (v) withdrawal
of anticipated German bilateral assistance and its replacement by Italian aid.
12     See Annex 3 for the distribution of workshop equipment costs between
IDA and the Italian Government.
13     It should be noted that roughly $400,000 worth of machine tools was
wrecked during the rehabilitation work, even though it would still
have been possible to repair them at an estimated cost of $100,000.
14     See the implementation schedule in Part Three of this report, under
Section 3: Project Implementation.
15     On October 13, 1986, the closing date was extended from December 31,
1986 to December 31, 1987; and on December 30, 1987, the closing date
was extended from December 31, 1987 to December 31, 1988.
16     The credit agreement was amended in April 1986 to allow a special
account to be set up for categories 2 (furniture, equipment and
vehicles) and 5 (operating costs).



10
Ways of avoiding these discregancies
5.07        ad (i): Some of the delays in execution were due to resistance and
unwillingness on the part of the Director of DPE in applying the required
procedures for calling for bids, and inefficient management procedures
attributable to lack of experience on the part of DPE staff. These factors,
however, do not fully explain the delays. The limited capability of the
consulting firm charged with preparing the bidding documents and monitoring
the civil works also caused a number of delays. In retrospect, it would seem
that the presence in DPE of a full-time architect from the date of start-up of
the project, together with an expert on procurement and/or an administrator,
with greater latitude to coordinate activities, would have significantly
speeded up project implementation. Longer supervision missions by IDA
representatives at the start of the project might have offset the absence of a
formal appraisal of the substitution project. In any event it is evident
that, if the project had been reappraised prior to the signing of the
substitution agreement, and if DPE had been reorganized as soon as the
problems became apparent, some of the delays and cost overruns could have been
avoided.
5.08        ad (ii}:  Part of the increase in costs is attributable to the
delays referred to in (i): Chad underwent the double effect of sharp
inflation in construction costs together with a relative decline in the value
of the U.S. dollar in terms of the CFA franc; as a substantial proportion of
the project amount was earmarked for civil works, this had a very significant
impact on the final cost of the project. IDA's decision to increase its
contribution toward financing teacher salaries also had a notable impact on
the cost of the project.
5.09        ad (iii) and (iv):  These discrepancies could not be avoided, as
they stemmed from what were very positive decisions on IDA's part that got the
project going again and enabled it to achieve the results it did.
Assessment of project risks
5.10        As indicated earlier, 17 the risks inherent in the substitution
project were not assessed, as no appraisal report was prepared for the
project. However, the risks inherent in the project were low, provided the
physical components could be completed. Even though the more indirect goals,
those relating to the adjustment of curriculum content, were not achieved, the
rehabilitated facilities and the new equipment installed will continue to be
available to the Chadian education system for ultimate introduction of the
necessary adjustments. Thus, barring total failure (which has highly
unlikely), there was every probability that the project would usher in an
improvement, however small, in the quality of education. It is difficult to
determine after the event whether these risks were perceptible; however,
certain of the risks listed in the original project appraisal, such as those
relating to the capacity of local construction firms, were still present at
17     See Section 4:  Project Design and Organization, especially the
paragraph on preparation.



11
the time the substitution project was being prepared and proved to be real and
actual risks. The risk of withdrawal of bilateral aid ought to have been
clearly spelled out. The question of DPE's management ought to have been
raised more insistently during the supervision missions by IDA staff members.
Unforeseen factors that affected Rroiect imulementation
5.11        The withdrawal of the expected bilateral assistance for the LTI in
N'Djamena proved to be a major handicap for execution of this project
component. The unexpected rise in construction costs, the fluctuation in
exchange rates (see Annex 1) and certain factors that led to delays were
difficult to foresee. The fact that the Government found itself unable to
continue paying teachers' salaries should also be mentioned, but IDA stepped
in here in an extremely positive way, having regard to the circumstances, and
agreed to boost its contribution to paying the salaries of primary school
teachers.
5.12        The differences between the Minister of Education and the former
project director were likewise unforeseeable at the time the project was being
prepared; together with the difficulties of a personal nature with the
individual in question, these had an extremely harmful effect on the project.
Actions/decisions that affected project implementation
5.13        Among the more positive aspects in regard to decisions taken by
IDA, mention should be made of the following:
(a)   IDA's agreement to an increase in its contributien to paying the
salaries of primary school teachers. Even if this action is open to
criticism on grounds of the indirect effects it might have had, the
special circumstances of the project made this step necessary and the
overall result of this decision remains highly positive. It got the
project moving again and also remotivated the teacher corps, resulting
in a higher quality of instruction. In another area, by twice agreeing
to extend the closing date for use of the credit resources, IDA
displayed a capacity for adaptation of which the Government was able to
avail itself during a period of severe economic constraint for the
country.
(b)   The persistence with which IDA set about seeking, and finally succeeded
in obtaining, a source of bilateral aid, even though this task more
properly belonged to the Government. In taking this action, IDA
certainly avoided grave risks that would probably have resulted in the
failure of at least one component (the LTI in N'Djamena) and evidenced
its concern for the project.
5.14        As regards the Borrower, the appointment of a new Director to head
DNPE in November 1987 and the subsequent recruitment of technical assistance
to help manage the project also had a highly positive impact on implementation
of the project. It was from this date on that the project began to move ahead
at a reasonable pace.



12
6.          Project Results
Physical results
Rehabilitation of the ENIs in Sarh and Moundou
6.01        The two teacher training schools were rehabilitated and provided
with the necessary furniture and office equipment, audiovisual aids and
laboratory equipment (for physics, chemistry and natural sciences). The
imported equipment and furniture are of good quality; the design of the
locally produced school furniture is, however, such that it is unlikely to
have a long life.
Distribution of educational materials
6.02        By distributing educational materials, particularly textbooks, the
Third Education Project permitted the beginning of a return to normalcy for
the primary education system, where three out of every four schools (1,228 out
of 1,647 surveyed) were totally bereft of supplies. Without this assistance,
more than a quarter of the primary schools would in all likelihood have had to
close down.
Rehabilitation of the LTI in N'Diam6na
6.03        All the civil works have now been completed for rehabilitation of
the Lyc6e Technique in N'Djam6na, which is now the only i establishment in
the country where students can iontinue their studies up to 'baccalaur6atw and
"brevet de technicien' level. I   The LTI has received the necessary office
equipment, furniture and tools, together with the full array of machine tools
plus accessories and a set of spare parts. Delivery of the specialized
equipment for automotive engineering, electricity, welding, equipment
maintenance, and cooling and air conditioning is scheduled for October 1989.
Before the project, there was practically no equipment in working order left
in the workshops.
Strengthening of the Educational Planning Unit
6.04        This Unit has been provided with office furniture, a motor vehicle
and a PC. 20
18     Similar   institutions  have  been   converted   into   "collUges
d'enseignement technique."
19     The long cycle offering training leading to the "CAP de technicien"
examination has been transferred to Sarh.
20     Training in the use of the PC is scheduled under the Fourth IDA
Education Project.



1.3
Ouantitative and gualitative results
6.05        These cannot be precisely evaluated, in comparative terms, as the
project preparation report did not indicate which reference points were to be
taken into account in comparing the results with objectives set at the time of
appraisal.
Primary education
6.06        Whereas prior to rehabilitation the teacher training schools
(ENIs) in Sarh and Moundou could accommodate 150 students a year, their
capacity was raised to 300 with the conversion of the boarding facilities into
classrooms. Three types of instruction are provided in parallel: (i) the
training of supplementary teachers (instituteurs adjoints) in a two-year
course of studies; 21; (ii) the training of fully qualified primary school
teachers (instituteurs titulaires), in a one-year course for supplementary
teachers with four years teaching experience; and (iii) the training of
baccalaureate teachers (instituteurs bacheliers) in a one-year accelerated
course. 22 Together, the five ENIs in Chad train roughly 400 fully qualified
teachers and 500 supplementary teachers a year.
6.07        The system for training teachers has been strengthened with the
rehabilitation of the ENIs in Sarh and Moundou. These facilities can serve as
a basis for future growth of the system in response to new needs: the
beginnings of this growth are already apparent, even though it has not been
systematically introduced into the system. The project has also undoubtedly
raised the level of skills of certain primary school teachers. As a
consequence, the country is about to acquire a corps of better qualified
teachers. It is to be regretted that the Sarh LTI occupies half of the ENI's
premises, 23 making it impossible to conduct practice teaching in the practice
classrooms  24 or to use the laboratory, the library or the carpentry
workshop.     It is also to be regretted that the project did not make
provision for special training for the two people who are to be responsible
21     See Annex 7:  Enrollment in ENIs in Sarh and Moundou.
22     The training of  Lnstituteurs bacheliers is an EDF/FAC project
desinged to make up for the shortage of qualified primary school
teachers. The goal is to train 750 teachers over a three-year period
(the project comes to an end in 1989).
23     In a reversal of this situation, the N'Djamena ENI occupies a portion
of the premises of the Lycee Technique Commercial.
24     Until recently, the premises assigned as practice classrooms for the
Sarh ENI were also occupied by the military and practice teaching
assignments could not be carried out as scheduled.
25     The furniture intended for the rooms occupied by the LTI is being
stored in these specialized facilities.



14
for the laboratories in the rehabilitated ENIs, which would have guarantel
the proper use and maintenance of equipment purchased under the project. Z6
6.08        The educational materials distributed to the primary schools
consisted of 1,645 teachers' kits (cantines scolaires) and 116,775 textbooks,
of which 105,425 were for students and 11,340 for teachers. As 95,016 of the
textbooks purchased by the project were actually distributed and made
available to 303,198 students, it is warranted to say that one child in three
now has access to a school textbook. While this means that the objective laid
down in the project preparation document (distribution of 81,000 textbooks)
has been approximately achieved, this conclusion is only partially true of the
credit agreement objective of providing every school with educational
materials since only 75 percent of the schools benefited under the
project.
6.09        No evaluation has been made to determine the extent of the
improvement brought about by the use of textbooks and teachers' kits.
However, it is reasonable to argue that this initial assistance has made
possible the curriculum now being taught and has raised the quality of primary
teaching. In addition, this improvement will become more marked once the
study on the effectiveness of initial and continuing education planned under
the Fourth IDA Education Project has been completed. Two points are, however,
to be regretted: (i) no copies of the textbooks were supplied to the ENIs,
which would have made it possible for the next generation of teachers to
familiarize themselves with the new course contents; and (ii) to a lesser
degree, the educational material being distributed under other projects (IDA
and other donors) is not homogeneous in terms of textbook selection.
Technical training
6.10        The project was intended to provide, over time, the resources
needed to develop two levels of training:
(a)   Training of bacheliers technlciens (technical baccalaureates) who would
go on to higher-level studies. Starting with the 1988/89 school year,
84 students (two of them girls) have enrolled for a "Bac Fl," geared
toward mechanical engineering subjects; of these students, 28 are
first-year (prem.Lre) and 56 are second-year (terminale). 28 After
these students have completed their studies, the "Bac Fl" will be
replaced by the "Bac E" (science and technology).
26     No practical exercises are currently being conducted in these
laboratories because of the absence of skilled staff. This remark
also applies to the carpentry workshops.
27     On the other hand, the preparation report for the substitution
project called for only 75 percent of the schools to receive
educational materials.
28     These students came from the technical lyc4e in Sarh, which no longer
offers this course.



15
(b)   Training of technicians qualified to assume industrial duties in four
specialties where significant demand exists, namely automotive and
diesel engineering, mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, and
cooling and air conditioning. There is space for 10 students per
specialty. Courses opened in September 1988, and 39 students are
currently enrolled. The Italian bilateral aid agency undertook to
provide two years of training abroad for 10 Chadian nationals holding a
"Bac F1." 29
6.11        At this point in time, it is difficult to gauge the extent of the
measures in the field of technical education. The quality of the equipment,
however, suggests that the impact on learning will be positive; the students
will, to all appearances, be able to carry out the practical exercises.
Course contents and methods of instruction geared to the country's needs are
still to be defined 30 and/or refined. 31 It is by no means certain, however,
that these courses and methods will mesh with the new installations -- only
time can tell.
Educational planning
6.12        Under the project, the Planning Unit organized a three-week
in-service training course on data collection methods, financed by
COFORPA/BREDA, for 40 individuals working at the regional and local level.
Similarly, a three-week seminar financed by the project was organized in
Moundou and in Abeche for Central Government professionals, all inspectors,
directors of secondary educational institutions and teachers responsible for
planning at the regional and local level. These courses made it possible to
publish statistical yearbooks on primary education for the school years
1985/86, 1986/87 and 1987/88, where virtually no information had previously
been available.
6.13        After the troubles, the Planning Unit had ceased to have anything
to do with its original function, confining itself merely to preparation of
29     Of the ten students who trained abroad, six successfully completed
the course and obtained their certificate as technicien superieur.
The other four have been assigned to the Sarh LTI as teachers. Of
the six successful graduates, three went on for a four-month course
of practical training, while a fourth will shortly be taking a one-
year course in cooling and air conditioning.
30     The organization of the studies leading to the technician certificate
was entrusted, under the Italian bilateral aid program, to an Italian
training institution which defined the training objectives, designed
the programs, selected the teaching materials and determined the
subject matter to be learned in the four specialties.
31     The curriculum for the "Bac Fl" has not been changed.  This course,
which is scheduled to be discontinued at the end of the 1990/91
school year, will be replaced by the "Bac E," the curriculum for
which still has to be determined.



16
examinations. As a result of the training provided at the regional and local
level, it has been possible to obtain statistics that allow school planning to
be conducted more efficiently; under the Fourth Project, st will be possible
to distribute textbooks and school supplies much better than before. It is to
be regretted that this situation did not apply for the distribution of
textbooks and educational materials under the Third Project.
Project manag-ement
6.14        DNPE should benefit from the equipping of the premises for the ENS
under the project, as it will move in there shortly. The equipment and
supplies received have considerably enhanced DNPE's effectiveness in managing
current and future projects. Technical assistance is providing a gradual
transfer of know-how that will ultimately allow DNPE to operate in at least a
partially autonomous manner.
Chignes to groiect objectives
6.15        Technical education:  The LTI in N'Djam6na has taken over the "Bac
Fl" course from the LTI in Sarh, and the "CAP" course planned for the
rehabilitated premises has been transferred to the latter LTI. 32 This
decision by senior MEN officials is at variance with the conclusions of the
ILO study, which found that the CAP course was more in line with the
requirements of the Chadian economy. 33
6.16        Educational planning:  Despite extension of the participation by a
Unesco-provided specialist in planning, statistics and school mapping, the
Unit has not be able to echieve the school mapping objective. 4 This
microplanning activity requires demographic data that have not been updated
since 1964. The two fellowships for nine months training in planning,
statistics and school mapping were not awarded because of lack of coordination
between DPE and the Planning Unit. The study on restructuring of the Planning
Unit has been completed, but no action has been taken: the study should have
gone into greater detail.
Impact of the Rroiect
6.17        The most striking and immediate impact of the project has been in
preparing and initiating the next project (Fourth Education Project). The
Third Project was prepared in a manner that allowed the country's most
pressing post-trouble needs to be met. It helped senior Chadian officials
become aware of the need to think seriously about the education system; this
32     The LTI in Sarh occupies half of the rehabilitated premises of the
ENI (see above for qualitative assessment of results for that ENI).
33     The February 1988 IDA mission also reiterated the recommendations
made in the IID report.
34     Despite this, a concrete exercise involving a clearly defined and
readily accessible locality (Kanem) is currently under way.



17
served as a prelude to the Fourth Project, but could not be completed within
the confines of the Third Project. The project contributed toward the
development of human resources by offering training profiles that matched,
albeit still imperfectly, 35 the country's most pressing needs. The project
also greatly improved the situation of teachers and raised their sense of
motivation; it has also, but to a lesser degree, raised their general level of
skills.
7.          Durability of Project Results
Risk factors
7.01        These risk factors relate mainly to the country's ability to cover
the recurrent costs (cost of operating the schools and paying teachers'
salaries) on a regular basis. No new risks should normally ensue directly
from the project, as its purpose was simply to reconstruct premises that were
either obsolete or had been damaged during the troubles; thus no significant
additional recurrent costs should arise. The prolonged occupation of a
section of the facilities in Moundou is likely to reduce some of the benefit
from the prcject.
7.02        In order to ensure that the LTI in N'Djam6na will have sufficient
financing available to maintain its machine tools and renew its stock of
working materials, paid subcontracting work will have to be organized, i.e.
practical work carried out under actual production conditions. In another
area, special attention will have to be paid to the types of training to be
provided in order not to fall into the trap of teaching the students things
that they cannot use outside.
7.03        Unless some official measures are taken to encourage financial
participation by the parents' associations (APEs) in renewing the stock of
textbooks for use by primary schoolchildren, and unless corrective steps are
taken to prevent the rapid deterioration of these textbooks, there is a very
real risk that the benefits of this component will rapidly disappear. The
durability of the benefits for the educational planning process will depend on
retention of the individuals who have been trained in data collection.
Durability of nroiect benefits
7.04        The continuity of the efforts that have been made is manifest in
the continuation of efforts to reform the system under the Fourth IDA
Education Project.
7.05        The durability of the physical benefits from the project will be
tied to making school directors and users accountable for maintenance of the
rehabilitated facilities and the furniture and equipment provided; there is
already evidence of a slight but significant slippage in this regard.
35     Probable mismatch between the country's needs and the types of
training offered at the LTI; ENI course content still insufficiently
worked out.



18
7.06        It should also be noted that, after being in use for one year,
more than 78 percent of the textbooks distributed to the primary schools are
already partly damaged; this suggests that the average lifespan of a textbook
will be on the order of two and a half years. To counteract this disturbing
trend, the Directorate for Primary Education (DEE) seems to be planning to
launch an awareness campaign among students and teachers through the
inspectorates and parents' associations.
8.          Overview of IDA Actions
Strengths and weaknesses
8.01        As regards project implementacion  these are identical to what has
already been described in Sections 4 and 5. 3 As regards results, they are
on the whole positive in relation to the physical aspects of the project, less
so in relation to the introduction of pedagogic improvements. It is highly
unlikely that, if stress had been laid from the outset on improved teaching
methods, this would have produced durable results (given that the country was
just emerging from the troubles and was in no shape to assimilate changes of
this nature). On balance, therefore, IDA's actions show more pluses than
minuses, and the Fourth Education Project is providing the necessary
continuity.
Net result of identification/nreparation Rhases
8.02        In view of the urgency of the situation, project preparation was
carried out only in summary fashion. 37
Net result of appraisal stage
8.03        No reappraisal was carried out for the substitution project.  The
appraisal of the original project and the preparation of the substitution
project were viewed as sufficient, a judgment that was clearly erroneous. A
detailed appraisal of the substitution project would certainly have allowed
the more critical aspects of the project to be corrected. When the
Substitution Credit Agreement was being negotiated, a more detailed
investigation of local capabilities to prepare calls for bids and monitor
execution would have been desirable, as this would undoubtedly have enabled
IDA to modify its approach and if necessary insist on the establishment,
within the Ministry of Public Works or DPE, of a unit charged with preparing
bidding documents and coordinating and monitoring project implementation, as
had been planned under the original project. Such an arrangement would have
had the advantage of training local technicians who, after completion of the
project, could have been tasked with either the maintenance of educational
infrastructure or the preparation of Qdditional projects financed by
36     See Section 4: Factors that contributed to difficulties; and Section
5: Actions/decisions that affected project implementation.
37     See Section 4:  Project Design and Organization.



19
international organizations or bilateral donors. The Credit Agreement
defining the project was prepared along the usual lines. The main advantage
here lay in their flexibility, allowing modifications to be made ir response
to changing circumstances.
Net result of supervision
8.04        The decision to use a part-time consultant to supervise
implementatior. of the physical aspects of the prciect need not be a negative
factor, provided the consultant is able to establish an ongoing dialogue with
IDA, allowing problems to be discussed at regular intervals, and also provided
that the consultant's visits are coordinated with the progress of the project. 38
Neither of these conditions was met.
8.05        The frequent changes in the composition of IDA supervision
missions (more particularly the architects charged with monitoring
implementation of the physical aspects of the project), together with the
short time allowed for these missions at a time when the project was facing
severe problems, had somewhat of a negative impact. The changes in personnel
were, however, inevitable, since IDA was not in a position to base its
personnel management policies on the special needs of one project. Compared
with other projects, this one actually enjoyed a measure of stability.
Mention should perhaps also be made of certain problems that occurred with
IDA's Disbursements Division, 39 which probably stemmed from the restructuring
under way in that organizational unit.
Maior lessons
8.06        The lessons have already been drawn by IDA under the Fourth
Education Project, which shows evidence of a new approach. In the particular
context of the Third Project, IDA ought to have paid greater attention to
supervision and monitoring of the project in the field. 40 IDA ought also to
have taken the necessary steps to ensure that all the textbooks purchased
under the project were actually distributed to the schools. The preference
for procurement of locally manufactured furniture ought to have been linked to
quality guarantees, particularly where the unit cost was identical to that of
imported items.
8.07        It is also to be regretted that the development strategies for the
various sectors of the education system involved (primary education and
38     Several missions had to be postponed at the Government's request.
39     These problems related to allocation by category and delays in
recording disbursements, starting in 1988.
40     In the particular context of Chad at the time, IDA was faced with
a difficult decision, namely cancel the credit or attempt to carry
out the measures it did. The latter course was chosen, on the urgent
entreaties of the Borrower, despite a recommendation to the contrary
from the relevant IDA Division Chief.



20
technical education) were not at least roughed out prior to implementation of
the physical aspects of the project, even at the cost of extending the project
duration. 41 Study of these strategies had to wait for preparation of the
Fourth Education Project. In conclusion, it is to be regretted that this
project focused primarily on physical objectives, with little attention to
qualitative aspects, which were not even considered when the project (in both
its original and its revised form) was being prepared, and that the
supervision missions were unable to correct this ;ituation much earlier. IDA
ought to have displayed greater vigilance and exerted greater authority in
requiring that the necessary resources be devoted to ensuring proper
monitoring of project implementation. Furthermore, it would have been
desirable for signing of the Credit Agreement to have been tied to guarantees
for participation by the bilateral assistance agency originally envisaged.
9.          Overview of Borrower Actions
Strengths and weaknesses
9.01        These are generally identical to what has already been described
in Sections 4 and 5 above. 42 It should be stressed that the performance of
the Director of DPE was extremely inadequate in many respects. 43 DPE's
ability to manage project implementation during the initial years proved to be
highly dubious. This situation resulted from the problems in the relationship
between the Director of DPE and the supervisory minister (the Minister of
National Education) and also from the total absence of consultation with the
various national and international organizations involved.
Net result of actions during prolect preparation
9.02        Preparation of the substitution project was effected with
assistance from Unesco. A preparation exercise that included a better
definition of educational requirements would certainly have had a positive
impact on project implementation and would have allowed certain errors to be
avoided, even at the cost of postponing certain components to a later project.
Net result of actions during 2rolect imolementation
9.03        The potential weakness of DPE that stemmed from the Borrower's
refusal to make use of technical assistance services until 1988 made it
impossible, at least in part, to avoid delays and hence the cost overruns that
41     The project preparation document reduced this period to just one
year.
42     Section 4:  Factors that contributed to difficulties; and Section
5: Actions/decisions that affected project implementation.
43     The former Project Director also held the office of Director of
Education, and was as a result unable to devote sufficient time to
managing the project.



21
occurred during implementation. The extent of the delays that occurred during
implementation bears witness to inadequacies in DPE operations up until
November 1987. During the first phase of the project, the IDA supervision
missions reported on management problems, but without indicating their precise
nature or any remedial action proposed or taken. Difficulties occurred in
implementing the physical aspects of the project (construction and equipment),
particularly with regard to the observance of procurement procedures -- or was
the problem due to the unwillingness of the former Director of DPE to apply
IDA guidelines? The difficulties in coordinating bilateral aid were due to
lack of follow-up by DPE.
9.04        In the final phase of project implementation, the change in
Director had a revitalizing effect on DNPE's operations. Even though the
appraisal report for the Fourth IDA Education Project clearly defines the
powers and duties of the Director of DNPE, the Government has not yet
officially defined his responsibilities, thus prolonging a delicate situation
that is having an adverse impact on implementation of the projects. It would
be desirable for the necessary steps to be taken to regularize this situation.
Major lessons
9.05        The major lessons to be drawn from this exercise from the point of
view of the Borrower relate to the need for greater understanding on its part
of IDA's recommendations in regard to the use of technical assistance. In a
different area, the Government should understand that capital investments in
the realm of education must reflect an education policy that is sufficiently
thought out to be cost-effective and is geared to meeting training
requirements in line with the country's needs and resources.
10.         RelationshiDs under the Project
The relationship between IDA and the Government remained
harmonious throughout the project; however, it did not begin to become
productive until the old DPE was replaced by the current DNPE. As a result of
this good relationship, implementation of the project was able to take account
of changes and other developments in the macroeconomic context.
11.         Consultant Services
Architects
11.01       DPE's choice of consultants to prepare the bidding documents for
the civil works and to supervise the construction sites would appear not to
have been a model of careful selection procedures, as this selection was made
on the basis of a single candidate put forward by DPE, contrary to IDA's
recommendations. The quality of the services provided by this one firm of
consultants was generally less than satisfactory, both as regards preparation
of the bidding documents and as regards work site supervision. Relations with
the beneficiaries, with the inspection office and with the Ministry of Public
Works, also charged with supervising the civil works, are reported to have
been extremely curt.



22
Contractors
11.02       The quality of the work performed by the civil contractors was
average at best, with substantial variations from one construction site to the
next. While the results for the two ENIs seem to be acceptable, 44 the
outcome for the LTI seems rather poor, but it is difficult to determine
whether the fault lies with the consultants' architect or with the contractor.
SuDpli ers
11.03       The furniture and equipment was often delivered late, and the
nonperformance by one of the suppliers is to be deplored. The imported
supplies, equipment and furniture were generally of good quality; reservations
are, however, called for regarding the quality of the locally manufactured
furniture, the unit costs of which were identical to those quoted by foreign
suppliers.
Technical assistance and fellowships
11.04       An agreement was signed between Unesco and the Government to
provide the services of a specialist consultant in planning and school
mapping.  A consulting architect was retained by IDA to coordinate and
supervise the project up until 1987. An ILO expert carried out a
training/employment study for the LTI. 45 From the point of view of the
Government, these experts carried out their duties in a satisfactory manner in
their respective areas. 46 The planning for the long-range upgrading of the
education system initially envisaged under the project was not carried out.
The two fellowships intended for the Planning Unit were not awarded because of
a disagreement between DPE and that Unit. The technical assistance provided
subsequent to the establishment of DNPE proved effective.
12.         Project Documentation and Data
The information needed to prepare the present project completion
report was available within IDA. The change in the structural format of the
reports made it difficult to work out a consistent series of data,
particularly as regards the use of IDA manpower resources. Even though
documents prior to the establishment of DNPE were not available, DNPE made
every effort to furnish the documentation in its possession.
44     The two ENIs were built by a Chadian contractor.  The results are
deemed satisfactory, having regard to gaps in the supervision
exercised by the consultants.
45     A consultant subsequently arrived to complete the work of preparing
equipment lists.
46     A complaint was, however, lodged against the ILO consultant for
failing to submit an advance copy of his conclusions to the relevant
senior Chadian officials.



23
PART TWO
ANJALYSIS PREPARED BY THE BORROWE
Under the new procedure for preparing project completion reports,
the second part of the report is to be prepared by officials of the borrowing
country. The following text has been copied in extenso from the report
prepared by the National Directorate for Education Projects (DNPE) and
submitted to the Bank and Unesco by letter of July 5, 1989.
1.          Design and Objective
The Third Education Project was designed to follow on from the two
preceding projects, namely the First Credit No. 126-CD, signed in 1968, and
the Second Credit No. 251-CD, signed in 1981. This project thus formed part
of a logical sequence of investments in the sector.
Unfortunately, one year after it had been signed and had become
effective, the country fell prey to a civil war and military occupation that
almost destroyed it as a free and independent nation.
After remaining unimplemented for a period of time, the project
was amended in 1984 and became effective again in 1986.
The difficulties in implementing this project that stemed from
the absence of a structure for the coordination of operations ultimately
forced the Donor (IDA) and the Borrower (Chad) to twice extend the
implementation period and closing date for this credit.
The original project objectives and those of the revised project
(as amended on account of the troubles) did not differ in any fundamental
respect. The overriding purpose was to improve primary schooling in rural
areas.
The components of the project after its various amendments were as
follows:
Primary education
*     Purchase of textbooks and supplies.
*     Rehabilitation and equipment of the primary teacher training
schools (ENIs) in Sarh and Moundou.
*     Equipment of the Directorate for Financial and Administrative
Affairs and Equipment (DAAFM).
Technical and vocational training
*     Rehabilitation and equipment of the Technical and Industrial Lycde
in N'Djamena.
*     Development of training programs.



24
Scbool 2lanning
*     Strengthening of the Planning Unit.
*     Preparation of programs of activity for study of the development
of primary and technical education and vocational and teacher
training.
2.          Implentatlon
Implementatlon of the program following its amendment in 1984 was
marked by two bursts of activity:
1984-87:    Period characterized by the absence of an appropriate management
structure for this credit, more particularly the concentration of
responsibilities in the hands of the Office of the Director
General in the Ministry of National Education and the Office of
the Project Director.
The following activities were carried out during this period:
*     Payment of salaries to primary school teachers.
*     Preparation, starting in the first six months, of bidding
documents for procurement of supplies and textbooks for primary
schools.
1986-87
Primary education
*     Issuance of invitation to bid and examination of bids received for
the procurement of supplies and textbooks for primary schools,
together with furniture for regional primary school inspectorates;
receipt of these supplies, textbooks and furniture items scheduled
for end December 1986.
*     Preparation of bidding documents for procurement of equipment,
furniture and supplies for the ENIs.
*     Preselection of contractors for rehabilitation of the ENIs.
Technical and vocational training
*     Preparation of bidding documents for standard equipment for the
LTI.
*     Preselection of contractors for rehabilitation of the LTI.
*     Consultant mission (two weeks) to determine which types of
technical training should be offered.
School 2lanninf
*     Hiring of a technical assistant (specialist in school planning and
statistics).



25
*     Training seminar in school statistics for inspectors and heads of
secondary educational establishments.
*     Issuance of invitation to bid and examination of bids received for
the purchase of equipment for the ENIs.
*     Distribution of teachers' kits (for 1,650 schools) in the primary
school inspectorates.
*     Issuance of invitation to bid and examination of bids received for
rehabilitation of the ENIs. This bidding exercise was not
approved by the Bank as the latter did not have an opportunity to
examine the documentation, and in addition the then Project
Management expanded the list of preselected contractors. The
invitation to bid was subsequently reissued on the basis of the
first list of preselected contractors and the documentation
approved by the Bank.
Technical and vocational training
*     Invitation to bid for standard equipment for the LTI.
*     Reissuance of invitation to bid for the reasons indicated above.
Progect management
End 1987 - iresent: Period characterized by the appointment of a full-time
National Director for Education Projects, the recruitment of a
professional administrator, but above all by the stepped-up pace
of disbursements, evidencing the vitality of the management
structure set in place.
The following activities were carried out during this period:
In the course of the fourth quarter of 1987, a change occurred in
the internal management of the project with the appointment of a full-time
Director (and the creation of the National Directorate for Education Projects
- DNPE).
School nlanning
Continuation of consultant mission within the School Planning
Unit.
It should be noted that during this year, as a result of the
(second) reissuance of the invitation to bid for rehabilitation of the LTI and
the ENIs, the placing of orders for equipment for these schools was suspended.
Contracts for rehabilitation of the establishments in question could not be
signed until the end of 1987.
As regards the management of the project, negotiations were under
way for the recruitment of a professional administrator.



26
Signing of the civil works contracts and recruitment of a
professional administrator within DNPE were two conditions laid down by the
World Bank for a second extension of the credit.
Project activities 1988-89
Primary education
*     Signing of contracts for ENI equipment and receipt of part of this
equipment.
*     Rehabilitation of ENI buildings and provisional acceptance of
these buildings (third quarter 1988).
Technical and vocational training
*     Signing of contracts for standard equipment for the LTI and
receipt of part of this equipment.
*     Rehabilitation of the LTI and provisional acceptance of the works.
*     Call for bids for procurement of specialized equipment for the
LTI.
Project manasement
*     Professional administrator takes up his duties with DNPE.
*     Invitation to bid for procurement of office supplies and equipment
and for vehicles financed out of the balance of the credit;
closing of the credit, with payment of commitments continuing
until end June 1989.
In 1989
The first six months were devoted to receipt of standard equipment
for the LTI and the ENIs and specialized equipment for the LTI.
Relationship between the project management and other partners
Relations between the project management and the Bank
Relations between the project management and the Bank were good
throughout the period of project implementation. These relations became even
better after the establishment of the National Directorate for Education
Projects (DNPE). The difficulties that occurred between the first project
management team and the Bank are attributable to the actual structure of the
management unit, since it was subsumed in the Directorate General within the
Ministry of National Education and did not have any full-time staff. Only one
bookkeeper was recruited during the second year of the project.
The absence of full-time personnel and unfamiliarity with Bank
procedures were the source of the difficult relations between the Bank and the
project management. Thus the first applications for payment were often not



27
honored because they had not been properly filled out, and the Bank's
rejection of the first invitation to bid for rehabilitation of the ENIs and
the LTI was attributable to the first project management team's lack of
familiarity with the Bank's rules and regulations.
Relations improved thereafter.
Relations between the oroiect management and beneficiary deoartments
DNPE has had generally good relations with the units benefiting
under the project. However, it is useful to explain to them that the project
undertakes only clearly defined activities. The financing of equipment should
not be confused with the financing of supplies, which fall outside the scope
of the project.
Relations between the project manazement and other ministerial
departments
The project management has had to liaise with other ministerial
departments for a variety of activities, including bid evaluation, awarding or
approval of contracts, securing exemption from customs duties, and receipt of
furniture and other equipment. This accounts for a large number of
activities, and problems do arise in a number of cases.  These problems can be
smoothed out through simple consultation, more particularly with our
colleagues in Finance. After all, not everything can be set down in detail in
a credit agreement.
Lessons to be drawn
*     Involve users as much as possible in drawing up the bidding
documents where these have been drafted by a consultant.
*     Avoid scheduling the arrival of equipment, furniture, etc., during
the rainy season, as communications are difficult at this time.
*     Consolidate the arrival of shipments of equipment, furniture,
etc., especially where these are being supplied by different
companies.
*     Include a requirement in the bidding documents that the supplier's
representative possess minimum skills, if only to install certain
items requiring assembly.
Evaluation of project activities
With the Third Education Project having recently closed, it is
possible to assess the activities undertaken during its implementation, but
this assessment or evaluation will obviously be a quantitative one. Overall,
the objectives of the Third Education Project have been achieved in
quantitative terms. The following examination of these objectives, component
by component, will provide more detailed information.



28
Primarv education
(a)   School supplies and textbooks.  One thousand six hundred fifty
kits containing textbooks and school supplies were purchased and
distributed in each of the inspectorates. No monitoring exercises
could be carried out until almost two years later, with the study
on the distribution and use of these materials (see the study in
4uestion).
(b)   Rehabilitation and equipping of the primary teacher training
schools (ENIs) in Sarh and Moundou. The rehabilitation work for
these two training schools was completed and accepted within the
period scheduled for implementation, but delivery and acceptance
of equipment is still going on. Thus it is difficult to measure
the impact of this equipment on the training being provided in the
ENIs. However, it has been found that the equipment and furniture
bought for the schools meet the needs of an ENI, even though the
items of a more urgent nature, such as supplies and school
furniture, were those that were delivered last, and shelving for
the books that have been ordered is still missing.
(c)   Equipment of the DAAFM.  A different source of financing was
obtained for equipment for this Directorate.
Technical and vocational training
(a)  Rehabilitation of the LTI was completed, and the works were
provisionally accepted, with the usual reservations. However, the
small amount of work done to the existing buildings may endanger
the equipment. The ventilation system has been constructed in
such a way that the equipment is not protected against dust.
(b)   Quantitative delivery of the equipment for the LTI has just been
completed. As the workshop machinery has not yet been installed,
it is impossible to gauge the impact of this equipment at this
time.
(c)   It would seem that the training programs component did not receive
all of the attention it deserved. As was the case with the
primary education component, the project did not include a
component for the training of instructors.
School glanninf
A consultant specializing in school planning and statistics was hired
and made available to the School Planning Unit for the duration of the
project.
While this Unit has the capacity to organize training sessions, its
structure did not change very such (in terms of staff or of
organization) during the period of project implementation. Its work



29
capacity has likewise not changed much (except for the timely
publication of the statistical yearbook), probably as a result of
inadequate physical resources.
3.          Impact of the Progect on National Development
Given the current situation, it would be difficult to measure the
project's impact on the development of the sector or of the economy as a
whole. However, it is warranted to postulate that the rehabilitation and
equipping of the LTI can serve as the point of departure for a realistic
policy of gradual industrialization. In this regard, it should be stressed
that everything will depend on the choices made in terms of training programs
geared to Chadian realities.
4.          Lessons tg be Drawn
*     Need to involve the Borrower's technical staff in an objective and
disinterested manner in the preparation and implementation of
projects.
*     Need for continuing and periodic contacts between the Lender and
the Borrower.
Need to explain clearly to the Borrower the procedures to be
observed in implementing the project, through local seminars
attended by all the parties involved in execution of the project
in question.
*     Possibility for the Borrower itself to assess the need for
international technical assistance, both for project preparation
and during the execution phase.
*     Need to find a compromise, as early as the project's appraisal
phase, between the Lender's and the Borrower's procedures in
regard to international competitive bidding.



30
,PART THR,EE
1.          Substitution Project Timetable,
Origlnal Date 1   Revised Date-     Actual Date
Identification                May/Nov. 1978
Preparation                    October 1984      October 1984
Appraisal mission             February 1978            (none)    February 1978
Credit negotiations                        -                -
Board approval                  23 May 1978       28 May 1985      28 May 1985
Signing of credit agreement     5 June 1978       28 May 1985      28 May 1985
Effective date                  4 Dec. 1978       28 May 1985      28 May 1985
Closing date                   31 Mar. 1983      31 Dec. 1986     31 Dec. 1988
Final disbursements           30 Sept. 1983      30 June 1987     30 June 1989
Comments:
*     The credit agreement was amended on April 21, 1986, November 20, 1986
and December 12, 1987 to extend the closing date.
*     The credit closing date and the project completion date were extended by
three years (36 months), representing a 60 percent increase overall in
the duration of the project.
2.    Substitution Credit Disbursements (US$ million) 2
Final Quarter
(IDA fiscal year)         1985        1198
Estimated at time
of preparation          2.00        5.80         6.00        6.00
Actual                    0.60         1.99        4.45        7.86
Actual as Z of estimate    301          341         741        131X
1      Substitution credit agreement
2      The disbursement graph is shown in Annex 1.
3      No appraisal mission was sent after the project had been prepared
anew. The substitution project called for disbursement of only part
of the original credit.



31
3.      PEolect linpiementatio
Neither the preparation document for the substitution project nor
the supervision reports made any mention of key project indicators. A
schedule, comparing planned and actual execution dates, is presented below.
lmlenuntation Schedute. Plonned vs. Actual
1985              1986             -1987~-           -1988            1989
1 2  3  4         t2 3  4            1 2  3  4         1 2  3  4          1 2
Civil Engirw ing
aiddirg does.                                          
Cott for bids             4                                     **4*
Award                      4                                          4*        *
Works                        ".44.*"
Equfpment & Furniture
Lists $.                                            *                         ** ***
Bids/Orders                                                 **
Mrdfact.                    .44                              *44.4                    **
Transport/Del.
Office Suppifes
Lists 
Bids/Orders
Transport/Del.               ++                                       *        ***
Primary School Supplies
Orders                    4+                                 *4**
Transport                   44.                                    '**
Dfstribution                   .4                                               *4.4                *
Technical Assistance
ILO Consultants          4.
Architect                *++  *      '       *
Planning                  44444.               o'.*              _             **."
Auditors                                     *          *                                           *
Training                       4.444.....                                     *
Planning Studies            4.
(not carried out)
+ vs Pltwwed execution at tias of project preparation.
***: Actual executfon.



32
4.    Proiect Costs and Financing 1
A.1   Cost of Oriinal Proiect (US$ million)
Appraisal Est.                Luzal Cast 2
Category                    'Cost    Xof-Total             C0t   X of Total
Civil engineering            4.4        47.8X               0.1         19.2X
Furniture                    0.3          3.31              0.5         80.21
Equipment                    0.3         3.3X               0.0          0.61
Local staff salaries         0.7          7.6%               -
Techn. assistance            1.6        17.4%
Unallocated                  1.9        20.61                -
TOTAL                        9.2       100.01               0.6        100.01
A.2   Cost of Substitution Project (US$ million)
Preoaration Est.                 Actual Coat
Category                     gost    X of Total             ogt    X 21 Total
Civil engineering            0.66        8.01               1.57        20.11
Furn./Eqt./Supplies          2.74       33.01               3.31        38.9X
Techn. assistance            0.16         1.9X              0.61         8.31
Training/Studies             0.05        0.6X               0.05         0.71
Operations                   0.04        0.51               0.17         2.41
Contingencies                0.64        7.71
Teacher salaries             1.15       13.8X               2.15        29.61
Unallocated                  2.86        34.51               -            -
TOTAL                        8.30      100.01               7.86       100.01
1      It was not possible to prepare a breakdown between foreign exchange
costs and local costs for the original project, and DNPE did not
prepare such a breakdown for the substitution project.
2      The exact breakdown for disbursements was estimated by LOOAF in
October 1985 as follows: 19.21 for category 1 (US$114,800); 80.21
for category 2 (US$481,300); and 61 for category 3 (US$3,900).



33
B.1         Financing of Original Proiect
The original project was 100 percent financed by IDA. See
Table A.1 for breakdown of financing by category.
B.2         Financing of Substitution Project
At this point in time, the amount of project financing provided by
IDA, calculated in terms of U.S. dollars, is equivalent to 94.7 percent of the
amount made available under the credit agreement. The payment of a portion of
teachers' salaries by the Government cannot strictly be regarded as a Borrower
contribution to the project, and this has accordingly not been included in the
table showing sources of financing.
Savings were effected by eliminating certain civil works that had
originally been included but which did not seem to be crucial, thus resulting
in a lower cost than anticipated when the project was revised.
The contribution by the Italian bilateral aid agency to the cost
of the specialized equipment for the workshops at the LTI in N'Djam6na was not
included in the revised amount.
The fellowships for training abroad for the Planning Unit were not
used, thus reducing the amount earmarked under category 4 - Fellowships.
The substantial cost overrun in relation to the sum set aside for
category 5 - Operating Costs is attributable to the fact that DNPE was
simultaneously engaged in completing the Third Project and starting up the
Fourth Project.



34
Project Financing. Estimated vs. Actual 1
Credit             Revised             Final
(thousands)             Agreement           Amounts                 ts 2
Cost      X        Cost       X        Cost       X
Category             'US$      Fin.      M         Ein.      US        ELM..
1.  Civil Works           740     100%    1,615        1001    1,575       1001
2.  Furniture,
Equipment and
Supplies           3,100     1001    3,550       1001    3,309       100X
3.  Consultants'
Services             170     100%       655      100X       608      100X
4.  Fellowships/
Training              40     100%        57      100l        53      1001
5.  Operating
Costs                 25     100%       155      100l       170      100X
6.  Teachers'
Salaries 3         1,125      20X    2,148       100X    2,148
7.  Unallocated         2,500                120
Orig. Project         600     100%  (breakdown)  1001  (breakdown)  1001
Undisbursed            -         -        -          -      (437)
A.  Total IDA           8,300              8,300               7,863       1001
B.  Italian
Bilateral Aid                                               900 4    1001
TOTAL (A+B)             8,300              8,300               8,763
1      Includes the original project and the substitution project.
2      Definitive amounts as of June 30, 1989, based on estimates in CFAF
prepared .by DNPE.   Minor changes could occur as a result of
discrepancies between the exchange rate used for the final
applications (Nos. 50 - 56), naiely CFAF 1,000 - US$3.077, and the
rates used by IDA at the time of registration.
3      Up until February 1986, IDA financed 20 percent of the salaries paid
to    primary    school    teachers.           This    contribution
(US$2,148 thousand - 1001) was broken down as follows: up to March
31, 1985: 22.2X; up to June 30, 1985: 19.41; up to September 30,
1985: 16.71; up to December 31, 1985: 13.91; up to March 31, 1986:
11.1; up to June 30, 1986: 8.3%; up to September 30, 1986: 5.61;
up to December 31, 1986: 2.81.
4      Total proposed amount.  It was not possible to establish the actual
cost of the equipment supplied by the Italian bilateral aid agency.



35
C.    Cost of-Substitution Project. by Component
Substitution                 Final
(in thousands)                       Project                  Amunts
Component                              CFAF     USS       gm         USS
A.  Primary education                 1,232    2,830       780      2,466
B. Technical & vocational
training                           213      490       527     1,678 2
C.  School planning                      61       140      109        352
D.  Project management                   83       190      195        619
E.  Teachers' salaries                  504    1,150       748      2,148
Contingencies & price
increases                          270      614
Total components                      2,373    5,414      2,359    7,263
and contingencies
Comments
The relatively large amount of the credit total left unallocated
at the time of signing of the credit agreement enabled IDA to make the
necessary adjustments to facilitate project implementation.
A.   The smaller total than estimated for the Primary Education component
stems from the cancellation of certain rehabilitation works and from a
reduction in the proportion assigned to equipment.
B.    Some of the specialized equipment for the LTI in N'Djam4na, which was to
be financed in its entirety by bilateral aid, ended up being financed by
IDA, which explains the sizable increase in the cost of this component.
C.    The main reason for the increase in the cost of this component was that
the technical assistance contract for school planning, originally
scheduled for six months, was extended to cover two years.
Detailed project costs are presented in Annex 4.
2      The figure shown does not include financing of Italian bilateral
assistance.



36
D.   The incresse in the amount allocated to,project management stems in part
from the strengthening of technical assistance to DNPE and in part from
the implementation of construction work on its future premises (which
will be used for the Fourth IDA Education Project).
E.    By agreeing to raise its contribution to the payment of teachers'
salaries, IDA enabled the project to be resumed and to get off to an
effective start, while in return the Government agreed to use TA
services to manage the project.
5.          Project Results
The results of the original project were swept away by the
troubles that overwhelmed the country; there is no way one can evaluate what
these results might have been. As no specific appraisal was carried out for
the substitution project, no reference indicator for results is available.
The quantitative and qualitative results for each substitution project
component are set forth in the first part of the report. 1 The direct
benefits for the rehabilitated institutions in terms of beneficiaries/increase
in capacity are as follows: 2
1      See Section 5.
2      See Annex 5 for rehabilitated area per establishment and useful area
per student.



37
Capacilty of Prolect Institutions
ENI         ENI           LTI 3
Mo-undou      Sarh        N'DIiamna    Total
Students
Planned capacity               260         145             360        765
Present capacity 4             337         353             123        813
Boarders
Planned capacity               180         145             150        475
Present capacity 5               0           0               0          0
3      The LTI has just reopened; certain sections are, however, not yet
operational.
4      Enrollment for the 1988/89 school year.  The figures for the ENIs
include auditors (audlteurs 1lbres) and the "InstItuteurs-bachellers'
(FRG-financed training program).
5      In March 1986, IDA acceded to the Government's request to raise the
initial capacity of the ENIs from 150 to 300 students per school by
eliminating the boarding facilities.   Because of the country's
financial difficulties, the Government could no longer defray the
cost of providing boarding facilities.



38
6.               Fulfiltment of Conditions
Reference           Item                Status              Actions                                       comments
3.01           Project implementation     C          The Borrower has furnished the            The project was poorly managed for the first two years
necessary resources, within the           and significant delays were incurred.  Subsequently the
limits of its ability.                    project proceeded normally.
3.02           Consultant services         C         The required consultant services          Recruitment of the required consultants was on occasion
were used.                                detayed.  The results obtained were not always
satisfactory, particularly as regards architecturaL
design and follow-up.
3.03 (a)       insurance and use of       P          The ioported supplies were Insured.       The suppties purchased are being used by the Intended
(b)       project goods                         The school textbooks have mostty          users.  It shoutd, however, be noted that roughty one
been distributed.                         tenth of the textbooks purchased under the project have
not reached their intended users. Part of the ENI In
Moundou is being occupied by the LTI.
3.0; Cc)       Preparation of this         C         A Unesco/IDA mission visited Chad         IDA provided DNPE with the list of data to be prepared
report                               June 20 - July 2, 1989.                    for the mission.  The text prepared by the Borrower
forms Part Two of this report.
3.05 tl)       Employ a fully              C         Following certain difficutties            A new Director was appointed in October 1987  to
(ii)       qualified Director                    with the first Director, a new            reptace the first Director. whose management methods
incumbent was appointed in                were open to question. The staff and resources (TA)
November 1987. He was subsequently        required for proper operation of the Project Unit
confirmed In his position for the         were not put in ptace untit after this date.
Fourth IDA Education Project.
3.06           Management and planning    P          Statistics are now being collected        The Fourth IDA Education Project offers a favorable
of education                         regularly.  However, there is no           opportunity to undertake the necessary measures to
real planning as such.                    develop the education system.
4.01 (a)       Accounting                  C         A Project Administrator was               The accounting records have been updated but only as
(b)                                             recruited In February 1988.               from February 1988. The books are now being kept
C)                                              together with a local bookkeeper.         regularly.  The accounts have been examined by externat
The accounts are examined each            auditors In March 1987, March 1988 and April 1989.
year by external auditors.
4.02 (a)       Start-up and               P          None of the three schools                 The supervision mission (Jan.-Feb. 1989) made
(b)       maintenance of                        rehabilitated Is receiving the            recommendations regarding maintenance, but no
project equipment                    necessary maintenance.  The LTI            foltow-up action has been taken except at the ENI in
in N'Djawina is being opened              Sarh. Laboratory equipment at the ENIs is not
graduatly.                                being used, because no qualtfied staff are avaltable.
Le       C   completed;  P = partially completed.



39
7.          Use of IDA Resources
A.           m0wer 1 (weeks)
Specialty          Al    Al     A    8$      Ai    AZ    I         Al    T-otal,
Architect         0.1          0.1   7.2    2.0   3.0
Educator                             1.0          3.0
Consultant
IDA staff                      0.4
0.1   0.0   0.5   8.2   12.0  16.1  10.9  3.5    51.3
Source:  IDA
Data available as of March 1989; certain details had not yet been
recorded.



40
B.          Missions
Type of
Month/           No. of          Days in           Specialty            problems
xYar             peole          the f  Aie        rmsggrsnt4           enmm   eurMd
May   1978          1               10                 E
June  1978          1               14                 T
Nov.  1978          3               14              E,T,Ar
May   1979          3               14              E,T,Ar
Sept. 1979          1               10                 T
Feb.  1980          3               17               E,G,T
June  1980          3               18              E,T,Ar
Sept. 1980          4               17             G,T,Ag,Ar
Feb.  1981          2               8                G,Ar
June  1981          2               19                T,G
Nov.  1981          3               8              Chf,G,Ar             Adm,Tchn
Apr.  1982          4               8             Chf,G,T,Ar            Adm,Tchn
Sept. 1982          3               12              G,Ar,E              Adm,Tcbn
Oct.  1982          1               5                 Chf               Adm,Tchn
Feb.  1983          2               7               Chf,Ar              Adm,Tchn
May   1983          3               1               T,Ar,E              Adm,Tchn
Dec.  1983          2               17               G,Ar               Adm,Tchn
June  1984          2               7                G,Ar               Adm,TcIn
Oct.  1985          3               11             Chf,T,Ar             Adm,Tchn
May   1986          1                                  G
June  1986          1               7                 Ar
Oct.  1986          1               7                 Ar                    2
Feb.  1987          2               8                Ar,G                   2
July  1987          2               11               Ar,E                   2
Feb.  1988          1               6                Ar,G                   2
Feb.  1989          2                                Ar,G
Total            256
Leaend:  Chf - Division Chief/Deputy Division Chief;  E - economist;
Ar - Architect;  Ag - Agricultural Education Specialist;  T   Technical
Education Specialist; G - General Education Specialist.
Adm - Administrative problem;  Tchn - Technical problem;  2 - problem not
solved.
1      Project division missions only; time spent in the field also includes
time devoted to other projects.



41
LIST OA NNEXES
1.    Changes in Exchange Rates
2.    Credit Disbursements, Estimated vs. Actual
3.    Distribution of Specialized Equipment for the LTI in N'Djam6na, by
Source of Financing
4.    Capital and Recurrent Costs, Surface Areas and Occupation Ratios for the
Rehabilitated Institutions, Estimated vs. Actual, 1987/88
5.    Detailed Cost Breakdown for the Project



42
CHANGES IN EXCHANGE RATES
At appraisal t             US$l - CFAF 245.43         CFAF 1,000 - US$4.074
Yearly average  1981       US$1 - CFAF 271.73;        CFAF 1,000 - US$3.680
1982       US$1 - CFAF 328.61;        CFAF 1,000 - US$3.043
1983       US$1 - CFAF 381.06;        CFAF 1,000 - US$2.624
1984       US$1 - CFAF 436.96;        CFAF 1,000 - US$2.288
1985       US$1 - CFAF 449.26;        CFAF 1,000 - US$2.226
1986       US$1 - CFAF 346.30;        CFAF 1,000 - US$2.888
1987       US$1 - CFAF 300.54;        CFAF 1,000 - US$3.327
1988       US$1 - CFAF 307.10;        CFAF 1,000 - US$3.256
Estimated average rate over the life of the project:
1981/1988      US$1 - CFAF 314.38         CFAF 1,000 - US$3.181
Source: "International Financial Statistics," IMF and IDA
1   The original project was appraised in Kay 1978. The exchange rate used
for revision of the project in 1984 was US$1 - CFAF 435.34.



43
Atnex 2
CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS. ESTIMATED vs. ACTAL
(US$ thousand)
Est. Cumul.
IDA                     Disbursements            Actual           Cumulative
Fiscal                     at time of           Amount of        Disbursements
Year      Ouarter           Revision          Disbursements        (Actual)
1985         III               850                 600                 600
1985          IV             2,000                    -                600
1986           I            4,300                                      600
1986          II             5,300                                     600
1986         III             5,700                   -                 600
1986          IV             5,800               1,390               1,990
1987           I             6,000                 896               2,886
1987          II                                 1,240               4,126
1987         III                                   430               4,169
1987          IV                                   284               4,453
1988           I                                   634               5,087
1988          II                                 1,073               6,160
1988         III                                   512               6,672
1988          IV                                 1,259               7,931
N-B
Actual disbursements through the third quarter of 1986 represent the
revolving fund disbursed under the original project. IDA's fiscal year
starts on July 1 and ends on June 30. Disbursements for the fourth
quarter of 1988 are estimated on the basis of commitments.
Disbursement Graph
(US$ million)
Actual
Estimated at
time of project
revision
Soure: IDA



44
DISTRIBUTION OF SPECIALIZED EQUIPMENT FOR TIE LTI IN N'AIWAA,
By SO,URCE O9F EN INO
(US$)                              Italiay              IDA
General engineering                    -              360,000
Automotive engineering              300,000
Electricity                         360,000
Metal structures                    120,000
Cooling and air conditioning        120,000
Drafting/reprography                   -               96,000
Computers                              -               18,000
Teaching materials                                     24,000
TOTAL                   900,000           498,000
jjarQ: IDA
1 Estimated amount in U.S. dollars. The actual figure was not available.



45
Amex
CAPITAL AND RECURRENT COSTS,
SURFACE AREAS AND OCCUPATION RATIOS FOR THE
REHABILITATED INSTITUTIONS
ESTIMATED vs. ACTUAL, 1987/88
Cost in CFAF thousand: Usable area in m2
LT1 in N'Djam6na
Original Plan                  Actual
Total    Per Student        otal    Per Studet
Usable Area
Teaching                  2,707        7.52           3,487       28.34
Boarding                    780        5.20              -           -
Cost
Rehabilitation          139,671        388         166,415        1,353
Operations               92,185        256           (n.a.)       (n.a.)
ENI in Moundou
Original Plan                  Actual
Total    Per Student       Total    Per Student
Usable Area
Teaching                    855        3.3           2,070         6.9
Boarding                  1,215        6.8               0          0
Housing                     416          -             416           -
cost
Rehabilitation          90,194         347         149,738         497
Operations               79,520         307        121,845         405
ENI in S-arh
Original Plan                  Actual
Total    Per Student       Total    Per Student
Usable Area
Teaching                    710        4.8           2,041         9.5
Boarding                  1,331        9.2                0         0
Housing                     249          -              249          -
Cost
Rehabilitation           60,119        415           86,928        406
Operations               62,088        428           74,556        348
Source: Document prepared by the mission.



Annex 5     Pae I of 2
DETAILED COST BREAKDOWN FOR THE PROJECT (USSO
------------------- Prinary Education -----------------           Techn. Ed.            Adiin. and Plaming
Ofstribu. of      Teacher
ELI Saerh    ENI  Liut         Materials        Salaries        LTI N 01am6a         DNPE plan.      statItEf1m
Civil woris                         290,490        437,936                                              526.372            14.U985
Equipment. supplies                                                                                                          7 > t        39 87
and furniture                     127.120         i17.229           43,056                            954,67375103,7
Vehicles                                                                                                 38.677             27,341         21,294
Teaching materials                  33,064          33,064         1.219.589                             58,852
Fore1gn transport                                                     36,069
Misc. services                                                         2.676
Financing costs                                                        9,669                          1022213006,7
Subtotal                       160,184         150,293       1t301,059                           1.052,202            103,050         61,171
C4nptants                                                                                                57.355            215.826        1885553
Expatriate                                                                   ~~~~        ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~41.80  14,497  17.550
Local                                21,342          44 8196 22S                                                                              682
Reports                                                                                                      5021          26.S29         26.86
Subtotal                       21,342          44"819                                               99.212            236.549        206.786
Training
Monoraria                                                                                                                                  2  0
tsson expenses                                                                                                                             26.200
Vehicle operation                                                                                                                          19.14S
Foreign travel                                                                                                                              2,124
Misc. services                                                                                                                              2.8
SuppIies                                                                                                                                  9S2S4
Subtotal
Teacher salaries                                                                   2,148U000
Operating expenses                                                                                                          3S              3,168
Persomn                                                                                                                     14,174          7,07l
Mission expenseS                                                                                                            1130S          14,779
Vehicle operation                                                                                                           13,808           471
foreign travel                                                                                                              11,S70           246
Naintenance and repairs                                                                                                    41258            1 04
isp. services                                                                                                               35,163          4.406
Spstaes                                                                                                                      4,162
Postag                                                                                                                          86
FfSnubng cots                                                                                                              134,270         31.508
total                         472,016         633,048          1,301,059      2,148,000          1,677,786            618,854        352.019



Annex       Page 2 of 2
DETAILED COST BREAKDOWN FOR THE PROJECT (CFAF)
- *---------------- Primary Education ----------------              Techn. Ed.            Admin. and Planming
Distribu. of      Teacher
ENl Sarh      ENI Moundo.       Materials        Salaries         LTI k'Diamdna        DNP" Plan.       Statisties
Civil works                        86,928,309      149,737,842                                          158,008,568          47,120,066
Equipment, suppiles
and furniture                    39,493,962       36,813,538        14,121,550                        307,012,367          22,586.442      12,892,970
Vehicles                                                                                                 12,S70,000           9,070,000       6,955,000
Teaching materials                  10,156,744      10,156,744       400,259,200                         18,710.798
Foreign transport                                                      7,744,685
Rise. services                                                           794,950
Financing costs                                                        2,872,416
Subtotal                      49,650,706       46,970,282       425,792,801                        338,293,165          31,656,442      19,847.970
Consultants
Expatriate                                                                                               17,625,069          68,898,276      57,539,269       4
Local                               6,604,745       13,869,963                                           12,929,015           4,385,500       5,145,000       -4
Reports                                                                                                      15,000            1,825,000        200,000
Subtotal                       6,604,745       13,869,963                                           30,569,084          75,108,776      62,884,269
Training
Honoraria
Mission expenses                                                                                                                              8,469,950
Vehicle operation                                                                                                                               396,460
Forefgn travel                                                                                                                                6,189,100
Mfse. servfces                                                                                                                                  686,730
Supplies                                                                                                                                      1,247,410
Subtotal                                                                                                                                16,989,650
Teacher salaries                                                                    1,479,288,218
Operating expenses
Personnel                                                                                                                     11,195,103        947,000
mission expenses                                                                                                              4,255,050       2,215,400
Vehicle operation                                                                                                             5,254,025       4,584,955
Foreign travel                                                                                                                4,260,898         125,000
Maintenance and repairs                                                                                                       3,576,181          61,100
Misc. services                                                                                                                 1,348,294        309,600
Supplies                                                                                                                      11,229,830      1,308,809
Postage                                                                                                                       1,586,907
Financing costs                                                                                                                  25,570
Subtotal                                                                                                                42,721,858       9,551.864
Total                        143,183,760      210,578,087       425,792,801   1,479,288,218        526,870,837         196,667,144    109,157,7-S
Source: DNPE.



