Report No. 1712a-CD                                                               FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
a Third Education Project in Chad
May 4, 1978
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Education Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1            CFAF 245
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)          =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)    0.39 square mile (mi2)
1 square meter (m2)         10.76 square feet (ft2)
1 hectare (ha)               2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHAD
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .................................                            i-vi
I.   INTRODUCTION  ............................................                               1
II.   THE  SOCIOECONOMIC SETTING  ...............................                               1
III.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR  ....................................                                3
A.   Quality  of Education  ................................                             4
B.   Access  to Education  .................................                             5
C.   Government Educational  Strategy  .....................                             6
IV.  IDA'S ROLE             .....................................                              7
A.   The First  and Second Education Projects  ....                   .........          7
B.   Future Role  .........................................                              9
V.  THE PROJECT  .............................................10
A.  Summary  .............................................                             10
B.  Project Components  ..................................                             11
C.  Project Costs .......................................                              15
VI.   IMPLEMENTATION  ..........................................                              18
A.  Management ..........................................                              18
B.  Procurement .........................................                              18
C.  Disbursements  .......................................                             19
D.  Project Benefits  and Risks  ..........................                            20
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................                                20
This report was based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Chad in February 1977. The mission consisted of Messrs. D. Davies (econ-
omist), J.C. Lair (general educator), R. Harris (Unesco technical educator),
and 0. Hagberg (architectural consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Primary School Construction Component
3. Terms of Reference for Studies
4. Organigram of the Ministry of National Education, Culture, Youth
and Sports
5. Primary and Secondary Enrollment, 1975/76
6. Evolution of Public and Private Primary Education and of Public
Secondary Education, 1965/66 - 1975/76
7. Structure of the Education System (1975-1976)
8. Summary of Training Schemes, 1975-1976
9. Trends in Primary School Enrollment, 1964/65 - 1975/76
10. Distribution of Pupils by Grade, Birth Year and Age, 1975/76
11. Primary Education, 1975/76 (geographic distribution of enrollments)
12. Schooling Rate in 1975/76
13. Public Primary Education - Percentage of Repetition by Prefecture,
Grade and Sex, 1975/76
14. Teaching Staff in Public Primary Schools by Qualifications and
Prefecture, 1975/76
15. Trends in Secondary Education Enrollment, 1964/65 - 1975/76
16. Expenditures on Education, 1970-1976
17. Cost Summary
18. Assumed Price Increases, 1978-1982
19. Disbursements by Major Categories of Expenditures
20. Schedule of Disbursements
21. Project Implementation Schedule
MAP   IBRD - 13198



GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
CARE                                               Cooperative for American
Relief Everywhere
CRPP      Centre regional de perfectionnement    Regional Teacher Upgrading
pedagogique                             Center
ENS       Ecole Nationale Superieure               Secondary Teacher Training
College
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation           French Bilateral Assistance
Fund
FDAR      Fonds de Developpement et d'Action       Rural Development and Action
rurale                                  Fund
INSE      Institut National des Sciences de        National Institute of
l'Education                             Educational Sciences
SERARHY   Service des Amenagements ruraux          Service for Rural Water
d'Hydraulique                           Supplies
UNDP                                               United Nations Development
Programme
UNCDF                                              United Nations Capital
Development Fund
UNICEF                                             United Nations Children's
Fund
USAID                                              United States Agency for
International Development






CHAD
BASIC DATA
General
Land area                                      1,284,000 km2
Population                                     4 million
% Urban                                      15%
% Nomadic                                    42%
% Farmers                                    43%
Population Growth Rate                         2.1%
Urban Population Growth Rate                   7.2%
Life Expectancy at Birth                       35 years
Literacy                                       15%
Economic Data
GNP per capita                                 US$120
Industrial Composition of GNP                    %
Agriculture                                   51
Manufacturing                                  8
Construction                                   3
Transport                                      1
Commerce                                      16
Services                                       3
Public Administration                         16
Other                                          2
100
Growth in GDP per capita (1967-1975)           -1.3%
Education and Training
Of Whom      % of Age
Enrollments (1976)              Number        Female   Group Enrolled
(a)  Primary                   202,000        52,520          25%
(b)  Secondary                  12,382           872           2%
(c)  Technical                     675             -           -
(d)  Higher                      1,700             -          -
University of Chad          537             -           -
Abroad                    1,163             -           -
Teachers               Number          Qualified    Pupil/Teacher
Elementary            2,528             872             80
Secondary               538               -            23
Chadians              277                              -
Expatriates           261






CHAD
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a third education project in Chad, for which
an IDA credit of US$8.3 million is proposed.
Background
ii.       The Government of Chad faces a dilemma.  On the one hand, develop-
ment of the country's rural areas is dependent upon an increased literacy
and numeracy of farmers and herdsmen. On the other hand, a lack of funds to
pay teachers, buy materials or build and maintain school facilities has acted
as a brake on the development of education. For over a decade the competing
claims of drought relief and national security on scarce financial resources
have resulted in a continuous decline in real per-student outlays for educa-
tion. Education and training institutions are, consequently, seriously under-
funded, and the country is dependent upon external aid for financing all
capital expenditures and about 15% of recurrent expenditures. In addition,
the public services, including the school system, are sustained by a substan-
tial amount of grant-financed technical assistance.
iii.      With assistance from donors, the Government has embarked upon a
large rural development program and has consigned more than half of all public
investments to the agricultural and livestock sectors. New initiatives in
education and training are focussed on rural primary education to increase
literacy and numeracy rates and to provide basic knowledge which is helpful
in improving rural living. Because secondary and higher education are less
important for a broadly based rural development strategy, they are assigned
a lower priority within the education sector as a whole.
iv.       Rural primary education in Chad is weak; an essentially French
curriculum is taught under difficult physical conditions by underqualified
teachers without adequate teaching materials and equipment. The curriculum
is biased toward the preparation of students to advance to higher levels of
the system and, ultimately, to employment in public administration. The
curriculum does little to prepare students for work in agriculture or related
processing industries where most eventually will be occupied.  Primary school
facilities are among the worst in Africa, providing so little protection from
sun, wind, dust and rain that school attendance frequently depends upon the
weather. Only about one-third of the corps of primary school teachers are
fully qualified and most are demoralized by their working conditions.
v.        In 1973 the Government created a special agency, the National
Institute of Educational Sciences, to coordinate the overall effort to im-
prove primary education. The creation of a special agency was felt to be
necessary because of the weakness of public administration and because of
the desirability of coordinating aid efforts to primary education through a
single governmental unit. After a period of experimentation and evaluation



- ii -
in pilot primary schools, the Government with the cooperation of a number of
donors has formulated a package of interrelated projects to improve primary
education. The overall effort to improve primary education is large and the
Government has secured external financing to develop a new curriculum, train
teachers, and to begin to replace dilapidated or otherwise inadequate school
buildings.
The First and Second Education Projects
vi.       The two previous education projects in Chad aimed at (a) improving
primary education through the training of primary school teachers, and (b)
increasing the number of skilled industrial workers and middle level in-
dustrial and agricultural technicians. These projects provided buildings,
furniture and equipment; they relied heavily upon donors for staff and upon
the Government for financing start-up costs.
vii.      The First Education Project (Credit 126-CD), signed in 1968 and
amended in 1973, provided US$2.2 million to establish a Primary Teacher
Training College in Moundou and an Agricultural Technician Training Center,
originally in N'Djamena. In 1971 the Government and IDA agreed that Sahr
would be a better site for the Agricultural Technician Training Center and
funds were included in the Second Education Project (Credit 251-CD) to finance
the additional costs associated with building the school at Sahr rather than
N'Djamena.
viii.     The Second Education Project (Credit 251-CD), signed in 1971 and
amended in 1973, provided US$2.7 milion to (a) establish a Technical Secondary
School in N'Djamena, (b) finance cost overruns associated with changing the
site of the Agricultural Technician Training Center to be constructed under
the First Education Project (Credit 126-CD) (para. 4.02), (c) provide equip-
ment for a Vocational Training Center in N'Djamena, and (d) finance a study
of farmer training.
ix.       Achievements and experience.  Construction of the three project
institutions has been completed. Two project institutions, the Primary
Teacher Training College and the Technical Secondary School, are in operation
and the opening of the Agricultural Technician Training Center is scheduled
for September 1979. The delay in opening the Agricultural Technician Train-
ing Center is attributable to staffing, financial and curriculum problems
which have affected other project institutions to a lesser extent. These
problems have been resolved for the Primary Teacher Training College and the
resolved Technical Secondary School, and measures have either been taken or
are underway to resolve them for the Agricultural Technician Training Center.
The Government has been successful in seeking assistance from France to pro-
vide some staff and will provide its own funds to operate the Agricultural
Technician Training Center. The proposed third education project would also
finance some of the staff required to establish new training programs at the
Agricultural Technician Training Center while Chadians are being trained.



- iii -
x.        The severity of Chad's financial problems became apparent in 1973
when the Credit Agreements for the projects were amended to provide 100%
financing. In the first project, it was originally intended that IDA finance
82% of the project net-of-taxes cost of US$2.2 million, and in the second
project 71% of the project net-of-taxes cost of US$3.1 million. The financial
situation in Chad has not improved, and therefore the Government will not be
able to make a contribution to financing the proposed third education project.
xi.       Experience since the appraisal of the Second Education Project
(Credit 251-CD) has shown that the curriculum envisaged for the new Technical
Secondary School in N'Djamena will not achieve the objective of meeting the
country's needs for middle level industrial technicians. The proposed third
education project would finance technical assistance to develop and introduce
a technical curriculum for the new Technical Secondary School which would
provide better training for a small number of students who would go abroad and
a separate curriculum for technicians who would go directly into industry.
IDA's Future Role
xii.      The proposed third education project would, through the financing of
studies, establish a basis for future external assistance to the education and
training sectors. The objectives of future investments should be to improve
staffing in the public sector through training, particularly in the education
sector, to achieve greater efficiency in the education system through better
financial planning and to support the Government's long-term efforts to im-
prove rural primary education. In the short term, the proposed project would
contribute to an improvement in rural primary education through the construc-
tion of primary schools, to technical education through the design and intro-
duction of new curricula and to agricultural training through the provision of
staff.
Project Description
xiii.     Objectives.  The project's main objectives would be to help the
Government to improve rural primary education by upgrading about 15% of the
physical facilities of rural schools and, in the process, improve the capacity
of the construction industry to build schools and other small buildings in
rural areas. The project would help the Government to establish a basis for
future investments in education and to use its technical secondary and agri-
cultural school facilities more efficiently.
Project Content
xiv.      The project would be implemented over the period 1978-1983 and
would comprise:
(a) construction and equipment for up to 60 rural primary schools
of about 200 buildings, to be used as classrooms, practical
areas, storage spaces and teacher preparation areas;
(b) 176 man-months of technical assistance, and payment of
the salaries of eight Chadian senior staff and 33 junior
staff for four years to:



- iv -
(i) help establish a permanent School Building Unit;
(ii)  train Chadian site supervisors and technicians; and
(iii) supervise school construction;
(c) 48 man-months of technical assistance to revise and
replace the curriculum for the Technical Secondary School
in N'Djamena;
(d) 36 man-months of technical assistance to undertake studies
of education finance, public administration and primary
education which would serve as a basis for future educational
development;
(e) 72 man-months of technical assistance to augment the staff
of the Agricultural Technician Training Center financed under
the First and Second Education Projects (Credits 126-CD and
251-CD, respectively), and enable this institution to open
by September 1979; and
(f) provision of staff, equipment and operating expenses for
the Project Office.
Project Costs
xv.       The cost of the project, excluding identifiable taxes, is estimated
at US$9.2 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$6.5 million, or 71%
of total project cost. The base cost estimates are for February 1978 and take
account of recent materials and labor costs in Chad. Taxes are not included
in total costs because all Government procurement excludes identifiable
taxation. The estimated average cost of construction is about US$153 per
square meter, or about US$260 per student place. This compares favorably with
similar construction in neighboring African countries. The cost of technical
assistance is estimated to average US$60,000 per man-year and is based on
recent bilateral and UNDP experience. The project costs include an allowance
for physical contingencies that averages 5% of the total base cost for civil
works, furniture, equipment and personal costs. Physical contingencies
take account of the fact that only 12 sites have been identified.
The allowance for price increases is about 20% of base costs plus physical
contingencies, and is estimated on the basis of expected price increases for
civil works of 9% per year through 1980 and 8% per year through 1982, and for
equipment and personnel (including technical assistance) of 7.5% per year
through 1980 and 7% per year through 1981 and 1982.
Financing of the Project
xvi.      The proposed IDA credit of US$8.3 million would finance 90% of the
net-of-tax cost of the project. Because of severe budgetary constraints, the
Government is unable to make a financial contribution to the project and has
asked other external donors to finance the balance of total project costs of
US$0.9 million. Firm commitments have been received from UNDP and the United
Nations Capital Development Fund to finance this balance. A UNDP grant of



-v -
US$0.6 million would finance, except for some local salary costs to be fi-
nanced under the credit, four posts in the School Building Unit, namely,
the principal technical adviser, the operations manager, the chief of the
design section and the accountant. A United Nations Development Fund grant
of US$0.3 million would finance the construction of the first three schools.
Project Recurrent Costs
xvii.     The project has been designed to minimize increases in the recur-
rent expenditures of the Government and to introduce a more efficient system
of primary education. The new primary schools constructed under the project
would replace or consolidate existing facilities and should not result in a
substantial increase in teacher salaries. Small additional expenditures may
be required to finance teaching materials.
Procurement
xviii.    Civil works, estimated to cost US$4.1 million, would be for small,
widely dispersed buildings. Wherever possible, buildings would be procured
under local bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. Where local competitive
bidding would not be possible, buildings would be constructed on force account.
Orders for equipment and building materials, including materials provided to
small contractors, estimated to cost about US$2.5 million, would be grouped
wherever possible in lots of not less than US$50,000 and the contracts would
be awarded in accordance with IDA's guidelines for international competitive
bidding. Small equipment contracts amounting to less than US$50,000, and
furniture contracts totalling an estimated US$0.4 million, would be awarded on
the basis of quotations or through local competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures acceptable to IDA.
Disbursements
xix.      Funds from the credit account would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 100% of expenditures for civil works - US$4.4 million;
(b) 100% of expenditures for furniture - US$0.4 million;
(c) 100% of expenditures for equipment, tools and vehicles -
US$0.4 million;
(d) 100% of expenditures for technical assistance, including
the local salaries of UNDP personnel - US$1.0 million; and
(e) 100% of expenditures for local personnel - US$0.7 million.
US$1.4 million of the credit would be unallocated. Disbursements would be made
against contracts or certificates of expenditure; documentation of the latter
would not be submitted for review, but would be retained by the Government and
would be available for inspection by IDA during the course of project supervi-
sion. Disbursements from the credit for civil works would begin only after



- vi -
the United Nations Capital Development Fund grant of about US$0.3 million has
been fully disbursed for civil works. Any funds remaining undisbursed at the
completion of the project would be cancelled.
Accounts and Audits
xx.       The Project Office would set up an accounting system which would
reflect, in accordance with sound practices, the use of funds for the differ-
ent project components, including the Project Office itself. A separate
account would be kept by the School Building Unit to cover construction
expenditures. All accounts would be audited annually. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that (a) accounts would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) the accounts, together
with the auditors' report, would be submitted to IDA within four months of the
close of the Government's fiscal year; and (c) the report of the auditors
would be of such scope and in such detail as IDA may reasonably request.
Project Benefits and Risks
xxi.      The proposed project would finance the school building component of
a larger primary education development program, which also includes curriculum
development, teacher retraining and better school supervision. The overall
program should lead to a marked improvement in the quality and efficiency of
primary education. For its part of the program, the project would provide new
schools to replace dilapidated structures now being used by about 18,000
students who comprise 9% of primary school enrollments. The project studies
would pave the way for much-needed improvement in the quality of public
administration and, through better financial planning, in the efficiency of
the education and training systems. The new secondary technical school
curricula should help satisfy the country's needs for industrial technicians
and engineers. Technical assistance for the Agricultural Technician Training
School financed under the two prior credits would enable that institution to
open.
xxii.     The project could involve some risks.  Constructing a large number
of small buildings at scattered rural sites by force account or by inexpe-
rienced contractors, in a country with poor communications, requires manage-
ment and technical manpower that is in short supply. The training and techni-
cal assistance components of the project have been designed to help reduce
these risks. Also, the project would be organized to allow Government flex-
ibility in procurement for civil works: it would permit the Government to
use building contractors, undertake force account works, or employ other
methods of building schools such as community participation in construction
through local parents' associations.
xxiii.    Given these safeguards and given the priority assigned to primary
education by the Government and the resources being invested by donors, the
risks of not achieving the objective of improving the quality of primary
education are small. There is little risk associated with the studies or
with the curriculum development components of the proposed project.
xxiv.     The proposed project forms a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
US$8.3 million to the Government of Chad.



CHAD
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises a third education project, for which an IDA
credit of US$8.3 million is proposed.
1.02      Education and training in Chad are in a difficult situation and
the Government faces a dilemma in formulating a strategy for improving these
sectors. On the one hand, the very low level of educational achievement
of farmers and herdsmen is a constraint on the economic development of the
country. On the other hand, the Government's precarious financial condition,
reflected in a lack of funds to pay teachers, to purchase materials and to
build and maintain school facilities is an impediment to the development of
an efficient education system. Inadequate financing of rural primary educa-
tion has resulted in a high-cost, low-quality system wherein 60% of all
student's drop out permanently before they have acquired basic reading, writing
and arithmetic skills.
1.03      Improvement in the quality of rural primary education will be
achieved through programs for training teachers, developing curricula,
improving school inspectorates, and building new facilities which meet the
minimum standards required for efficient teaching. The Government is trying
to achieve modest improvements by asking donors to finance a package of
related projects which will not result in substantially increased levels of
recurrent expenditures. The proposed project is designed as part of that
package.
1.04      The Government of Chad has requested IDA assistance to (a) con-
struct and furnish buildings to replace dilapidated or otherwise inadequate
structures at about 60 primary schools in rural areas; (b) increase the
capacity of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and of small-scale contractors
to construct schools and small buildings; (c) undertake studies which would
provide a basis for future educational development; (d) plan and introduce an
improved curriculum at the Technical Secondary School in N'Djamena constructed
under the Second Education Project (Credit 251-CD) (para. 4.08); and
(e) augment the staff of the Agricultural Technician Training Center, con-
structed under the First and Second Education Projects (Credits 126-CD and
251-CD) to enable that institution to operate efficiently when it opens.
II. THE SOCIOECONOMIC SETTING
2.01      Chad's land area of 1.3 million km2 is sparsely inhabited by four
million people, who produce a per capita GDP of about US$120; in rural areas
the per capita personal income is about US$60. The population is less than
15% urban and is growing at 2.1% per year. The country's poverty is reflected
in a 'Life expectancy at birth of 35 years and an illiteracy rate of 85%.
Half of the population, mostly farmers growing cotton, live on about 10% of



the land area which constitutes southern Chad; the other half are mainly
herdsmen who occupy the dry Sahelian north and east. Nomadism poses a
serious problem for the delivery of social services such as education and
health, and helps to account for the relative backwardness of the northern
and eastern parts of the country. Language differences are another con-
straint on development. The language of half the population, who live in
the north and east, is Arabic; over one million people in the southwest speak
the Sahr language, and the language of the administration is French. These
ethnic, linguistic and economic differences correspond to the geographic
regions and are not propitious for the country's overall development and
national integration.
2.02      The prospects for rural development are greatest in the southern
part of the country where cotton growing and the development of livestock
enterprises have already induced the establishment of related processing
industries such as cotton ginning, spinning mills, abattoirs and tanneries.
The growth in exports and public revenues to finance further development
is dependent upon the continuous economic improvement of this region which,
in turn, is dependent upon infrastructural investments in public services,
including education. With the exception of the Lake Chad area, there are
limited opportunities for public investment in the northern part of the
country because of the region's low economic potential and civil disorder.
2.03      Manpower.  There is general agreement that insufficiently trained
and educated manpower is a critical constraint for development. This con-
straint is only partially relieved by a substantial number of expatriates who
provide barely sufficient support for the current level of activity in all
sectors. Expatriates account for 80% of senior managers, about 90% of all
engineers, over half of all middle level administrators and over 40% of all
technicians. Enhanced levels of economic activity and new projects would
require additional expatriate manpower, as current manpower policies and
enrollments in training institutions will not result in the replacement of
expatriates by Chadians, much less provide for the additional manpower require-
ments of economic growth. Lack of trained manpower in both the public and
private sectors of the construction industry is a particular concern because
it severely limits the size and composition of the country's capital invest-
ment program.
2.04      Government finance.  In recent years, financial problems have
been a serious handicap for the Government in executing a development program.
Severe drought and civil disorder have reduced per capita incomes, caused
net disinvestment, and forced the Government to shift resources from develop-
ment activities to internal security and the short-term welfare of drought
victims. During the period 1972-1974 the country lost one-third of its
livestock herd. Over the last decade, little has been spent on the mainte-
nance of existing economic and social infrastructure, with the consequence
that an already inadequate roads system has deteriorated and public build-
ings, including schools, have become dilapidated. Less obvious, but perhaps
more important for development, financial policies have resulted in the
under-funding of important ongoing activities, wage freezes and a deteriora-
tion of important institutions such as the civil service, including the corps



- 3 -
of teachers. Financial difficulties have forced the Government to rely
totally upon donors for its capital expenditures, and a substantial portion
of the Government's recurrent budget has been financed by France. Between
1967 and 1975, total aid flows averaged about 15% of GDP.
2.05      The Government's financial problems are reflected in the trend of
public expenditures for education. For over two decades, enrollments have
increased at a more rapid rate than total expenditures for education with
consequent declining per-student outlays. In fact, during the period 1970-
1976, total real expenditures on education declined because budgeted increases
have been insufficient to offset inflation. Because of this financial predica-
ment the education system has become entirely dependent upon external aid for
capital development and heavily dependent upon France for recurrent budgetary
support, including the cost of expatriate school teachers; over 80% of all
teachers with the qualification of "instituteur" or above are grant-financed
expatriates. Yet, in the face of substantial outlays for national defense,
the Government has attempted to maintain education's share in the total budget
at about 15% which, while very low, compares favorably with the budgets of a
number of other African countries.
2.06      Prospects.  The end of the drought, the consequent improved pros-
pects in the livestock industry, the continued relative prosperity of the
cotton growing southwest, and the discovery of oil have improved the Gov-
ernment's financial outlook. The Government anticipates that some of the
revenues formerly committed to drought relief can be used for education and
training, and during 1976/77 provided the Ministry of Education with its
largest share of the recurrent budget ever -- 16%, compared with 25% for
defense and 4% for agriculture and livestock. However, the increase in
education's share of the budget in 1976/77 does little to reverse the long-
term decline in real resources committed to this sector. The increase simply
restores the real outlays for education to the 1973 level (Annex 16).
III. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
3.01      The structure of Chad's education system follows the French pattern.
Six years of primary education are followed by two cycles of secondary educa-
tion, the first lasting four and the second three years. After a total
reliance on France and other Francophone West African countries for higher
education, a national university was opened in 1971 which offers a range of
two- and three-year courses, including the humanities, law and the biological
and physical sciences.
3.02      The primary teacher training program consists of a combination of
seven years of secondary level education and training and four years of prac-
tical experience. Until 1974, secondary school teachers were trained in a
two-year course at a higher teacher training college in Brazzaville, Congo;
currently, they are to be trained in a two-year course which begins at the
university in late 1977. Technical education at three lycees begins after a



- 4 -
minimum of two years of general secondary education; artisan training and the
training of nurses and midwives begin after primary school. There is a large
number of specialized courses of different duration run by ministries of the
Government, other than the Ministry of Education, to serve their own needs
(Annex 8). These courses are generally designed to serve the manpower needs
of Government departments.
3.03      The most important non-formal education in Chad is provided by the
Ministry of Agriculture through 19 farmer training centers. The Government
intends to increase the number of these centers as rapidly as capital and
recurrent financing and technical assistance are made available by donors.
However, there is considerable uncertainty about the efficiency of farmer
training as it is organized in Chad; the Swiss Government has agreed to
finance a technical assistance project, prepared by the Government and IDA
in April 1976, to resolve some of the outstanding issues (para. 4.09). Other
forms of non-formal education are virtually non-existent and the administra-
tive, financial and economic bases for establishing new programs are weak
(Annex 8).
A. Quality of Education
3.04      The weakness of primary education is attributable to a curriculum,
taught under difficult physical conditions, by underqualified and unsupervised
teachers (Annex 14) without adequate teaching materials and equipment. The
present curriculum is essentially French and largely designed to prepare
students to advance to higher levels of the system; it is biased, ultimately,
toward employment in public administration, where the number of jobs are
limited. The curriculum does little to prepare students for the lives which
most will lead, employed in agriculture or related processing industries. The
quality of primary education is worse in rural than in urban areas because of
poorer facilities and also because communications problems result in teachers
not being paid on time, a lack of school supervision by inspectors, and non-
delivery of books and other teaching materials. These weaknesses in the
primary education system contribute to high dropout and repetition rates which,
in turn, make the system costly. The Government must finance about 25 student
years of primary education for each student who finishes the six-year program.
3.05      The facilities for primary education are among the worst in Africa,
with about 65% of all classrooms being of mud or, more frequently, temporary
strawmat construction. Given the severe climatic conditions, overcrowding and
lack of furniture, these schools are very uncomfortable. Most structures
lack facilities for storing materials and equipment and do not provide pro-
tection from the rain, dust and heat, with the consequence that the length
and timing of school attendance are frequently determined by the weather.
While proper facilities alone are not a guarantee of quality in education,
in the case of Chad it is clear that an upgrading of existing rural primary
school facilities is a necessary condition for an overall qualitative im-
provement.



3.06      Low qualifications and morale of teachers also have a detrimental
effect on the quality of education. Only about 900, or one-third, of the
corps of primary school teachers are sufficiently qualified (Annex 14).
Moreover, they are demoralized by their working conditions and by the lack
of support from the inspectorate.
3.07      Secondary education suffers, though not as severely, from the same
problems as primary education. The Government must finance over ten student
years of secondary education for each student who finishes the first four
years.. Much of this cost is attributable to a repetition rate in excess of
50% and a dropout rate of nearly 20% during the fourth vear. As in primary
education, there is little maintenance of facilities and too little is spent
on materials and equipment. Forty-four percent of the secondary school
teachers are French. This large number of expatriate teachers generates a
high turnover rate among teaching staff and is partially responsible for
the perpetuation of a curriculum which is biased toward enabling secondary
school students to pursue their studies abroad. A badly needed reform of the
secondary school curriculum is being planned. Other problems confronting
secondary education include the poor general preparation of incoming students
from the primary schools.
3.08      Chad has made progress in establishing systems of vocational and
technical education of good quality. The Training and Skills Upgrading
Center in N'Djamena is operated jointly by the Government and the Chamber of
Commerce, and is financed partially by an apprenticeship tax. The Ministry
of Public Works manages a National School for Public Works, with a capacity
of 120 students, for the training of middle level technicians in four-year
courses for the construction industry. At least half of the students are from
and are financed by other Francophone countries. Currently, the major quali-
tative bottleneck in technical education is the inappropriate curricula in
secondary technical schools for the training of middle level techicians for
industry and for pre-engineering training (para. 4.08). In addition, the
technical secondary schools suffer because they are under-funded for mate-
rials, equipment and maintenance. The heavy reliance on expatriates, who are
difficult to recruit, has resulted in shortages of qualified teaching staff.
B. Access to Education
3.09      From 1956 to 1976, primary school enrollments increased at an aver-
age annual rate of 13%, from 18,000 to over 200,000 students. However, most
of this expansion occurred prior to 1966; during the last decade the average
annual rate fell to about 3%. At the current low rate, little progress is
being made in increasing the percentage of children of primary school age
enro]Lled in school. Currently, 17% of all students in the last year of
primary school gain admission to secondary school and because of the very low
quality of rural primary schools almost all of these are from urban areas.
Public secondary education did not exist prior to 1947 and for all grades not
until 1960. As late as 1964 there were only 480 secondary school students in
the entire country; in 1976 there were over 13,000 students enrolled at 30
secondary educational institutions, implying an impressive average annual



- 6 -
growth rate of 35%. There are over 1,000 students at institutions of higher
education abroad and about 550 enrolled at a new national university in
N'Djamena.
3.10       Although universal and free primary education is the national policy,
only 35% of the school-age population is enrolled. This is due both to the
difficulty of providing facilities and teachers in sparsely populated regions,
particularly in the north and east, and to a lack of interest in state educa-
tion on the part of some parents in these regions. Urban areas are better
served than rural areas in terms of schools offering all six primary grades
and in the quality and number of teachers. A consequence of these regional
constraints is that the enrollment rate, while low, is nevertheless five to
six times higher in the southwest than in other areas (Annex 12).
3.11       While the participation of girls in primary education has been im-
proving rapidly, it remains low at 26% of primary school enrollments. Govern-
ment policy and Chadian law provide that women should have equal access to
education and, although it is a slow process, this is being achieved through
the relaxation of social restrictions.
C. Government Educational Strategy
3.12      The Government's educational strategy is related to its economic
policy, which is geared chiefly to rural development. In 1976/77, 53% of all
public investment was for projects in the agricultural and livestock sectors.
Thus, new initiatives in education and training are being focussed largely on
increasing literacy and numeracy rates and providing basic knowledge which is
helpful in improving rural living through rural primary education. Because
secondary and higher education are less important for a broadly based rural
development strategy, they are assigned a lower priority within the education
sector as a whole.
3.13       In 1973 the Government created a special agency, the National
Institute of Educational Sciences (INSE) to coordinate and implement, with
the exception of construction, all components of its primary education program.
The overall program is large, has a number of related components and is almost
entirely dependent upon external aid, including a substantial amount of tech-
nical assistance; the program is already beginning to yield positive results.
The basic components of the rural primary school improvement program are as
described below.
3.14       Curriculum development.  The Government has received technical
assistance for the period 1977-1982 under a UNDP-financed and UNESCO executed
project to assist INSE in implementing a reform of the primary school curri-
culum, particularly in planning teacher retraining and the development of
educational materials. This project follows up on a prior UNDP-financed
project which, starting in 1974, designated 20 pilot primary schools to test
new programs prepared by INSE. The pilot schools are now well established and
are expected to yield a continuous flow of test results for the curriculum
reform and ongoing curriculum development efforts. While France is the most
important bilateral supporter of these curriculum reform activities, the
Swiss, US and Canadian Governments are also contributing significant amounts
of technical assistance.



3.15      Teacher training.  A comprehensive program of primary teacher up-
grading has been underway since 1968 when UNDP and UNESCO, with assistance
from UNICEF, began the first of two projects which resulted in the creation
of five regional teacher upgrading centers. By mid-1976 the entire corps
of primary school teachers had received the first of a series of short courses
which will be given in these centers. The centers' role has been expanded
and, in addition, they are now being used as regional bases for itinerant
teacher trainers financed under a UNICEF project. The major component in the
IDA-financed First Education Project (para. 4.02) was construction, furniture
and equipment for a new teacher training institution in Moundou which is to
strengthen training for teaching an improved curriculum, including agriculture
and manual skills; the institution has been in operation since 1974. For the
period 1977-1980, USAID is financing technical assistance and the construction
of workshop centers at pilot primary schools for the in-service training of
primary school teachers in practical subjects and village leaders in the
training of adults (para. 3.14). The teaching program for the workshop
centers has not yet been formulated. The design of the workshop centers and
the supervision of their construction will be responsibilities of the School
Building Unit, which would be assisted by the proposed third education project
(paras. 3.16 and 5.06).
3.16      School construction.  An important bottleneck to the improvement
of primary education is the physical condition of the country's primary
schools (para. 3.05); professional educators are unanimous in the opinion
that a replacement of these facilities would make an essential contribution
to improving the quality of primary education. A program to provide school
facilities designed to accommodate the new teaching programs, beginning during
the period 1977-1982, would be timely as a complement to the activities
outlined in paras. 3.12-3.15. In 1975 the Government, with the assistance of
UNDP and the UN Capital Development Fund (UNCDF), started a pilot primary
school construction project. The objective of the project is to provide
school designs which may be executed economically in rural areas, using local
materials and labor as much as possible, and which will accommodate a reformed
teaching program. The project is funded to construct 18 schools. This
project got off to a slow start because of management problems, but has now
produced good school designs for Chadian conditions. Objectives are now being
achieved and designs have been formulated and tested with satisfactory results.
The proposed third education project would use the designs developed by this
project.
IV. IDA'S ROLE
A. The First and Second Education Projects
4.01      The two previous education projects in Chad aimed at (a) improving
primary education through the training of primary school teachers, and (b)
increasing the number of skilled industrial workers and middle level indus-
trial and agricultural technicians. These projects provided buildings,
furniture and equipment; they rely upon donors for staff and upon the
Government for financing start-up costs.



- 8 -
4.02      The First Education Project (Credit 126-CD), signed in 1968 and
amended in 1973, provided US$2.2 million to establish a Primary Teacher
Training College (PTTC) in Moundou and an Agricultural Technician Training
Center (ATTC), originally in N'Djamena. In 1971 the Government and IDA
agreed that Sahr would be a better site for the ATTC, and funds were included
in the Second Education Project (Credit 251-CD) to finance the additional
costs associated with building the school in Sahr rather than in N'Djamena.
It was envisaged that the PTTC would increase the number of primary school
teachers, assist in on-the-job training of existing teaching staff, and
train teachers for an improved primary school curriculum that would include
basic agriculture and the use of simple manual tools. The objective of the
ATTC was to train agricultural field extension staff.
4.03      The Second Education Project (Credit 251-CD), signed in 1971 and
amended in 1973, provided US$2.7 million to (a) establish a Technical Second-
ary School (TSS) in N'Djamena, (b) finance cost overruns associated with
changing the site of the Agricultural Technician Training Center to be
constructed under the First Education Project (Credit 126-CD), (c) provide
equipment for a Vocational Training Center in N'Djamena, and (d) finance a
study of farmer training. The objective of the Technical Secondary School
component of the project was to replace an existing institution in Sahr which
has dilapidated facilities and inadequate space for workshops. The equipment
for the Vocational Training Center in N'Djamena would complete the establish-
ment of workshops at an ongoing and highly successful skills upgrading center.
The study of farmer training was to establish a basis for a third education
project (para. 4.09).
4.04      Achievements and experience.  Construction of the three project
institutions has been completed. The delays experienced in implementation
were eight months for the PTTC, two years for the ATTC and six months for the
TSS. The two-year delay in the construction of the ATTC is attributable to
slowness on the part of IDA and the Government in reaching agreement on a site
for the institution. Two project institutions, the PTTC and the TSS, are in
operation and the opening of the ATTC is scheduled for September 1979. The
delay in opening the ATTC is attributable to staffing, financial and curri-
culum problems which have affected other project institutions to a lesser
extent. These problems have been solved for the PTTC and the TSS and measures
have either been taken or are underway to solve them for the ATTC. The Govern-
ment has obtained assistance from France to plan a reform of the agricultural
education system,,including the ATTC,and expects to obtain technical assistance
to meet part of the ATTC's staff requirements. The proposed third education
project would also finance some staff required to establish new training
programs at the ATTC while Chadians are being trained. The receipt of plans,
acceptable to IDA, for opening the ATTC by September 1979 would be a condition
of credit effectiveness. The plans would include a budget for the start-up
operations of the school beginning in January 1979, the specifications of the
curriculum, staffing arrangements including the identification of key person-
nel,and arrangements for recruiting students.
4.05      The severity of Chad's financial problems became apparent in 1973
when the Credit Agreements for the projects were amended to provide 100%
financing of costs net of taxes.  In the first project, it was originally
intended that IDA finance 82% of the project cost of US$2.2 million, and in
the second project 71% of the project cost of US$3.1 million. The financial



- 9 -
situation in Chad has not improved and therefore the Government will not be
able to make a contribution to financing the proposed third education project.
4.06      Currently almost all of the public investment budget and about 15%
of the recurrent budget are externally financed. To achieve a better coordi-
nation of aid, the Government has agreed to hold a conference of donors to
review the country's financial problems, in particular the problem of finan-
cing ongoing operations. To achieve a better coordination of aid and better
financial planning for the education sector, the proposed third education
project would finance studies of education finance and public administration
(para. 5.13 and Annex 3).
4.07      The appraisal reports of the first and second education projects
envisaged that the project institutions would be staffed initially by tech-
nical assistance personnel. Chadians were to be provided with fellowships
by a bilateral donor to undertake studies which would ultimately enable them
to replace expatriate teachers and trainers. The Government has experienced
difficulties in securing finance for the required technical assistance and in
completing the fellowship program. Chadians on fellowships overseas often
remain longer than anticipated, frequently change their course of study and,
when they do return, often prefer employment in administrative rather than
teaching jobs.
4.08      Experience since the appraisal of the Second Education Project
(Credit 251-CD) has shown that the curriculum envisaged for the new TSS in
N'Djamena will not achieve the objective of meeting the country's needs for
middLe level industrial technicians. At the appraisal of the second project,
this curriculum had been in use for only three years at the Technical Second-
ary School in Sahr and there was insufficient evidence to assess results.
Eight years of experience with the curriculum at Sahr now show that nearly
all graduates go abroad for engineering studies; once abroad, these students
invariably abandon their engineering studies, for which they are poorly pre-
pared, and undertake training for non-technical occupations. The proposed
third education project would finance technical assistance to develop and
introduce a technical curriculum for the new TSS which would provide better
training for a small number of students who would go abroad and a separate
curriculum for technicians who would go directly into industry.
4.09      In April 1976, an IDA mission evaluated the results of the study
of farmer training financed under the second project and concluded that
investment in new farmer training centers would be premature because of
the lack of a teaching program, the Government's difficulty in financing
and staffing new centers and weak Government administration. The Government,
with the assistance of the pre-appraisal mission, formulated a project to
develop a new teaching program and to improve the administration of farmer
training centers. The Swiss Government has since agreed to finance this
project with a grant.
B.   Future Role
4.10      Through the studies of public administration, education finance and
primary education to be financed under the proposed third education project,
it is anticipated that follow-up projects will be identified which may be
eligible for further external assistance. The objectives of future projects



- 10 -
should be to improve staffing in the public service through training, par-
ticularly in the education sector; to achieve greater efficiency in the
educational system through better financial planning; and to support the
Government's long-term efforts to improve rural primary education. In addi-
tion to establishing a long-term basis for future external assistance, the
proposed third education project would, in cooperation with other donors,
give short-term assistance to the Government in financing its rural primary
education program, in developing secondary technical school curricula and in
staffing the ATTC.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Summary
5.01      The project's main objectives would be to help the Government
to improve rural primary education by upgrading about 15% of the physical
facilities of rural schools and, in the process, improve the capacity of the
construction industry to build schools and other small buildings in rural
areas. The project would help the Government to establish a basis for future
investments in education and to use its technical secondary and agricultural
school facilities more efficiently.
5.02      The project would be implemented over the period 1978-1983 and
would comprise:
(a) construction and equipment for up to 60 rural primary schools
of about 200 buildings, to be used as classrooms, practical
areas, storage spaces and teacher preparation areas;
(b) 176 man-months of technical assistance, and payment of
the salaries of eight Chadian senior staff and 33 junior
staff for four years to:
(i) help establish a permanent School Building Unit;
(ii) train Chadian site supervisors and technicians;
and
(iii) supervise school construction;
(c) 48 man-months of technical assistance to revise and replace
the curriculum for the Technical Secondary School in N'Djamena;
(d) 36 man-months of technical assistance to undertake studies
of education finance, public administration and primary
educa.ion which would serve as a basis for future educational
development;
(e) 72 man-months of technical assistance to augment the staff of
the Agricultural Technician Training Center, financed under the
First and Second Education Projects (Credits 126-CD and 251-CD),
and enable this institution to open by September 1979; and



- 11 -
(f) provision of staff, equipment and operating expenses for
the Project Office.
B. Project Components
Primary School Construction
5.03      Description of school buildings.  The primary school construction
program would follow up on the UNDP/UNCDF pilot primary school project (para.
3.16). It would (a) replace existing dilapidated or otherwise inadequate
buildings, or (b) consolidate two or more schools to provide a complete
primary cycle of six classes, with provision for a work area and space for
a school garden.  Construction at most sites would consist of four buildings
housing six classrooms, a covered manual working area, a storeroom, and a
teachers' preparation area. However, at sites where some of the existing
structures are found to be adequate, construction would consist of fewer than
four buildings (Annex 2).
5.04      Furniture and equipment.  Simple furniture would be provided for
60 students in each classroom and for all teachers; it would be designed for
easy repair or replacement, using tools provided under the project and mate-
rials and skills available locally. The furniture would be designed by the
Government service responsible for primary education in cooperation with
the School Building Unit of the Ministry of Civil Engineering (para. 5.06).
Furniture would be constructed by the Skills Upgrading Center in N'Djamena
with materials financed and supplied by the School Building Unit or by local
craftsmen under contract with the School Building Unit. Hand tools would be
provided under the project for (a) school gardening, (b) metal and wood
crafts, and (c) the repair of agricultural implements and furniture and the
school building itself. UNICEF would provide the tools on their standard list
for primary school workshops and the remainder would be financed under the
project. UNICEF is providing these tools to the UNDP/UNCDF pilot primary
school construction project (para. 3.16) and to the teacher training workshops
to be financed by USAID (para. 3.15).
5.05      Sites.  Initially, schools would be constructed in the southeast.
Should the internal security situation change, some schools might, in later
years, be located on other parts of the country. Sites are being selected
by an inter-ministerial committee with representatives from the Ministry of
Education, the School Building Unit in the Ministry of Civil Enginering, the
Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, and the Min-
istry of Health. The criteria to be used in selecting the school sites are:
(a) Schools constructed under the project would either replace
or consolidate existing unsuitable facilities; the intention
would be to avoid an increase in the Government's recurrent
cost burden (paras. 2.04-2.05);
(b) Sites would be easily accessible by road to facilitate
construction and the supervision of teaching by Ministry
of Education inspectors;



- 12 -
(c) Project schools would be located where there are current or
planned development activities such as irrigation schemes,
farmer training centers, new industries or health clinics;
and
(d) All schools would have access to wells.
During negotiations, assurances were given that the sites for all schools
to be built under the project will be acceptable to IDA; an acceptable
list of school sites for the first year of construction has been received.
The Government will, by April 1 of each year, submit to IDA for approval
proposals for construction to be undertaken during the following year.
5.06      School Building Unit.  The construction of schools and the training
of site supervisors and small-scale contractors would be the responsibility
of the Ministry of Civil Engineering's School Building Unit. This Unit is
now composed of six UN experts and associate experts, a Chadian engineer,
a Chadian "animateur" and four Chadian technicians who are responsible for
executing the UNDP pilot school project (para. 3.16 and Annex 2).
5.07      To establish the School Building Unit on a permanent basis and
enable it to implement the proposed primary school construction program, the
project would require 14 senior staff, 20 site supervisors, and support staff.
Because of a lack of qualified Chadians, six of the senior staff are expected
to be expatriates. Of these, five would be employed for two years and the
sixth, the accountant, would be employed for approximately four years -- the
anticipated life of the project. Except for some local salary costs which
would be financed by the credit, four of the expatriate staff, including the
accountant, would be financed by UNDP. The remaining two expatriate positions
would be completely financed by the credit. Details on the organization and
terms of reference of the School Building Unit staff are given in Annex 2.
A condition of credit effectiveness would be the appointment of a technical
director of the Unit with construction experience acceptable to IDA, a senior
technical adviser, an accountant, and a training expert. With the exception
of the trainer, acceptable candidates for these positions have been identified.
The Government has not yet made the legal arrangements to establish the School
Building Unit and assurances were given during negotiations that action will
be taken on this matter by December 31, 1978.
5.08      Training Program.  To enable the School Building Unit to supervise
construction on as many as 12 sites at the same time, a training program would
be started by the Unit to train 30 site supervisors during the first two years
of the project. The teaching program for site supervisors would be prepared
by the training specialists and largely conducted on the building sites. Fur-
ther, the training program would include assisting small-scale entrepreneurs
by organizing brief training sessions on bidding procedures, bid preparation
and management of construction sites. The training program would provide
technical and managerial advice to small contractors on the job. Three of the
senior posts financed under the project for the School Building Unit would be
occupied by trainers (Annex 2).



- 13 -
5.09      Designs.  The soils in Chad pose severe problems for the design
of building foundations, and it is not certain that the design used by the
School Building Unit for the UNDP pilot school project (para. 3.16) will
be suitable for all schools. While the foundation design assumed in esti-
mating costs for the proposed education project is technically sound and
economically acceptable, savings may be possible with an improved design.
As the Government does not have a foundations engineer to assist the School
Building Unit, the project would finance eight man-months of consulting
services to establish alternative economical foundation designs.
5.10      Primary school teachers.  The existing itinerant teacher training
program will be used to train the teachers at the project schools on how to
make the most efficient use of the new facilities in teaching the improved
curriculum (paras. 3.14 and 3.15). During negotiations, assurances were
given that the teachers at the project schools will be given priority in this
program.
5.11      Evaluation.  The project is designed to establish the School Build-
ing Ulnit on a permanent basis and to complete half of the building program
in 24 months at reasonable costs. If these physical objectives are achieved,
all technical assistance personnel, with the exception of the accountant,
would depart after 24 months and the project would be completed by Chadian
staff only. If these objectives are not achieved, the contracts of some
technical assistance personnel may have to be extended and the number of
schools constructed reduced to finance the additional technical assistance.
The educational objectives of the project are partly dependent upon the
introduction of a new curriculum and the establishment of a program for the
upgrading of teachers in project schools (para. 3.15). A comprehensive pro-
gram of monitoring and evaluation will be introduced to assure that both
physical and educational objectives are achieved or to adjust the project
according to implementation experience if they are not. As part of the
evaluation, the Government would review with IDA within 18 months of credit
effectiveness, the need for continued technical assistance to complete the
project. After 30 months, the Government would review with IDA the progress
toward achievement of the project's educational objectives, namely, the
introduction of a reformed curriculum and the retraining of teachers in
project schools. An acceptable plan and timetable for curriculum reform and
teacher retraining were agreed during negotiations.
Technical Secondary School Curriculum Development
5.12      The project would finance four man-years of technical assistance
to (a) revise the existing curriculum to make it more suitable for the prepa-
ration of pre-engineering students; and (b) develop a new curriculum for
technician training. It is envisaged that the new technician course would
be of three years' duration and lead to a diploma. Recruitment would be
from, among students who have completed three years of secondary education,
and those who complete the course would enter directly into industrial em-
ployment. The revised pre-engineering curriculum would also be of three
years' duration; however, it would begin after four years of secondary school
and would be designed for students who intend to continue in engineering



- 14 -
studies at the university level. The revised curricula would help to assure
that the country has a supply of industrial engineers and technicians which
the current curricula do not (para. 4.08).
Studies and Preparatory Work for Future Investments
5.13      The project would finance technical assistance to the Ministries
of Planning, Public Service and Education to undertake three studies. The
terms of reference for the studies are described in Annex 3.
(a) A study of primary education. The program would finance
four man-months of technical assistance to the Ministry
of Education to identify follow-up activities for the pro-
posed primary school construction program (paras. 5.03-5.11)
and for the ongoing projects of donors in primary education
(paras. 3.14-3.16). Important features of this study would
be an overall evaluation of the progress of curriculum reform
and an evaluation of teacher requirements, including condi-
tions of their employment. The study would be undertaken in
1981 to permit an evaluation of the achievements of INSE with
current projects (para. 5.11).
(b) A study of the financing of education and training. The
project would finance 12 man-months of technical assistance to
the Ministry of Planning, to (i) establish standards for the
financing of all major education and training institutions in
Chad, including all secondary schools and all technical and
vocational training institutions; (ii) evaluate the implica-
tions of these standards for the overall education budget; and
(iii) identify alternative means whereby the Government may
achieve a more rational allocation of resources to education.
These means may include the revision of curricula, the con-
solidation of activities and facilities, better coordination
of external aid, and the use of better financial planning
methods.
(c)  A study of public administration.  The project would finance
12 man-months of technical assistance to the Public Service
Ministry to: (i) evaluate the staffing of the public services
relative to their responsibilities, especially those concerned
with education and training; (ii) evaluate the roles of train-
ing and operational technical assistance in the public sector,
particularly in education and training; (iii) evaluate the
incentive system and career development patterns and oppor-
tunities; and (iv) identify training programs and projects.
Twenty-eight man-months of consultant services would be financed under the
project for these studies. The studies of education finance and public
administration should begin not later than the second year of the project and
the study of primary education not earlier than the third year. This phasing
reflects the urgency of problems of finance and administration and the need
to allow current activities at the primary school level to progress before
they are evaluated.



- 15 -
Staffing the Agricultural Technician Training Center at Sahr
5.14      The project would finance 72 man-months of technical assistance
to augment Chadian staff already identified by the Government and the three
expatriate staff which the Government expects to obtain from France. The addi-
tional technical assistance to be financed by IDA would help to establish the
new training programs and fill a gap while Chadians are being trained on fellow-
ships financed by bilateral donors (para. 4.07).
Project Office
5.15      The Project Office, established within the Ministry of Education
to implement the first and second projects, would coordinate the proposed
third education project. The project would finance the salaries of the
Project Director and support staff, including an accountant, and operating
costs for vehicles, internal travel for the Project Director, and office
supplies.
C. Project Costs
5.16      The cost of the project, excluding identifiable taxes, is estimated
at US$9.2 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$6.5 million, or
70% of the total project cost. The breakdown of project costs by project
item, detailed in Annex 17, is summarized as follows:



- 16 -
Project Cost Summary
% of
CFAF (million)        US$(million)             base
Project Item              Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Cost
I. Primary School
Construction
Construction of
primary schools        346      806   1,152    1.4       3.3      4.7     64
II. Establishment of
School Building Unit  141       259      400    0.6      1.1      1.7     23
III. Studies                     -       47       47      -      0.2     0.2       3
IV. Technical Education
Curriculum Development    -        71       71       -     0.3      0.3       4
IV.  Agricultural Tech-
nicians Training
Centers                     -      98       98       -     0.3      0.3      5
VT.  Project Office             24        -       24     0.1       -     0.1       1
Base cost estimates            511   1,281   1,792       2.1    5.2      7.3    100
Physical contingencies (5%)   24         74      98      0.1    0.3      0.4
Expected price
increases (20%)             123      245      368      0.5   La       1.5
Expected project costs         658   1,6Q0   2,258       2-J 7    h      9.2
5.17      The base cost estimates are for February 1978 and take account of
recent materials and labor costs in Chad. Taxes are not included in total
costs because all Government procurement excludes identifiable taxation.
The estimated average cost of construction is about US$153 per square meter or
about US$260 per student place; this compares favorably with similar construc-
tion in neighboring African countries. The cost of technical assistance is
estimated to average US$60,000 per man-year and is based on recent bilateral
and UNDP experience. The project costs include an allowance for physical
contingencies that averages 5% of the total base costs for civil works,
furniture, equipment and Personnel costs. Physical contingencies take
account of the fact that only 12 sites have been identified (paras. 5.05 and
5.09). The allowance for price increases is about 20% of base costs plus
physical contingencies, and is estimated on the basis of expected price in-
creases for civil works of 9% per year through 1980 and 8% per year through
1982, and for equipment and personnel (including technical assistance) of 7.5%
per year through 1980 and 7% per year through 1981 and 1982.



- 17 -
5.18      Project costs by category of expenditures are:
(US$ million)
% of
Local     Foreign      Total    Base Cost
Civil works                     1.3         3.1         4.4        60
Furniture                       0.1         0.2         0.3         4
Equipment                        -          0.3         0.3         4
Local salaries                  0.7          -          0.7        10
Technical assistance             -          1.6         1.6        22
Base cost                       2.1         5.2         7.3       100
Physical contingencies          0.1         0.3        0.4
Expected price increases        0.5         1.0        1.5
Total project cost              2.7        6.5          9.2
Financing of the Project
5.19      The proposed IDA credit of US$8.3 million would finance 90% of the
net--of-tax cost of the project. Because of severe budgetary constraints, the
Government is unable to make a financial contribution to the project and has
therefore acquired firm commitments from UNDP and UNCDF to finance the balance
of project costs of US$0.9 million. The signing of agreements with UNDP and
UNCDF to finance this balance would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
The breakdown of project costs by sources of finance is summarized as follows:
(US$ million)
IDA    UNDP      UNCDF    Total
Civil works                            5.4       -        0.3       5.7
Furniture, equipment and vehicles    0.7         -         -        0.7
Local staff                            0.9       -         -        0.9
Technical Assistance                   1.3      0.6        -        1.9
8.3     0.6       0.3        9.2
Except for some local salary costs which would be financed by the credit,
the UNDP grant would finance four posts for the School Building Unit, namely,
the principal technical adviser, the operations manager, the chief of the
design section, and the accountant. The United Nations Capital Development
Fund grant would finance the construction of the first three schools (see
para. 6.04 for the allocation of IDA disbursements).
Project Recurrent Costs
5.20      The project has been designed to minimize increases in the recur-
rent expenditures of the Government and to introduce a more efficient system
of primary education. The new primary schools constructed under the project
would replace or consolidate existing facilities and should not result in
substantial increases in teacher salaries. Small additional expenditures may
be required to finance teaching materials.



- 18 -
VI. IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Management
6.01      The project would be implemented by a Project Office which would
be responsible for: (a) ensuring coordination among the ministries concerned
with the project; (b) preparing the quarterly reports on progress in project
implementation; (c) preparing the claims for reimbursement; (d) recording,
analyzing and projecting quarterly expenditures for the project items and
submitting annual statements of expenditures to the Government; (e) providing
administrative support to the technical assistance personnel to be recruited
under the project for curriculum development at the Technical Secondary School
in N'Djamena, staffing the Agricultural Technician Training Center, and the
consultants undertaking the studies to be financed under the project (paras.
5.12-5.14); and (f) providing liaison between IDA and the Government
departments responsible for implementing the project.
6.02      The Project Office would be assisted by the School Building Unit
(para. 5.06), an integral part of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, that
would be responsible for primary school construction. The School Building
Unit would also procure all materials, furniture and equipment and would keep
its own accounts, which would be made available to project supervision missions
and would be subject to an annual audit (para. 6.07). The School Building
Unit would submit detailed monthly financial reports and comprehensive quar-
terly reports to the Project Office.
6.03      The project includes 332 man-months of technical assistance as
detailed in paras. 5.06-5.15 and in Annex 2. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from the Government that it will appoint technical assistance
personnel with qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employ-
ment acceptable to IDA.
B. Procurement
6.04      Civil works, estimated to cost US$4.4 million, would be for small,
widely dispersed buildings. Wherever possible, buildings would be procured
under local bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. Where local competitive
bidding would not be possible, buildings would be constructed on force account.
Orders for equipment and building materials, including materials provided to
small contractors, estimated to cost about US$2.5 million, would be grouped
wherever possible in lots of not less than US$50,000 and the contracts would
be awarded in accordance with IDA's guidelines for international competitive
bidding. Small equipment contracts amounting to less than US$50,000, and
furniture contracts totalling an estimated US$0.4 million would be awarded on
the basis of quotations or through local competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures acceptable to IDA.



- 19 -
C. Disbursements
6.05      Funds from the credit account would be disbursed as follows:
(a)  100% of expenditures for civil works - US$4.4 million;
(b)  100% of expenditures for furniture - US$0.4 million;
(c) 100% of expenditures for equipment, tools and vehicles -
US$0.4 million;
(d)  100% of expenditures for technical assistance, including the
local salaries of UNDP personnel, - US$1.0 million; and
(e)  100% of expenditures for local personnel - US$0.7 million.
US$1.4 million of the credit would be unallocated. Disbursements from the
credit for civil works would begin only after the UNCDF grant of about
US$0.3 million has been fully disbursed. Disbursements would be made against
contracts or certificates of expenditure; documentation of the latter would
not be submitted for review, but would be retained by the Government and would
be available for inspection by IDA during the course of supervision missions.
Any funds remaining undisbursed at the completion of the project would be
cancelled. Construction is expected to be completed about four years after
the signing of the Credit Agreement. The estimated schedules of disbursement
and implementation are shown in Annexes 20 and 21.
6.06      Revolving fund.  Because the Government would have difficulty in
prefinancing expenditures to be reimbursed under the credit, a revolving fund
of US$0.6 million, financed by the credit, would be established with the Chad
Development Bank and would be used to prefinance all project costs. IDA would
replenish the account upon receipt of evidence of disbursements from the fund
for allowable expenditures. Should any disbursements be made from the revolv-
ing fund which are not acceptable to IDA, the Government would deposit the
corresponding amount in the fund account. During negotiations, assurances
were given to this effect.
6.07      Accounts and audits.  The Project Office would set up an accounting
system which would reflect, in accordance with sound practices, the use of
funds for the different project components and the Project Office. A separate
account would be kept by the School Building Unit. All accounts would be
audited annually and the project would provide for the cost of audit fees.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that (a) all
accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) the
accounts and the auditors' reports would be submitted by the Project Office to
IDA within four months of the close of the Government's fiscal year; and (c)
the report of the auditors would be of such scope and in such detail as IDA
may reasonably request.



- 20 -
D.   Project Benefits and Risks
6.08      The proposed project would finance the school building component of
a larger primary education development program which also includes curriculum
development, teacher retraining and better school supervision. The program
should lead to a marked improvement in the quality and efficiency of primary
education. For its part of the program, the project would provide new schools
to replace dilapidated structures now being used by about 18,000 students who
comprise 9% of primary school enrollments. The project studies would pave the
way for much-needed improvements in the quality of public administration and,
through better financial planning, in the efficiency of the education and
training systems. The new secondary technical school curricula should help
satisfy the country's needs for industrial technicians and engineers. Techni-
cal assistance for the Agricultural Technician Training School financed under
the two prior credits would enable that institution to open.
6.09      The project could involve some risks.  Constructing a large number
of small buildings at scattered rural sites by force account or by inexperi-
enced contractors, in a country with poor communications, requires management
and technical manpower that is in short supply. The training and technical
assistance components of the project have been designed to help reduce these
risks. Also, the project would be organized to allow Government flexibility
in procurement for civil works: it would permit the Government to use build-
ing contractors, undertake force account works, or employ other methods of
building schools such as community participation in construction through local
parents' associations.
6.10      Given these safeguards and given the priority assigned to primary
education by the Government and the resources being invested by donors, the
risks of not achieving the objective of improving the quality of primary
education are small. There is little risk associated with the studies or
with the curriculum development components of the proposed project.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01  A.  Assurances.  During negotiations, asssurances were given that:
(a) the sites for all schools to be built under the project
will be acceptable to IDA and that, by April 1 of each
year, the Government will submit to IDA for approval
proposals for construction to be undertaken during the
following year (para. 5.05);
(b) by December 31, 1978, the Government will make all the
necessary legal arrangements to establish the School
Building Unit (para. 5.07);



- 21 -
(c) teachers at the project schools will be given priority
for training in the context of existing teacher training
programs (para. 5.10);
(d) should any disbursements be made from the revolving fund
established to help finance the project which are not
acceptable to IDA, the Government will be under obligation
to deposit the corresponding amount in the revolving fund
account (para. 6.06);
(e) the project accounts, with an audit report by a firm of
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, will be submitted
to IDA, within four months after the end of each fiscal
year (para. 6.07);
(f) the Government will appoint technical assistance personnel
with qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions
of employment acceptable to IDA (para. 6.03).
B. Conditions. Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a) the appointment of a senior technical adviser, an
accountant, and a training expert (para. 5.07);
(b) the appointment of a technical director of the School
Building Unit, with construction experience acceptable to
IDA (para. 5.07);
(c) the signing of agreements with UNDP and UNCDF to finance
US$0.9 million of total project cost (para. 5.19); and
(d) the receipt of plans, acceptable to IDA, for opening the
Agricultural Technician Training Center by September 1979
(para. 4.04).
7.02      Based on these assurances and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for an IDA credit of US$8.3 million.






COMPARtATIVE  EDUCATION  INDICATORS                                                   ANNEX I
I APRIL 19,1978 I
*  :GNP/  :      G NEP :  TOTAL:K   OF PUBLIC                 ::        ::PRI.  :AV.PRI.                            : :        51C
*   :CAPITL:  DEV.JTEO:PU8LIC    EDUCATION    :LITER-: P81. :COMPLE-  ASTO-  :SCH.TEACH:1-ROGRESS-: SEC.  :STU-  :HIGHEPI
*   :AT   :TO EDO.:   EKE.  :RECURRENT    :ACY                  :ENROLL:TION         :O)ENTS:SALARV  IN:InN RATE :ENROLL:DENTStENPOLL:
*   :MARKET:  1PUBLIC:DEVOTEO:EXP ALLOCATED:   RATE :RATIO  :RATE FDR:PER   :RELATION  :F-ROM PRI. :PATIO  :PER   :RATIO  
POE.  :PRICES: EKE.    :To    :              TO:        :12 Of   : NET   :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: TO GNP/  :T9 SEC. : NET   :TEACH- GROSS:
YR:MILLS.:  (USW)  ONLY) :  EOU. :PRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTSI:  (21   :CYCLEIKI:ER                        : CAPITA         (%It     : (X    :ER          I
ADVANCED
AUSTR IA          74    7.51- 4 ,38701      5 .s R1 .5EY  247   51I7   15Y    99            98        930        260       2.00D       990        510a     190    16.857
CANADA            72   22.6- 6, 9301F       7.7    19. 4      30    38    19       98       89        98         24        2.0         99         82       11 7     9.00
GERMANY F-.RCP.75   61 .8  6, 7 0           4t. 2    14.-2    31EY 31EY 19EY   99           911       991        23Ev      . ..        99C       911       221    20.Z6Yv
JAPAN             15 1 11.6  4,451)         4. 31   20. 7E    4OUY 37UY I1UY  99            990       991        25        2.08B       99C       958Y    201    24.69Y
NETHERLANOS    14   13.71- 5, 7501-         7.97   15. LY    32    45    19        99       951       951        29C       3. OC       971        73C      20C    11. 00
NEw ZEALAND    13    3.1IF 4, 280OF         5.2    . ..       39    24    29       99       99        99         26        ..          99         67       19      24.00
NORWAY            14    It..OF 6, 760OF     7.0    15. 2      487   227   137    99        102K7      98         20        1.9         99        90Kv    14        21. 31Y
SWEDEN            14    '3.21- 8,1 50OF     7 .97   13.97    38Y   137   137    99          99C       99C        17C       ...         9OC        R5C      SOC    30.00C
U.K.              12   56.01-  3 ,7801-     6.3    12.17      26    39    22       98       99         . ..      26        2.0         ...        63       11 7    11.00
U. S.A.           12 213.51-  1,120OF       6.0C    1 5.4     ...   73** 27        99       99        99         25U       2. 0        ...        93       19U    29.00
EUROPE
GREECE            76    9. 1   2, 593       2 .6    10. 4     31 7   26    21      868      99        820        3 1      2.0          TOE        80       21      15.00
IRELAND           74    3.11- 2.39SF        5.1    13.90    437   417   147    98          108KV      99A        35       ...          95A       65KY    19        15.477
PORTUGAL          75    9.6   1,570         4.4    11.8       52    21    13       70       98        55         21       3.0          73         29       14       1.60
ROMANIA           75   21.2   1,240         4.0      6.4      36    19    13       98       101       ..         21       ...          98        49        22      10.00
SPAIN             14   35..31- 2,7501-      2.413   15.28    497   227   157    94A    1157           ..         35A      ...          ...       18KY    30        11.689
ALGERIA           77   16.9      3900       1.5    14.3FY7  42    ..        1~    35        76X       45         39        4.0         55         26X      13       6.00
BENIN             74    3.11-    1301-      7.2N   36.07    410   230   100    110          44X7      708        537      25.08        438       lIKY    398        3.74Y
ROISRANA          To    3.1      410        4.0    19.2       53    20    14        3       72X       95         32        3.0         60        12       22        0.30
BURUNDII          14    3.71-    1101-      2.5    19.90    417R  417   12R    10           20K       307        38       10.0         14          2K      18       1.1)
CAMEROON          13    7.41-   2301-       5.9    20.0       387   297   177    ..         74        ...        510DY      .           .          9X      2,3CY    3.90CY
C.A.E.            74    1.61-    2201-      3.00   17.30    568   198   .... .             179Xv      25         69Y                   1            A 8    217B     3.217
CHASI             76    4.OE    120         3.0    16.0       78    22   ...       15       25        30         80       15.0         17          2X87   23        0.01BY
1ON0100(9         74    1.31-    5IDE       6.0    19.3       40    32    21       50?    133X        63         63        6.0         4         33K      22        3.40
EGYPT             14   31.21-    2601-      5.3      ...      29    36    24       40       74X       45         40       ...          64        39K      28      11.00
ETHIOPIA          16   28.3      100        2.8    15.8       28    25   '10        7       21       ...         50        ...         63          8      34
8GABOt            74    0.51- 2,540F        5.1)0   20.60    250    90   111)   ...    11)07          251        46-C      9.0         IRA        317      211      0.297
GAMBIA8           16    0.5      110        3.3    11.5       46    25      6      10       21        90         33       ...          '32       13       25
GHANA             14    9.91-    5931       ...    19.7Y    477   22Y  2070   ...           60Kv      628        307      ...          148       35XY    lACY    1.097
GUINEA            16    4.7      1801-      4.3NQ ...         3D    31    30       ...      30K       64         45        121-        56         13K      26      4.00
IVORY C)A~'[    74    6.11-    5401-        6.3    24.7       38Y   37Y  187        98      86K7      578       457       ..           ..         lY    25C        1.64Y
KENYA             16  13.8       240        v.4    26.0       67    23    10       40       807       607        34        6.0         3          16      21        1.0
LESOTHO           75    1.2      160       12.CP   23.C       49    18    20       40       85        50         52        7.0N        Ri        10       26        1.00
L11BER1R          75    1.5      410        7.4    13.2       77    1S    20       73       58        ...        35        2.0         ...       12       26       1.10A7
MAOAGASCAE        14    6.81-    2001-      3.2    22.1       51    24    25       40       68X       30         63       15.3         4,8         9K     26       1.00
MALAWI            76    5.2      140        7.4    10.0       42    18    23       25       56EX      17        52         2.4         70         4EK    20        0.26CY
MALI              75    5.11-      901-     4.2-  33.01-    45F-  371-  181-    101-        2271-     ...        481-    9.51-         5OF        63      20          .
MAURITANIA        71    1.3E    320E        4.07   20.Ov.         .      .        108       1777      ..         228A       ..         .           3Kv    24A
MAURITI'JS        76    0.PL    680         4.7    12.1       50     2              OC      94        9          24        459                   45       32        1.50
MOROCCO           14   14.71-    4701-      5.GC   16.5       44    41      9      267      54X       21         317        .          31        13X      21       2.00
NIGERIA           14   75.31-    1401       4.10Y 24.207   237   167   427    ...           49XY      ...       3407       ...         ...       10Kv    ZOCY    0.487
RWANDA            73    ,.If    1001-       3.21   2b.00.         .     .         23        52        ..         51        ..          ..          2      13       0.2317y
SENEGAL           14    5.01-    3601-      4.0N3  22.508R  5877 4277              101io    5387Y      .        46CY       ..           .         1KB    258       2.02Y
SIERRA  LEONE   77    3.u1-    2001-        3.4    23.4       31    36    30       157      34X       45        32         4.08        68         3K      21       0.5387
SOMALIA           15    6.2      110        3.10   10.81    490   160   190    503          34X       86        35        10.0        60          3       i15      0.02
SUDAN             14   13~.61-    2701-     8.07   15.07    43C   29C   28C    1SC          40Kv      751        397       4.01        25C       11Kv    20C       1.457
SWAZILANO         75    0.5      470        3.8      ---      38    31    19       50       73        71        38         3.8        51         24       22       1.00
TANZANIA          74   14.11-    1711-      5.19   17.0       36    ...   12       63       44X       ...       49         7.                      2      2ZIC     0.30
TUNISIA           73    3.61-    7301-      6.3    23.4       37    43    18       55       12        RI        41         6.0         31        14       21       3.00
UGAN0A            75   11.6      230        3.407  15.707   34EY 40EY 22EY7  25A            53KY      ...        34EY7    ...          148        6707   218       0.567
UPPER VOLTA    74    6.0-    1101-          4.0    23.9       5 9    18     9       SC      14Xv      ...       467      18.0C        201         2Kv    23C       0.157
ZAIRE             73   24.71-    1401       5.2CN 21.3C    54C  17C   29C    i5             63        38        4117       6.0        43          K       24       0.91-87
ZAMBIA            76    5.1      440        6.8    15.9       54    22    22       39       97X       a0        49         1.0         21        16       23       1.50
11-NTEAL AMERLICA ANO THE 1871681-AN
COSTA RICA        75    2.0      960        5.28   22.26    57B  255   128    898    10987            658       298        3.05       588        52XY    258    17.15Y
DOMINICAN PEP.72    4.1)    7231-           3.0    13.9       42    24    22       51       80        17        54         3.00       63         13.5    24.       7.00
EL SALVADOIR    15    4.0        460        3.6    23.8       6,1     5 22        608      65C        ...       39CY      ...         39         13X1    ZICY    4.358Y
GUATEMALA         73    6.31-    5701-      1.9    16.0       55    23    14       41       64        26        35         3.0        69          8       25       4.09Y
HAITI             76    4.7      200        1.0      8.0      41    21    11      208      251-       13        56U       3.0         62          4       ...       0.7
HONDURAS          15    2.9      3900       4.20   08.60    620   150   19G    53          78         30        35        3.0         68         71       17       4.00
JAMAICA           74    2.01- 1,1101F       7.17   20.27    397   327   197    86         111Kv       ...       397        .           .         54XY    191       6.60
MEXICO       ~~~~75   59.9)  1.050     3.100  12.000  517   267   127    16           11277      31         46        30          6357               28       87EVy
NICARAGUA         74    2.31-    7001-      2.5    14.2       61    13    13       51      65         21        37         2.0        93         17       24       7.00
TRINIDAL  1 T. 76    1.00 1,875E            3.4?.   10.80    501-  258   131    901          81       93        34        2.00        49        44        25        ..
SOUTH AMERICA
BOLIVIA           7o    5.8      3051-      5.0    17.51-........   38                      178       290       24        51-         ...         46      180      ..
BRAZIL            75 101.0   1,030          5.0    12.4       421-  201-    371   648      860        ...       271v      ..          .. .      260       1517    6.008
CHILE             75   00.3      990        3.887  12.57Y  237   107   507    ...    11987            ...       35Y       .            ..       4887      ..      16.55Y
COLOMBIA,         74   23.61-    5811-      3. 307  21.207   440v 2207  117    13         10577       20        3 37        .0        9          3677    148       6.:677y
ECUADOR           75    1.1      590        3.70   21.71.         .     .         69      102Xv       ...       381C       .          ...        38XY    141        .
GUYANA            74    0.81-    S13Eo      9.6N   14.70       7    35     1       83A      92X       39        33        6.0         19        62X      24        1.00
PARAGJAY7         74    2.61-    5801-      1.8    11.0       55    13    22      Al       82         26        30        1.9         65         17      12        5.00
PERU              75   15.4      160        4.20Y 21.70Y  407   227   15Y    12           111Kv       35        3907      3.0         70        4877    23D7   14.417
URUGUAY           75    2.8   1,300         2.5    15.3       46    34    20      94       93X        ...       24         ..         83         ...      10        .
VENEZUEL-A        73   12.01- 2, 2831-      4.6    19.9       330   280   350    178A    81           .. .      33        2.4         .. .       33       ...    12.63CY



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INOICATORS  (CONTD)                                       ANNEX I  PAGE 2
IAPRIL 19.1978 1
GNP/    I GNP   r3 OTAL:X  OF PUBLIC                      :  :          :PRI. :AV.PRI.                          :SEC
:CAPITA: DEVOTED:PUBLIC    EDUCATION    :LItER-    PRI. :COMPLE- :STU- :SCI.TEACH:PROlGRESS-: SEC. :STU)-
:AT   :TO) EDU.:  EXP.   RECURRENT    :ACY           ;ENROLL:TIDN        :DENTS:SALARY IN:ON RATE :ENROLL:DENTS:HIGHER:
:MARKET: IPUBLIC:DEVOTEO:EXP ALLOCATED:  RtATE :RATIO :RATE FDP:PER   :RELATION :FRDM PFI. :RATIO :PER  :ENROLL:
PUP. :PPICES; EXP.           TO   :.      TO.       :13 OF  . NET  :PRI.SCH. :TEACH: TO GNP/ :TO SEC.              NET   'TEACH- RATIC:
YR:MILLS.:  (USBI: ONLY)         EOU. :PRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTSl: it)  :CYCLEIXU:ER              : CAPITA        (U)        (I  :ER        (3)
(1) :: 2(Z        1 3)       '.1          (5)         (6)    :(7)        (8)       ( 9)    [LO1)       III)     :(12)  :(13) :6141
ASIA AND ICEANIA
AFGHANISTAN    74  13.7F:  1501          ..              39P  23P  L6P    to         26X       24        41       5.0        78         BE      21      1.00
BANGLAOESH       73  78.6F:   901:       1.2    20.2     445'  22Y  21Y    230       568       ...      480       ...        ...       23X0    28        .
CHINAITAIWAN) 73  16.OF-  9301:          3.2    14.0      28   41   22       82      98C       94        40      14.0         84       61C      26     20.OOC
tNDIA            15 608.1      140      2.6VY  ...       ... .... 29B    65X5'                 ...       43A      ...        ...       29XY    20AY    2. 34EY
INDONESIA        74 132.1IF   2201:     3.9F:  11.0F   69   21   10          6DB     79X       43        30       Z.OG       52        19X      14      2.00
IRAN            73  33.4F 1,660F        3.3    12.6      50B  188   128    50        77        74A       32       5.08       80A       24       32      4.32CY
IRAQ             75  11.1  1,250        6.7C   16.30P........    26C                 93XY'    ...        22        ..        ...       35XY    26C      8.47Y'
JORDAN           73   2.7F:  460F        7.0     8.8     52    15   21       59      918       76        38       5.0        84        508      22      4.00
KOREA            75  35.3      5 60      2.9    16.0R   b5    33       2    920    104X        98        52       3.5         77       55X      38       7.8
LE8ANON          72    3.2F: 1, 0 701    3 .5    18.0    39   40   10        68      86        65        19       2. 0       63        26U      25     23.00
MALAYSI8         74  12.3)-    760)F    6.4    28.0      44    31   it    AOC        R6F       90        32       4.00)      83F       44F:    278      3.OOF
NEPAL            76  IZ.oF    110F       1.1    10.0      23    20   41 L    19      59        28        31        2. 3      64         14      24       0.8
OMAN             72   0.8)- 2,300)-      1.7N    3. 8    96      -   -       20      24X       99        33       7.0        ...       0.4X    9        ..
PAKISTAN         75  69.2      160       1 .6    16.2    45   25    18       21      478       50        39       2.0        ...       171      18      6.00
PAPUA N.G.       75   2.8      4 70      5.6    16.1     38    16   24       32      577       73P       31      11.0        90        12X?    24       0.907
PHILIPPINES    74  42.2F:  380)-         7.5    14.9     73    15   12       87     1048       ...       34      15.0        ...       46X      .. .   21.00
SINGAPORE        74   2.31: 2, 450)-    2.7Y    9.2Y    395'  399  17Y'   75A    10985'        72A       31Y'     ...        99A       44XY   24        7. 68Y
SYRrA            15   7 .4     72 0      3.6   6.9       39   25   26        53      89        70        35       2.0        92        45       21     12.00
THAILAND         73  4.1.9F:  3501:     4.UNF 20.71:    65      9    15      82      878       93C       32       3.0 U      9IC       21X      24      2.00
TURKEY           73  40.21:   9001:      5.6CY 20.6CY..              .     .     .85Y'         ..        34Y'     ..          .        24Y'    270Y    5.83Y'
YEMEN            73   5.91:   2001:      0.5     4.0     45P  Z        3      0      153X      1         36       5.          52X               19      0.0585Y
YEMEN P.D.1:.   74   1. 71    2501:      3.5 By 10.985Y  79    12  ..        10      789       31        30Y'    10.0        99        195'    20       0.67Y'
SUMMARY 8CR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
NUMBER Of: COUNTRIES:                    82     77F     77   74   73        76      84        59       84          56       63        83       80       74
RANGF-:                              10.5-   (3.8-   (25- (5-  (2-    (3-         (10-     (13-      (19-       11.9-    (7-        (.4-    (9-       (.01-
12.0 I 33.0)   96 I 47)  41)   98)           133X)    99 I    69 I    25.0 I   99)             80   )  39)    23. 01
OJARTIL1:S:UPPER                      5.1    2 0.9     54    31   22      73       88        76       46          7        83        29      26       6.0
MEDIAN:                   4.0    16.2      45    23    17     50       72       55        37          4        63        16      23       2.5
LOWE~ :                   2.9    12.3      38    18    12     20       48       30        32          3        43         8      20        .9
SYMBOILS: ... 06A0') UNAVATLA6LE                A=1970 0N aEFORE             M'.CURRENT PRICES                         SOURCES:
-MAGNITUDE NIL JP NEGLIGI8LE 8=1971                             N-GDP
Q (UESTIONABLE                     C=1972                       P-INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                     COLUMNS:1 AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
INCLUDES PAET-TIME STUDENTS 0=1973                            U=CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                           OR 1BRD M4ISSIONS
~*COMB[NED RITH PRIMAPY             E=1974                       R.MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                   3 TO 14 1880 MISSIONS
**UNDER. REVIEW                     (-=1975                      S-MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                     ANO/OR UNESCO
0=1976                       T=EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                      STATISTICAL
U-PUBLIC ONLY                                                  YEARBOOK
V=INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
X=INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y-UNESCO SOURCES
--- ---------------                                                                                         ------------------------------  -------
COMPARATIVE EDUCAT ION DATA ARE1 USEF:UL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUJCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARICUS CrjUNTRIES. HOWEVER,CN THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT OATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUJTIJN. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSION4S FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES;I THE
REMAINJDER ERE STAFF ESTIMATES CP DATA F8DM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCUJRACY OF THE )ATA. NEVERTHLELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TC IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL wORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA. THE FOLLOWING QUJALIFICATiaNS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND:
III"EDUCATION" AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORtMAL I
(2)"PPIMARY EDUCATION REFEkS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND "SECONDARY" EDUICATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
(3 ("LITtERACY RATES"(CDL.6) ARE OIFTEN OATAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCDUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPRCXIMATIONS OND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UJNIFCAM DEFINITIONI OF "LITERATE" HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY;
(4("PURLrC EXPENDITURE I14 1:UCAIION"ICOLS.3,4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPE40ITURES DIEVOTED TO E-DUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND LBJASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES;
(5l'-ENROLLMENT RATIOiS")coLs 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL. PUJBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF EREOP IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIlES UWIAG TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLM4ENTS). ENPGLLRENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN  SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION  IS INDICATED   BY
)-OCTNCTES ALSO CAN INFLATE 1T1: RATIOS,



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 7
CHAD
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION COMPONENT
Objectives
1.        The major objective of this project component is to replace dilapi-
dated or consolidate existing primary school facilities, under the following
conditions:
,(a) The construction program should not lead to additional
staffing requirements in the schools;
(b) All schools should offer all six primary school classes;
(c) The design of the buildings should include storage space
for materials and provide space for practical work con-
sistent with a reformed curriculum;
(d) The construction program should use local materials and
labor to the extent that it is technically feasible and
economically efficient;
(e) In order to benefit from investment complementarities,
schools would be constructed in areas in which there are
industrial or agricultural development activities. The
higher income associated with these activities may, in
addition, assure greater local financial support for the
schools; and
(f) All schools constructed under the project would have
access to wells.
2.        The second objective of this project component is to assist the
Government of Chad to rationalize its school building program. Numerous
external aid agencies have been involved in the school building program and
all have had different conceptions for design and execution. The Government
has not had a policy with respect to school building standards. The project
would assist the Government in establishing models and norms consistent with
the curriculum which is envisaged and the country's technical and resource
capabilities.
3.        A final objective is to increase the country's capability to con-
struct school buildings in rural areas.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 7
Means
4.        The objectives would be achieved by financing the establishment of
a permanent School Building Unit within the Ministry of Civil Engineering,
specifically by providing:
(a) salaries for 8 senior Chadian staff for a total of 32
man-years;
(b) 14 man-years of technical assistance (5 experts for 10
man-years and 1 expert for approximately 4 man-years);
and
(c) a soils engineer-consultant for 8 man-months.
5.        The School Building Unit would have four sections:
(a) Design Section - responsible for producing drawings and
bidding documents, identifying small-scale contractors,
and evaluating final results; the section would monitor
all school construction to ensure adherence to official
standards and norms;
(b)  Operations Section - responsible for the supply of ma-
terials to sites, force account construction, and the
supervision and on-the-job technical training of small
contractors;
(c) Accounting and Administrative Section - responsible
for keeping accounts, monitoring the disposition of
materials; and for providing administrative services;
(d) Training Section - responsible for training 30 site super-
visors during the first and second years of the project.
With the support of other sections of the School Building
Unit, the training section will construct 24 schools as
part of the training process. The training section would
be temporary and would depart after the end of the second
year.
6.        Important features of the operations of the School Building Unit
would be as outlined below.
(a) There would be central purchasing of building materials
for schools constructed under force account or under
contracts with small-scale contractors. This would
facilitate construction in remote rural areas where small
contractors would have difficulty in marshalling material
requirements.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 7
(b) Site supervisors trained under the project would have
capabilities of undertaking force account works, of
being the Ministry of Civil Engineering official site
supervisors for works undertaken by small contractors,
and of providing technical assistance to communities
undertaking school construction on their own account.
Evaluation
7.        After 18 months, the Government would evaluate progress under the
project to determine whether the departure of all technical assistance from
Chad after two years, on schedule, would jeopardize achievement of the proj-
ect objectives. If additional technical assistance is not required, the
School Building Unit would complete construction of the remaining schools
under the project with Chadian staff only.
The Building Industry in Chad
8.        The means for executing construction under the project follow
from the appraisal mission's assessment of the capabilities of the building
industry in Chad. The mission found that constractors in the private sector
are few in number as well as expensive and that the Ministry of Public Works
lacks the manpower resources to undertake a project of this size under either
force account or through the employment of contractors. The Ministry of
Civil Engineering does not maintain a register of building contractors, and
accurate information of private sector builders will not be available until
a survey now underway is completed. There are three firms, all expatriate,
capable of undertaking large-scale works; they are located in N'Djamena and
only one has expressed an interest in undertaking scattered rural works.
There are a number of indigenous medium-sized firms, also located in N'Djamena
and with good financial standing, which have been similarly reluctant to
undertake rural works of the type envisaged in the proposed project.
9.        Even given reasonable contract prices, the Ministry of Civil Engi-
neering would be incapable of administering and supervising contractors in the
construction of all project schools. The Ministry's capacity to undertake
works on force account is also limited; several donors have undisbursed funds
outstanding against projects for some time because of the small capacity of
the Government to undertake works on force account.
10.       Donors interested in constructing rural primary schools do so
by creating their own construction units outside of Government jurisdiction.
CARE currently has a capacity to build six schools per year but has no design
capacity. The schools are built through small contractors who are provided
with materials and given close supervision. A UNDP pilot school project was
set up as a unit independent of Government and intended to follow the same
system as CARE; however, this unit is now located in the Ministry of Civil
Engineering. SWISSAID (a private Swiss foreign aid agency) constructs one or
two schools per year using a single small-scale contractor.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 7
UNDP Pilot School Project
11.       The UNDP is financing technical assistance through Project CHD/74/031
of July 1975, and materials through Project CHD/74/011 of the same date to
finance the construction of 36 primary schools before December 1978. At the
outset, this undertaking had serious problems, which have now been largely
resolved.
(a)  At appraisal, cost overruns in excess of 100% had reduced
the project from 36 to 16 schools.
(b)  The project was poorly organized, operating outside of
Government and consequently unable to use the available
knowledge of local conditions. This caused considerable
delay. The organizational problems have been resolved by
placing the project under the jurisdiction of a new School
Building Unit in the Ministry of Civil Engineering.
(c) Staffing: the expatriate technical assistance team as-
signed to the project at the outset lacked experience and
sufficient managerial capability. Some staff have been
replaced and the situation has improved.
(d) Design: there remains an unresolved problem of determin-
ing the appropriate building foundations, given Chad's
soil conditions. The performance of foundations in three
schools built before June 1977 were evaluated at the end
of the rainy reason in November 1977, and results were
satisfactory.
12.       The identification of organization, staff, design and cost issues
in the UNDP project has been useful in formulating the proposed third educa-
tion project.
Facilities to be Provided
13.       A complete school would consist of:
(a) three buildings housing two classrooms each;
(b) one building containing a practical working area with
half walls, a room where teachers may prepare their
lessons and a storage room for tools and teaching ma-
terials; and
(c)  a school garden of about one hectare.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 7
14.       The dimensions of each new building would be about 8.3 x 18.3 me-
ters to be divided into two classrooms or into a practical working area plus
storage and lesson preparation areas. The roof would be firmly attached to
the foundation by concrete, wood or metal pillars, whichever is the least
costly. The roof itself would be aluminum supported on hardwood trusses.
Floors would be constructed of concrete, of stabilized mud blocks or, depending
upon costs, of other material which would provide an economical and functional
surface. Walls would be non-loadbearing and would be constructed on reinforced
concrete foundations of stabilized solid mud blocks or of other durable water-
resistant material.
15.       Durable furniture, constructed of wood, would be provided for 60
students and teachers in each classroom. Furniture would be simply designed
so that it may be either repaired or replaced with the tools and materials avail-
able in the schools' manual work area. INSE would be responsible for produc-
ing furniture designs.
16.       The equipment provided each school would consist of the UNICEF
standard list for each primary school sufficient for a class of 30 students
plus the complete set of tools used in construction of the buildings plus
garden tools, 30 each of mattocks, rakes, hoes, spades and round-nosed
shovels.



CHAD - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TCHAD - TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
ORGANIGRAM OF SCHOOL BUILDING UNIT
ORGANIGRAMME DE L'UNITE DE CONSTRUCTION SCOLAIRE
DIRECTOR OF TOWN PLANNING AND HOUSING/
DIRECTEUR DE L'URBANISME ET DE L'HABITAT
MINISTRY OF CIVIL ENGINEERING/
MINISTERE DU GENIE CIVIL
DIRECTOR OF SCHOOL BUILDING UNIT/
DIRECTEUR DE L'UNITE DE CONSTRUCTION SCOLAIRE
MAUNAGER                     MANAGER                        MANAGER                  CHIEF
TRAINING SECTION         ACCOUNTS, ADMINISTRATION         OPERATIONS SECTION        DESIGN SECTION
CHEF                          CHEF                          CHEF                   CHiEF
SERVICE FORMATION      COMPTABILITE, ADMINISTRATION       SERVICE OPERATIONS        SECTION PROJETS
1
o I)



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 7
STAFFING OF SCHOOL BUILDING UNIT/
PERSONNEL DE L'UNITE DE CONSTRUCTION SCOLAIRE
I. Chadian Staff/Personnel de nationalite tchadienne
A. Senior Staff/Cadres
1. Technical Director (1)/Directeur technique
2. Technicians at "adjoint technique" level (4)/Techniciens de
niveau adjoint technique
(a) Two assigned to operations section/Deux rattaches a la
section "operations"
(b) One assigned to design sections/Un rattache a la section
"projets"
(c) One assigned to training unit/Un rattache a la section
"formation"
3. Accountant (1)/comptable
4. Animateur (1)
5. Engineer (1)/ingenieur
B. Junior Staff/Agents
3. Site supervisors (20) (operations section)/Surveillants de
chantiers (section operations)
4. Accounting assistants (3) (accounting section)/Aide-Comptables
(section comptabilite)
C. Support Staff/Personnel d'Appui
5. Secretary (1)/Secretaire
6. Typists (4)/Dactylos
7. Draftsmen (2)/dessinateurs
8. Watchmen (3)/Gardiens
9. Driver (4)/Chauffeur
10. Messenger (1)/Planton
II. Technical Assistance/Assistance technique
1. Senior technical adviser (architect/engineer) (1) - 24 months/
Conseiller technique principal (architecte/ingenieur) (1) - 24 mois
2. Operations manager (builder) (1) - 24 months/Directeur des opera-
tions (1) - 24 mois
3.  Chief of design section (architect) (1) - 24 months/Chef de la
section des projets (architecte) (1) - 24 mois
4. Accountant (1) - 51 months/Comptable (1) - 51 mois
5. Trainers (2) - 24 months/Formateurs (2) - 24 mois
6. Soils engineer (1) 8 months/Ingenieur en mecanique des sols (1) -
8 mois



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
CHAD
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR STUDIES
Introduction
1.        The project would finance about three man-years of consultancy
services to undertake studies in preparation for public investments in edu-
cation and training which may be financed under a fourth education project or
by donors. The first study, on primary education, would identify and begin
the preparation of a project in primary education as a follow-up on the
proposed third education project and the current activities of donors. The
study of public administration would attempt to ameliorate the results of the
lack of attention which has been given to the establishment of an efficient
career civil service by identifying projects which contribute to staff devel-
opment. The study of the finance of education and training would identify
activities, policies and, perhaps, new investments which result in a better
allocation of public funds among institutions and greater attention in
planning to the implications of public investments for Government's recurrent
budget.
Study of Primary Education
2.        Responsibility.  This study would be conducted under the supervision
of the Director of the National Institute of Educational Sciences (INSE) who
would be provided with up to four man-months of educational consulting services.
He would be responsible for recruiting the consultants, with qualifications
acceptable to IDA, and for ensuring that a report is prepared by December 31,
1981, which will serve as a basis for discussions with IDA.
3.        The report would cover the following subjects:
(a) Teacher training. The results of (i) the itinerant teacher
training program, (ii) the USAID program to train practical
subjects teachers and adult trainers in primary schools,
(iii) the continuing program at the five regional teacher
upgrading centers, and (iv) the IDA-financed Teacher
Training College in Moundou and INSE's efforts to improve
primary teacher training curricula. The study would draw
as much as possible on donor evaluations of projects which
they finance.
(b) Curriculum. The progress which has been made in (i) deter-
mining the precise content of the curriculum, (ii) trans-
lating this content into teaching materials, and (iii) co-
ordinating the primary school curriculum with the teacher
training curriculum and other teacher training activities.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
(c) Supervision. Effectiveness of school supervision as
measured by frequency and duration of visits to primary
schools, attitude of school teachers regarding the help-
fulness of supervisors, and judgments with respect to
their effectiveness in introducing the new curriculum.
I(d) School Building Program. The results of the UNDP pilot
primary school project and the primary school building
component of the IDA third education project. Compre-
hensive evaluations of the IDA school building project
would be available and would serve as a basis for this
part of the report. In addition, the study would give
close attention to (i) criteria for site selection, (ii)
community attitudes toward the new schools as reflected
in initiatives to assist school operations, participate
in school programs, or otherwise use school facilities.
(e) Self-evaluation of INSE. The report would summarize prog-
ress and identify problems encountered in establishing
INSE as an institution for the reform and upgrading of
education in Chad.
(f) Recommendations. The recommendations would have two parts,
the first concerning policies and procedures and the second
identifying projects which would promote the further
development of primary education. The proposed projects
would be described specifically in terms of objectives,
means by which objectives would be achieved, and initial
costing. If new buildings are contemplated, it is
anticipated that the new School Building Unit, assisted
under the proposed third education project, would assist
in the development of the description of facilities.
Study of Public Administration
4.        The study of public administration would be supervised by the
Ministry of Establishments, which would establish an interministerial com-
mittee to assist consultants in their work and to review final results. He
would be provided with up to 16 man-months of expert consulting services on
public administration to prepare a report which would serve as a basis for
discussions with IDA.
5.        The report would cover the following subjects, with particular
reference to their training and manpower implications:
(a)  The age structure of the civil service and its implica-
tions for the normal career development of junior staff;
(b) The education and training profile of civil servants by
age and rank;



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
(c)  Incentives - in particular, salaries and amenities and
their relationship to work performance and the compe-
titiveness of the civil service vis-a-vis the private
sector and parastatal organizations;
(d)  Technical assistance:  The use of expatriates in the
public sector. In particular: Do expatriates employed
on technical assistance terms have an explicit train-
ing role?  Has it been effective?  Does the use of ex-
patriates in fact retard the career development of
staff by eliminating responsibility and opportunities
for interesting and important work?
(e)  Criteria upon which promotion is based;
(f)  Personnel administration.  Description of how personnel
are administered in the civil service, including:
(i) the structure and staffing of personnel admin-
istration;
(ii) the coordination of technical assistance with
overall staffing needs;
(iii) provisions for training including in-service
training; and
(iv) attention given to the career development of
individuals;
(g) Recommendations. Recommendations from this study are
likely to be far ranging and it is anticipated that one
of the major recommendations will be for the establish-
ment of means for a more intensive evaluation of the
subjects covered. If so, the recommendations should
include a project description identifying tasks to be
performed, organization of the evaluation, technical
assistance requirements and the desired form of the
final results. Particular attention should be given
to the implications of study results for in-service
staff training, the organization and administration
of training and fellowships, and the strengthening of
personnel administration within the civil service. The
recommendations should describe, as precisely as possi-
ble, projects in these areas.
Study of Education Finance
6.        Responsibility.  This study would be conducted by consultants under
the supervision of the Director of Planning. The study would require up
to 10 man-months of consulting services and would result in a report which
would serve as a basis for discussions with IDA.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
7.        The need for this study is based upon the following observations:
(a) The recurrent budgetary allocations to educational and
training institutions have not increased proportionately
to increases in prices or to increases in enrollments.
The consequence has been a decline for over a period of
a decade in total real expenditures on education and an
ever more precipitous decline in real expenditures per
student.
(b) The operations of new facilities must compete with ongoing
activities for funds available in the recurrent budget.
(c) Results of (a) and (b) have been:
(i)  a lack of materials and staff;
(ii) a lack of maintenance of facilities;
(iii) a possible decline in quality at some institu-
tions; and
(iv) the emerging possibility that the operations
of ongoing activities with high development
priorities suffer as a consequence of the
establishment of new activities with lower
development priorities.
8.        The purpose of the study would be to assess the results of the
long-term financial deprivation of education and training with a view to
identifying policies which may result in a better use of external aid and
recurrent budgetary resources. The report would cover the following sub-
jects:
(a) Levels of recurrent expenditures at all major education
and training institutions for the last five years for
personnel, material, equipment, maintenance, and boarding.
Primary education and general secondary education would
be in separate categories;
(b) Levels of recurrent expenditures required to operate
major institutions for the purposes for which they were
designed for the same categories as in (a);
(c) Evaluation of the implications of new investments on the
finance of ongoing operations, using historical evidence;
(d) Analysis of (a), (b) and (c); and
(e) Assessment of the diversion of resources from priority activities.



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5
9.        Recommendations would be made on:
(a) the consolidation of ongoing activities;
(b) the criteria for undertaking new investments;
(c) the design of new projects, in particular the desir-
ability of including recurrent financing within projects;
(d)  the need for a deferred maintenance project or a project
to establish supplies for recurrently financed items; and -
(e) the need and means for better coordination of donors.
Items (a), (d) and/or (e) may have project implications. If so, they should
be described as specifically as possible.



CHAD/TCHAD
ORGANIGRAM OF THE MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION, CULTURE, YOUTH AND SPORTS
ORGANIGRAMME DU MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION NATIONALE, DE LA CULTURE, DE LA JEUNESSE ET DES SPORTS
tINISTERE  E L SDJCATIt; NATItNkei, DE LA GUIJ-WSE, |
DE LA YE_UN_ _SE & DEiS S:CFS/
MIvNISTRY OF HATTX:AL EDUJCATTONI, CMIULlRE, YOUTH &
Cubir et!                           ~~~~~~~~Secr4tariat G4neal                                    nSpectian  QedUOqa
os.KI~o  )fNe  O ATSecre-Ariat  CUadlmiE  InYpeUt &
Drection de i'Enseignement         Direction de 1iEnsei-        Direction de i'Ensei-            Direction des Af-       Drection de 1a  eu-    Institut Pt;dagogique    Service de i'Ensei-
Suptrieur & de ia Recherche/         gnement Secondaire/         gnement El Sentaire/            faires  nulturelies/      nesse I des S r s!        tit    National/            gne'ent Technique/
Division of Higher Educatton        Division of Secondary        Division of Element-            Division of Cultural    Division of Youth &         National Pedagogical    Technical Education
and Fesearrh                      Educat.tn                 ary Fducation                     Affairs                    Sports                    Institute                   Unit
institut National I                      Service  des                                                                 Departement de la Forma-    DePartement   D.partement de    De   tent dee
des Sciences   } 0 nivers noerrsts &                                                                                tion & da Recyclage des           de la         la Formatioi Ioyen                  |
Hu-iat es/        University      d'3rtertatlon/                                                                        Enseignants/             Recherche/         Continue/
N-tion.l Institute                      S.hol-hips &                                                                                                                   Department of            Moans
of Human Sciences (!Iudance Unit   -                                                                                  Department of Training &         Research         Long-Life            Dearten
_InSemice Training           Department        Education
|                                              dEA~~~~~~~~~~~~~elnthre Nta%jntal /
I                                            l    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~National
0|   |r/Literacy Centre
Urite of TEahingine           Bureau Gi Text-           S lanine d       nit           erdgetd  3"cger                         o desonerUit
..t      A-bic                 .  tunts                                                SuatppS..[ii-es    Enit                                                                  ni
iConsission Uationale
pour l Unesco/
National Cocarisston
for Unesco
D'apris le decret 225 portant organisation du Ministere de l Education Nationale, de la Culture, de la Jeunesse et des Sports./
Frcn Decree 225 concerning the reorganization of the Ministry of National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports.



PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ENROLLMENT 1975/76
1/   2t
Secondary Education
2,507                 224
1/   2/
Secondary Education                                         2,456                 289
2,925                 384
3,906  |                            ______324
4~~~~~~~~,1
13,482    ~ ~   4130
Primary Education                               Meice de a Pl
et de a carte sl a                                                Giirls
1/ Dtfrm "Esinmn Prtsat not ava.Ilal
51,000      45,000                          30,000                           15,000                     3, 000    I      3,000                     1,000        21,6000
Source: Data in Statistiques Scolaires 1975/1976 on Primary and Secondary Education (MENCJS - Service de la Planification
et de la carte scolairel.
1/ Data from "Enseignement Protestant" not available
2/ Number of girls not available for Lycees Eboue, Abeche and Faya, and for CEG of Am. Timan, Doba, Lai
World Bank-17832



CHAD
EVOLUTION OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PRIMARY EDUCATION AND OF PUBLIC SECONDARY EDUCATION
1965/66-1975/76
000 students
T
250
200
150
Public Primary
100 
250
45 -
30,/
20
D7                                                                           Private Primary               ,j
*0                                     Public ~~~~~~~~~~Secondary
___I___I___                       I     III                                I      I      I     J I  I             I     I          I     I      _J I
1954    55    56    57    58    59    60          61    62     63    64    65    66    67         68    69      70    71    72    73        74    75    76           a
From data in Annexes 6 and 12
World Bank-17833



CHAD - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION   SYSTEM (1975-1976)
Primary                         First Cycle Seconidary    ISecond Cycle Secondary,           Post Secondary and Uniiversity
V Vielfare and Domestic Sciences School
Nurses and Midwives School
Apprenticeship Centers
T  Technical Secondary School
Technical                                           1     2d 3en                                       1
Education                                      Professionnal Training & In training
Center                   - 
Technical Commercial Iycee
Technical industrial lycee
General Secondary                                                  Lavv Capacity
J uili}r sec o nd a ry sch o s                                     2  G e n e ra l   S ec o n d a ry    L egal  S cien ces
Gueneraln                                                                                                                    EconoTeachers Training  1  mics and Management
Education                                                                                   Shostechinics
l FJL                       1   2 1           Modern Humanities anid
Teachers Training Section A beche Lycee                                          Human Sciences
-0 .0 --a                            1       2 Exact and Biological Sciences
. ,                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nzitional School of Administration
AF)                  -                0
School of Public Works
Specialized
Agricultural                                                               Telecommunications School
Educa tion                                                             1                 |      
National School of Police
Veterinary medicine School
zB            iEk  ~~~~~Agricultural Technicians  Vtlnl   e  ieSho
entrance Examination             Agricultural School (M'Ba-Illi)   Training College (Sarh)
O Examination P
r iProject                                                         National School of Lovver Levels Animals
Husbandry Technicians
School year/Grade 1>     2      3      4     5      6   I    7        8        9      10       11    12    13          14    15    16
Agel                                       ~                                                                         
6     7    ,8       9      b0    11         12    13        14     15       16    17    18           19    20    21
World Bank-17834



ANNEX 8
CHAD - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF TRAINING SCHEMES 1975-1976
School     No. of         Teaching Staff               Enrollment
years/      Schools/    Total   Females!            Totil      Females/
Annee       Nombre    Per6onuel enseignant            Effectifs
Types of Training/Formation                                      rcolaire    d'ecoles    Total   Femmes                Total      Femmaes
First Level/Enseignement elementaire
Primary schools, public/Ecoles primaires, publiques            1975/76         633*      2,513      134            190,816    47,700
Primary schools, private/Ecoles primaires, priv6es             1975/76          43*        -         -               11,364      5,653
Second Level/Enseignement secondaire
General /Genera I
First cycle/Premier cycle
Lycees, public/Lyc6es, publics                                 1975/76            7        213 2/  000                3,972        587
Junior secondary schools, public/CollIges d'enseignement  1975/76               21         186      000               8,413        446
general (CEG), publics
Lycees, private/Lycees, prives                                 1975/76
Junior secondary schools, private/Colleges d'enseigne-    1975/76                5*         55 2/   30*                 669        425
ment general (CEG), prives 1/
Second cycle/Deuxieme cycle
Lycees, public/Lycees,publics                                  1975/76            6           -     000               1,842
Lycees, private/Lycees, prives                                 1975/76            2           -     000                 126         35
Vocational and Technical/Enseignement technique et
Formation professionnelle
First cycle/Premier cycle
Technical Commercial Lycee/Lyc6e Technique Commercial          1975/76            1        000      000                  47        000
Technical Industrial Lycee/Lycee Technique Industriel          1975/76            1          21 2/  000                  61         0
Agricultural school (Ba-Illy)/College d'enseignement           1975/76            1           9 2/   -                   88         0
des techniques agricoles (Ba-Illy)
Apprenticeship centres/Centres d'apprentissage                 1973/74            9          19      -                  201         -
Agric. training and in-training centre/Centre de
formation professionnelle agricole (CFPA)                   1973/74            1          10       -                   65         -
Nursing and Midwives centres/Ecole Nationale des
Infirmiers, Infirmieres accoucheuses                         1974/75           1         000      000                 118         16
Second :ycle/Deusi6me cycle
Technical Coamsercial Lycee/Lycee Technique eommercial         1975/76            1        000      0000                514        000
TechnicalI industrial Lycee/Lycee Technique Industriel         1975/76            1          21 2/   -                   52         0
National School of Administration (Ist cycle)/
Ecole Nationale d'Administration (ler cycle)
Telecomnunications School/Ecole Nationale des tele-
communications                                               1974/75           1         000      000                 39          -
Public Works School/Ecole Nationale des Travaux
publics                                                      1975/76            1        000       -                 Ill          0
National School of Lower Level Animal Husbandry Techni-
cians/Ecole Nationale des Agents Techniques de l'Ele-   1975/76                 1        000      000                102          -
vage
Agriculture Technician Training Center (2nd cycle)
Centre de formation de techniciens agricoles (2e             1975/76            1             2/   -                  39          -
cycle)
National School of Police/Ecole Nationale de Police            1975/76            1         000     000                132         000
Teacher Training/Formation des maitres
Teacher Training Colleges/Ecoles Normales                      1975/76            2          18 4/    2                319         000
Teacher Training Section, Abeche Lycee/Section Normale
du Lyc6e d'Abeche                                            1975/76            1           5 5/    0                 43         000
In-service Teacher Training Centres/Centres de Perfec-
tionnement pedagogique                                       1975/76            5          22 6/    0                420         000
Higher Education/Enseignement Superieur
National School of Administration (2nd and 3rd cycles)/
Ecole Nationale d'Administration (2e et 3e cycles)           1974/75            1         000      000               111          0
University/Universite: 3/                                     1975/76            1         000       000               547          29
Arts, Languages and Human Sciences Institute/Institut
des lettres, des Langues et des Sciences Humaines            1975/76            1         000      000               193          14
Sciences Institute/Institut des Sciences exactes et
appliquees                                                  1975/76            1         000       000               82           4
Law and Economics Institute/Institut des Sciences
juridiques, economiques et de gestion                        1975/76            1         000                        27,2         11
Veterinary Medicine School/Institut Zootechnique
vdted-inaire                                                 1975/76            1         000        -                 30          0
Students abroad on scholarships/Etudiants boursiers ai
l'Stranger                                                   1975/76                                                 547         29
*Data given in "Statistiques scolaires 1974/75" by "Service de la Planification et de la Carte scolaire."/D' aprds les donnees
des "Statistiques scolaires 1974/75" du "Service de la Planification et de la Carte scolaire."
1/  Data rot available for Protestant education/Donnees non disponibles pour 1'enseignement protestant
2/  Number available for primary and secondary levels/Chiffres disponibles pour les niveaux primaires et secondaires
3/  Total of the number of University students/Nombre total des etudiants universitaires
74/  Of which 16 expatriates/Dont 16 expatries
5/  Of which 3 expatriates/Dont 3 expatries
6/  Of which 11 expatriates/Dont 11 expatries
000 Data niot available



ANNEX 9
CHAD/TCHAD
TRENDS IN PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT 1964/65-1975/76/
EVOLUTION DES EFFECTIFS DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 1964/65-1975/76
Year/       CP1       CP2       CEI       CE2       CM1       CM2     Total
Ann'ee_     _ _      _ _ _    _ _ _      _ __      _ _ _    _ _ _     _ _  _
1964/65    68,322    27,482    18,735    13,838    10,111     9,394   147,852
1965/66    73,840    30,689    20,784    15,056    11,858    11,735   163,962
1966/67    70,598    32,280    23,275    17,163    13,424    14,771   172,485
1967/68    74,462    33,252    24,823    17,232    13,940    14,990   178,699
1968/69    72,865    34,060    24,352    17,493    14,439    15,685   178,894
1969/70    59,390    29,764    22,357    16,296    13,907    17,353   159,067
1970/71    70,821    32,900    24,908    17,634    15,852    21,135   183,250
1971/72    67,416    33,872    25,994    18,889    16,739    20,930   183,840
1972/73    72,770    37,904    28,135    19,058    17,397    22,978   198,242
1973/74    71,451    38,377    27,791    18,918    17,220    24,273   198,030
1974/75    67,000    37,729    28.812    19,162    17,028    22,994   192,725
1975/76    71,142    38,170    30,503    19,709    17,612    25,o44   202,180
Source: Ministere de 1'Education Nationale, de la Culture, de la Jeunesse et
des Sports, Service de la Planification et de la Carte Scolaire -
Statistiques Scolaires 1975-1976 on primary education.



CHAD/TCHAD
Academic Year 1975/76/Annee scolaire 1975/76
Primary Education/Enseignement primaire
Distribution of Pupils by Grade. Birth Year and Age (Public and Private Educations)/
Repartition des 6leves par annee d'etudes, ann6e de naissance et age (enseignement priv6 et public)
Birth Year/Ann6e de    Age              CP1        CP2        CE1        CE2        CMl1       CM2
naissance            1-1-1976        1st gr.   2nd gr.   3rd gr.   4th gr.   5th gr.   6th gr.    Total             M
1970 and before/  5 years and -   2,935           83         51        -          _          _        3,o69      1.52
et avant
1969               6 years         21,056      1,570        419         55        -          -       23,100    11.44
1968               7 years         22,055      7,385      1,340        145         27         78    31,030    15.36
1967               8 years         13,606    10,074       3,900        730         82        368    28,760    14.24
1966               9 years          7,068      8,943      6,678      2,190        494        672    26,045    12.89
1965               10 years         3,073      5,570      7,083      4,222      2,269      1,312    23,529    11.65
1964               11 years         1,339      2,692      5,049      4,716      3,841      3,080    20,717    10.26
1963               12 years              8     1,646      3,299      3,771      4,827      6,232    19,783       9.79
1962               13 years              1          5     1,794      2,520      3,514      7,651    15,485       7.67
1961               14 years                         2       889      1,352      1,582      4,317      8,142      4.03
1960               15 years                                   1          5        725      1,012      1,743      0.86
1959               16 years                                              3        203        236        442      0.22
1958 and after/   17 years and +                                                   61         73        134      0.07
et apres
Total                              71,141    37,970    30,503    19,709    17,625    25,031   201,979   100.0
Source:  14inist6re de l'Education Nationale, de la Culture, de la Jeunesse et des Sports, Service de la
Planification et de la Carte Scolaire - Statistiques Scolaires 1975-1976 on primary education.



CHAD/TCHAD
PRIMARY EDUCATION - 1975/76/ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE - 1975/76
(The figures are the number of pupils enrolled in primary schools by prefecture. The surfaces are proportional to these numbers)j
(Les nombres correspondent aaix effectifs des ecoles primaires par prefecture.  Les surfaces sopt proportionnelles a ces effectifs)
FKanem
< Lac 12,24 2
,< _                           _   S~~~~~~~~~~~~I,ET
Batha
Chari-Baguirnmi                                         3,364
30,580Bitn
Ouaddai
Cuera           4,713
6,199
Mayo-Kebbi
36,121
Tandiile                        Moyen-Chari
20,265                              40,869
Logone-Occidental 
23,680        .  
Logone Oriental
28,B900
From data of Annex 9/D'apres les donnees de l'Annexe 9.



ANNEX12
CHAD/TCHAD
SCHOOLING RATE IN 1975/76/TAUX DE SCOLARISATION EN 1975/76
School-age                   Enrollment
Total        Population/    Enrollments/ Rate/
,Population   Population      Population   Taux de
30.6.75      Scolarisable   Scolarisee   Scolarisation
Batha                350,000        70,000           3,364          4.8
B.E.T.                84,ooo        16,800           1,348         8.0
Biltine              154,000        30,800           1,665          5.4
Chari-Baguirmi       552,000      110,400          30,580         27.7
Guera                189,000        37,800           6,199        16.4
Kanem                202,000        40,400           2,242          5.5
Lac                  136,000        27,200          1,505          5.5
Logone occidental   268,000         53,600         23,680         44.1
LogorLe oriental     296,000        59,200         28,900         48.8
Mayo-Kebbi           592,000      118,400           36,121        30.5
Moyeri-Chari         454,000        90,800          40,869        45.0
OuadxiaT             367,000       73,400           4,713          6.4
Salamat               99,000       19,800           2,041         10.3
Tand,jile            287,000        57,400         20,265         35.3
R. of Chad        4,030,000       806,000         203,528         25.3
Source: Ministere de 1'Education Nationale, de la Culture, de la Jeunesse et
des Sports, Service de la Planification et de la Carte Scolaire -
Statistiques Scolaires 1975-1976 on primary education.



CHAD/TCHAD
Public Primary Education/Enseignement Primaire Public
Percentage of PRepetition by Prefecture, Grade, and Sex/
Pourcentage de redoublement par pr6efecture, annee d'etudes et par sexe
Academic Year 1975-1976/Annee Scolaire 1975-1976
CPl            CP2              CFl             CE2             CM1             CM2           Total
Boys/ Girls/   Boys/ Girls/   Boys/ Girls/   Boys/ Girls/   Boys/ Girls/   Boys/ Girls/   Boys/ Girls/
PREFECTURES     Gargons FiJ-les Gargons Filles Gargons Filles Garcons Filles Gargons Filles Gargons Filles Gargons Filles
Batha              34.5   42.6    21.7   19.8    24.0   24.0    11.5    7.4    23.3    8.0    28.3   38.7    27.2   28.9
B.E.T.              ...    ...             ...      ...    . .. .   ...     ...     .. ..   ...     ...                     " '1/
Biltine            26.9   40.9    23.7   39.5    21.6   29.2    23.3   31.8    18.5   50.0    39.8   44.0    25.7   38.6
Chari-Baguirmi    49.9   48.7    30.3   36.8    29.8   34.9    24.7   28.3    27.2   26.o    53.1   45.7    37.9   39.0
Guera              36.2   41.8    33.2   29.2    28.5   39.5    22.0   23.1    23.4   21.1    61.6   64.o    34.9   37.7
Kanem              36.2   36.2    32.3   25.2    26.o   15.9    23.3   15.8    26.4   17.1    56.2   27.6    34.7   28.2
Lac                46.3   53.1    23.3   25.3    28.1   20.4    13.7   20.7    23.8   17.6    51.4   30.8    35.0   39.1
Logone Occidental 35.7   38.4    36.2   38.6    33.7   32.8    28.2   28.7    26.9   29.7    62.3   55.6    37.7   37.3
Logone Oriental   42.2   36.7    39.8   4o.4    38.1   35.6    32.8   32.6    39.9   35.8    65.9   55.1    43.7   38.3
Mayo-Kebbi         41.4   45.6    33.7   37.4    32.1   38.2    26.9   39.9    37.6   38.9    54.0   48.6    38.6   41.9
Moyen-Chari        46.4   43.9    40.6   41.9    31.5   41.3    36.o   40.7    38.1   38.6    66.6   63.5    44.5   44.1
OuaddaI            32.0   42.1    31.4   32.4    27.8   42.2    25.1   21.0    29.6   37.5    50.8   61.0    32.5   39.5
Salamat            33.2   40.2    19.7   32.4    18.2   17.9    23.8   29.3    21.8   13.6    31.9   44.8    26.3   34.4
Tanjil&            37.6   32.9    25.7   32.7    26.9   33.0    18.9   20.8    20.6   26.3    48.5   39.2    32.1   32.0
Chad               41.2   42.2    18.3   37.5    31.5   36.1    18.8   31.7    32.6   31.7    58.7   53.0    38.5   39.4
1/ Data not available/donnees non disponibles
Source: Ministere de 1'Education Nationale, de la Culture, de la Jeunesse et des Sports, Service de la
Planification et de la Carte Scolaire - Statistiques Scolaires 1975-1976 on primary education.



ANNEX 14
CHAD/TCHAD
Teaching Staff in Public Primary Schools by Qualification and "Prefecture"/
Personnel enseignant dans les ecoles primaires publiques par qualification et par
prefecture
1975/76
Instruc-
Qualifications   Teacher/  Assistant    Higher             Certified   Instruc-   tor Under    Teacher
Institu-  Teacher/       Instructor/  Instructor/ tor/            Contract/    Specialist/
teur       Instituteur  Moniteur        Moniteur    Moniteur   Moniteur         Instituteur
_   ________  Ad;oint         Superieur    Brevete         Titulaire  Contractuel  Specialise   Total
Batha                  925                        16            6            18           --74
100%            12%           34%           22%           8%           24%
B.E.T.                 3            16             3            1             4            -             -           27
100%            11%           59%           11%           4%           15%
Biltine                6           16              9           3              3            -             1           38
100%            16%           42%           24%           8%             8%                         2%
Chari Baguirmi        47            77            88          60             50          17              4          343
100%            14%           22%           26%          17%           15%           5%             1%
Guera                  8            14            11           19             8            -             2           62
100%            13%           23%           18%          30%           13%                          3%
Kanem                  6            15            11           11             8            -             5           56
100%            11%           26%           20%          20%           14%                          9%
Lac                    6            15            15            8            12            1             3           60
100%            10%           25%           25%          13%           20%           2%            5%
Logone Occ.           20            68            70           34            58            1             2          253
100%              8%          27%            27.5%       13%           23%           0.5%           1%
Logone Or.            13            50            44           43            53            2             5          210
100%              6%          24%           21%          20%           25%           1%            2%
Mayo Kebbi            53            79           108           58            89            4             7          398
100%             13%          20%            27%         15%           22%           1%            2%
Moyen Chari           63           126           182         105            167            6            11          660
100%             10%          19%           27%          16%           25%           1%            2%
Ouaddai               11            44            23           11            17            -                        106
100%             10%          42%           22%          10%           16%
Salamat                4            17             6           6              2           -              -           35
100%            11%           49%           17%          17%            6%
Tandjile              13            48            38          24             60           4              3          190
100%              7%          25%           20%          13%           31%           2%            2%
TCHAD                262           610           624         389            549          35             43        2,512
100%             10%          24%           26%          15%           22%           1%            2%
Source:  Same as Annex 8



ANNEX 15
CHAD/TCHAD
Trends in Secondary Education Enrollment 1964/1965-1975/1976
Evolution des effectifs de 1'Enseignement secondaire 1964/1965-1975/1976
Public and Private/Public et Prive
Total                      Termi-            Total
6e     5e        4e        3e    lower      2e       lere   nale      Total   2e
Year    7th Gr  8th Gr   9th Gr  10th Gr  cycle  11th Gr  12th Gr  13th Gr  1 + 2   cycle
1964-65   1,538   1,120       845      484    3,989    163        118        50     4,320    331
1965-66   1,862   1,471   1,026       739    5,098    186         125        46     5,455    357
1966-67   3,033   1,928   1,436   1,087    7,544    319            98        91     7,992    508
1967-68   2,240   2,438   1,570   1,338    7,586    340           183       108     8,222    636
1968-69   2,374   2,247   1,913   1,338    7,842    516           182       154,    8,724    852
1969-70   2,377   2,059   1,787   1,346    7,569    543           211       181     8,504    935
1970-71   2,665   2,205   1,811   1,328    8,o0g    635           298      230      9,172  1,163
1971-72   2,247   2,583   1,913   1,502    8,247    510           347       316     9,418) 1,173
1972-73   2,460   2,379   2,493   2,065    9,397    762           604       494    11,2571 1,860
1973-74   2,819   2,486   2,320   2,069    9,694    788           521      425    11,418  1,724
1974-75   3,374   2,818   2,643   2,491   11,326    718           466       375    12,885  1,559
1975-'76   4,085   3,114   2,561   2,625   12,385    769          660       221    14,035  1,650
1, Data not available for private education for these 2 years/donnees non disponibles
pour l'enseignement prive pour ces 2 annees
Source: Ministere de 1'Education Nationale, de la Culture, de la Jeunesse et des
Sports, Service de la Planification et de la Carte Scolaire - Statistiques
Scolaires 1975-1976 on primary education.



ANNEX 16
CHiAD/TCHAD
EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION 1970-1976/DEPENSES D'EDUCATION 1970-1976
(CFAF/FCFA Million)
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976
Ministry of' Education Budget
Budget du Ministere de l'Edu-  1,347    1,281   1,319   1,326   1,384   1,500   1,751
cation Nationale
Fellowships/Bourses               397      302      352     357     444  )        )
)       )
Local contributions to                                                   )
communities/                                                                   )
Contributions domestiques         162      147     124      142     116  ) 8511/)1,0511/
aux communautes                                                       )        )
)       )
Grants to Private Schools/         37       40      4o       40      40  )        )
Subventions aux ecoles prives
Total Education                 1,943    1,770   1,835   1,865   1,984   2,351   2,802
Total Budget                   14,914   13,445  13,228  14,379  17,810  16,720  17,090
As percent of Tabal-Budget %       13       13      14       13      10      14       16
Proportion des depenses
d'education dans le
budget total
Source: Mission Estimates
Note:
1/ In addition to Fellowships, Expenditures of Local Communities, Grants to Private
Schools, the figures for 1975 and 1976 include the expenditures of other
Ministries on training/En plus des bourses, des depenses des communautes locales,
desi subventions aux ecoles privees, les chiffres pour 1975 et 1976 incluent les
depenses consacrees a la formation des autres ministeres.
BUDGET OF MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AT CONSTANT (1970) PRICES
BUDGET DU MINISTtRE DE L'EDUCATION NATIONALE A PRIX CONSTANTS (1970)
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976
Ministry of Education at
constant prices            1,347   1,208   1,127   1,052    989       926     984
IMinistere de l'Education
Nationale a prix constants
(Index 1970 = 100)              100      106     117     126    1140     162     178
Source: Mission Estimates



CHAD/TCHAD
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
COST SUMMARY/TABLEAU SOMMAIRE DES COUTS
COST US$/COUTS $EU
Area of                                         Salaries   Technical
Construction/                                   Chadian    Assist-
Surfaces                              Equip-   Staff/       ance/
a                          Fur-       ment      Salaires   Assis-
Construire      Cons-      niture    Equipe-  Personnel  tance
(m2)         truction  Mobilier  ment        Chadien    Technique   Total
I. Primary School Construction/
Construction d'Ecoles Primaires
51 Primary Schools/51 Ecoles primaires              30,600         4,380        268        51                              4,699
II. School Building Unit/Unite de Construction
scolaire                                                                                270        603          840      1,713
III. Studies/Etudes                                                                                                    164        164
IV. Curriculum Development for Technical Edu-.
cation/Elaboration des Programmes pour
1'Enseignement Technique                                                                                         262        262
V.   Agricultural Technician  Training Center/
Centre de Form.ation de techniciens agri-
coles                                                                                                            360        360
VI.  Project Office/Bureau du Projet                                                             7        101           23        131
Base Line Cost (excluding taxes)/Coult de base (taxes exclues)         4,380        268       328        704        1,649      7,329
Physical Contingencies/Imprevus - Quantites                              249         13        16         35           80        393
Expected Price Increases/Augmentation des prix                         1,000         45        55        118          260      1,478
Total Cost Including contingencies/Cout total
imprevus inclus                                                      5,629        326       399        857        1,989      9,200
Foreign Exchange %/Devises etrangeres                                     70         75       100          0          100          71
Amount/Montant                                                         3,940        245       399          0        1,989      6,573    m
Share of Total Foreign Exchange Amount/                                                                                                 X
Pourcentage du montant total des Devises etrangeres                       61          4         6          0            29        100   _



CHAD/TCHAD
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
ASSUMED PRICE INCREASES 1978-1982/AUGMENTATION PRESUMEE DES PRIX 1978-1982
1978            1979             1980             1981             1982             1983
Local Foreign Local Foreign Local Foreign Local Foreign Local Foreign Local Foreign
Civil Works/
Genie Civil              9.0      9.0     9.0      9.0     8.0     8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0     8.0
Furniture/
Mobilier                  7.5     7.5     7.5      7.5     7.0      7.0     7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0
Equipment/
Equipement                7.5     7.5     7.5      7.5     7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0
Technical Assistance/
Assistance technique      9.0     9.0     9.0      9.0     8.0     8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0     8.0



CHAD/TCHAD
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
DISBURSEMENTS BY MAJOR CATEGORIES OF EXPENDITURES/DECAISSEMENTS PAR CATEGORIES OF EXPENDITURES
(US$000/$EUOOo)
Total
CATEGORY               1979                 1980                 1981                  1982                  1983    Disbursements
____                 ____           I ~~~~~~~Incl.
1    2   3    4    1    2    3    4                 1    2 3    4    1    2   FT i        2     3  Contingencies
1. Civil Works!                                                         4
Genie civil          200 210  210  210  430  440  450  460  470  470  480  490  500  500                            1   5,520
2. Furniture/
Mobilier              60  60   20   20   20   20   10   10   10   10   10   30   20   10                                   310
3. Equipment/
Equipement           110 120   90   50                                                                                    370
4. Technical
Assistance!
Assistance 
technique        90   90 130  130  130  130  100  100   40   40   40   40   40   20   20   20   30                      1,190
5. Local Staff/                                                                                   l
Personnel
Tchadien         50   60  60   60   50   50   50   50   50   50   50   50   50   50   60   60   60                        910
TOTAL         140  520 580  510  460  630  610  610  560  570  570  580  610  590  590   80   90                      8,300
z
z



ANNEX 20
CHAD/TCHAD
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS/CALENDRIER DES DECAISSEMENTS
(us$0Oo)/($EUooO)
Calendar     Fiscal                             Accumulated         Undisbursed
Year/        Year/         Disbursements/       Disbursements/      Balance/
Annee        Annee                              Decaissements       Solde non
civile       fiscale       Decaissements        accumules           decaisse
1979                                                                 8,300
1979  3            140               140                8,160
4            520               660                7,640
1980  1             580            1,240                7,o60
2            510             1,750                6,550
1980              3             46o             2,210                6,090
4            630             2,840                5,460
1981  1             610            3,450                4,850
2            610             4,o6o                4,240
1981              3             560             4,620                3,680
4            570             5,190                3,110
1982  1             570            5,760                2,540
2            580             6,340                1,960
1982              3             610             6,950                1,350
4            590             7,540                  760
1983  1             590            8,130                  170
2             80             8,210                   90
1983              3              90             8,300                    0
4
(quarters/
trimestres)18           8,300
April 1978/Avril 1978
Source: Mission estimates



ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 2
CHAD/TCHAD
Third Education Project/Troisieme Projet Education
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE/CALENDRIER D'EXECUTION
1978      1979      1980      1981      1982       1983
Activities/Activites          1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2
Primary School                     2
Construction Schedule/            1bQQ1        _ 1    s 2_hqols2scho1s  3 gcools
Calendrier de construction
d'ecoles primaires
Training Program for
Site Supervisors/            w  XYYYYYYYXXXYYYYYYYY
Programme de formation des   a
surveillants de chantiers    >
*rl
Secondary Technical School
Curriculum Development!            -------------------4
Elaboration des programmes     w
de'tudes pour l'ecole
Id
W  Education Finance/           Primary Education/
Studies/Etudes                _, Financement dke l'Education  Enseigneme_t Primaire
Agricultural Technicians Train-
ing Center/Centre de Formation
de   Techniciens   Agricoles     -------------------------  -----
Public Administration/
Administration publique
Pro,ject   Office/Bureau   du   Projet  ---------------------------------------------- ----- _
1. Twelve schools are to be built in 1978-79 and another twelve in 1979-80 by the
training section as part of the program for training site supervisors/Douze ecoles
seront construites en 1978-79 et douze autres en 1979-80 par la section de formation
comme partie integrale du ptogramme de formation des surveillants de chantier.
X Classroom training of site supervisors/formation theorique des surveillants de chantier.
Y On-the-job training of site supervisors/formation pratique sur le terrain des
surveillants de chartier.



ANNEX 21
CHAD/TCHAD                                Page 2 of 2
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE/CALENDRIER D'EXECUTION (SUITE)
1978     1979      1980     1981      1982
Inputs/                                        1 213 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4
A.  Personnel
1. School Building Unit/Unite des cons-
tructions scolaires
Technical Director of School Building         4------------------------------------,
Unit/Directeur technique de l'Unite           I
des constructions scolaires
Four Building Technicians/Quatre               ------------------------------------
techniciens en construction
Expatriate Technical Assistance/              I
Assistance technique (expatries)
Senior Advisor/Conseiller technique   *   -----------------4
Operations Manager/Directeur des        '  .- -- --
Ope'rations                             o
Chief of Design section/Chef de la          t -      ---------- 
section des Projets                     h
2 Trainers/2 Formateurs                 :  1       --
Accountant/Comptable                        ----- 
Soils Engineer/Ingenieur en m6canique    t        a--      s---
des sols
2. Secondary Technical School Curriculum   t  I
Development/D6veloppement des program-  w  i
mes pour les ecoles secondaires tech-   *
niques
2 Technical Assistants/2 Assistants       to  is----------------------- -4
techniques
3. Studies/Etudes
1 Consultant on Education Finance/                  -  i ------- -4
1 Consultant, Budget de l'education           I
1 Consultant on Public Administration/   ,-----------4
1 Consultant, Administration publique   H
1 Consultant on Primary Education/                                         -----------i
1 Consultant, Enseignement primaire       U  I
4. Project Office/Bureau du Projet               I
Project Director/Directeur du Projet          -----------------------------------i
Accountant/Comptable                           -------------------------------------
B.   Materials/Mat6riaux
Building Materials/Materiaux de Cons-        !AA        AA       AA        AA
truction
C.   Furniture and Equipment/Mobilier et            !BB    C           C        C         C
Equipement
A.  Orders placed for materials to be delivered to site for construction period which
will begin in October. For sites where construction in following February, orders
may be placed as late as beginning of fourth quarter./Pour les materiaux devant
etre livres sur les chantiers oa la construction commencera en octobre, les commandes
ont 6t6 placees. En ce qui concerne les chantiers oil la construction commencera en
fevrier, les commandes peuvent etre placees au debut du dernier trimestre.
B. All vehicles ordered./Tous les vehicules ont ete commandes.
C. Contracts let for school furniture./Les contrats pour le mobilier ont ete adjuges.






IBRD- 1319
'15-        . ,O0                                                             OCTOBER 1977
L  I  B  Y  A
0Aozou
CHAD\   \voWour
C H A D                     J'    -                                              .
f\\,
THIRD EDUCATION                        .                                                                   * .
PROJECT                          /    -7.                                                                       20
hSA .Project Carea 
DENSITY OF POPULATION, 
Inhab,tants per KM2 (by prefecture)  |                     R
|Less than 2                c.                        80DRKO U  t-NNh.tEV   T l5E jr I 
2Y   - I  5 
Over !C
Main roads                                                       Lcrgeau
Secondary roads               !                                 Lorgea.
Other roads                -
Rivers                       i
- Prefecture boundaries
International boundaries                                                            f
o  50  100  150  200 250
Kilometers ,
O     50      00   150
Miles
N I G E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( 
__  take                                            U                     ~~~~~~~~S U D A N
I;I       E    N  T'RN
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RC
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- , 
C A M E R 0~~~~~



