FILE COPY                               Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2205-CD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
To THE
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
May 10, 1978
|  Thb document ha a resticted didutrboen* and my he _e by reciients only in the perfornmace of  I
their ofcial dute.. Its cotests my mot otherwise be disclosd without World Bank authoriton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  :    CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00        :    CFAF 245 1/
CFAF 1,000     :   US$ 4.08
ABBREVIATIONS
FAC           Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation               French Bilateral Assistance
Fund
INSE          Institut National des Sciences de            National Institute of
I'Education                                 Education Sciences
UNDP                                                       United Nations Development
Program
-NCDF                                                      United Nations Capital
Development Fund
UNIC-EF                                                    United Nations Children's
Fund
1/   Floating Exchange rate
CFAF tied to the French Franc (50-1).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHAD
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Chad
Amount:            US$8.3 million
Terms:             Standard
Project           The proposed project is designed to support a program
Description:    to improve primary education in rural areas by replacing
existing dilapidated schools and by undertaking a series of
studies aimed at introducing a more efficient administration
of education. The project would also assist the Government
to improve secondary technical education and to open the
Agricultural Technician Training Centre in Sahr. The pro-
posed project consists of the following main components:
(i)  constructing and equipping 200 buildings for
up to 60 rural primary school complexes;
(ii) technical assistance, and provision of
staff, to
a.   establish a permanent schoolbuilding unit
within the Ministry of Civil Engineering;
b.   train building site supervisors and tech-
nicians; and
c.   supervise school construction;
(iii) technical assistance to develop and introduce
curricula for the Industrial Technical Secondary
School at N'Djamena;
(iv)  technical assistance to undertake studies of
education financing, public administration and
primary education;
(v)  technical assistance to the Agricultural Technician
Training Centre in Sahr; and
(vi) provision of staff, equipment and operating
expenses for the project office.
The main benefit of the project would be the improvement of
physical facilities for the teaching of 18,000 primary school
pupils, who at present attend school under lamentable condi-
tions. The proposed school-construction component would be
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
part of a comprehensive program that also includes the in-
troduction of a new curriculum, teacher training and improved
school supervision. The studies to be financed by the project
would benefit the entire student population by paving the way
for much needed reforms in education financing and public
administration. Finally, the project would enable the Gov-
ernment to open the Agricultural Technician Training Centre
constructed under the First Education project. The project
faces risks associated with the difficulties of organizing
the construction of a large number of small buildings at very
scattered rural sites in a country with poor communications.
Technical assistance and training have been included in the
project to minimize these risks.
Estimated Costs: 1/
Project Cost Summary
-----(US$ thousand)----      % of
Local  Foreign   Total   Base Cost
Project Item
Primary School Construction
Construction of primary
schools                          1.4     3.3        4.7       64
Establishment of
Building Unit                    0.6     1.1        1.7       23
2.0     4.4        6.4      87
Studies                             -       0.2       0.2        3
Technical Education
Curriculum Development            -      0.3        0.3        4
Agricultural Technician
Training Centre                   -      0.3        0.3        5
Project Office                     0.1       -        0.1        1
Base Cost Estimates                2.1     5.2        7.3      100
Physical contingencies             0.1     0.3        0.4
Expected price
increases (20%)                  0.5     1.0        1.5
Total project costs                2.7     6.5        9.2
Financing Plan:
Local  Foreign    Total
IDA                              2.7     5.6        8.3
UNDP                             0.0     0.6        0.6
UNCDF                            0.3      -         0.3
1/   Net of identifiable taxes.  All project goods and services would be
imported duty free as is customary for IDA-financed projects in Chad.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA FY                     1979    1980      1981      1982      1983
Annual                      0.7      2.2       2.3      2.4       0.7
Cumulative                  0.7      2.9       5.2      7.6       8.3
Appraisal Report:   Appraisal of a Third Education Project in Chad,
No. 1712-CD dated May 4, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Chad for the equivalent of US$8.3 mil-
lion on standard IDA terms to help finance a Third Education Project. The
United Nations Development Program and the United Nations Capital Develop-
ment Fund would co-finance the project by providing grants of US$0.6 mil-
lion and US$0.3 million respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Background
2.        The following paragraphs incorporate the conclusions of an Economic
Memorandum (Report No. 1340-CD) which was distributed to the Board in July
1977 and was based on missions that visited Chad in 1976 and March 1977.
The findings of a short economic mission that went to Chad in November 1977
are also incorporated in this report.
3.        With scarce natural resources, a harsh climate, limited social and
economic infrastructure and a pervasive lack of skilled manpower, Chad faces
unusually large handicaps in its economic development. Hligh transportation
costs to and from the outside world compound the problem. The main centers
of activity of this vast landlocked country are about 2,000 km from the sea;
in early 1976 freight rates from the port of Douala in Cameroon to Southern
Chad were about US$130/ton for bulk goods and US$180/ton for general goods.
4.        In 1976, Chad's GNP per capita was estimated at US$120.  Chad is
therefore one of the poorest countries in Africa and is classified as one of
the world's 29 "least-developed" countries by the United Nations. Close to
90 percent of the population, estimated at about four million, lives in rural
areas deriving its livelihood from agriculture and livestock. About half of
the rural population lives in the southwest, where rainfall levels are rela-
tively favorable to agriculture (about 1,000 mm/year). In this region millet
and sorghum are grown as subsistence crops and cotton as the predominant cash
crop. The other half of the country's inhabitants are mainly pastoralists
living in the dry grassland belt with lower and less reliable rainfall.
Recently, efforts have been made to intensify traditional rice growing on the
flood plains of the Logone River and to accelerate the development of the rich
polders in the Lake Chad area.
5.        During the 1960s, real GDP increased about 2 percent annually.
The highest growth rates were achieved in the market economy (mainly import
substitution industries and services), while the growth rate of livestock
1/   Substantially unchanged from the Second Livestock Project (Report No.
P2187-CD).



- 2 -
and subsistence crops probably did not reach that of population, which was
estimated at about 2.1 percent per year. Incomes have risen faster in the
small urban sector than in the rural areas and, within the latter, producers
of cash crops have gained more than pastoralists and subsistence farmers.
Recent Developments
6.        Three factors have affected economic growth and the financial
situation since the late 1960s: internal security problems, droughts, and a
deterioration in the terms of trade. The rebellion that broke out in 1968
rendered large areas insecure and cut off traditional cattle routes. Since
then the internal conflict has flared up occasionally. At the time of writ-
ing a cease fire has been agreed upon between the Government and the opposi-
tion, but not fully respected. A meeting between the parties is scheduled
for June 7. Due to military activities in some areas and to a lack of main-
tenance funds, wells were neglected and the water supply for livestock
dwindled. Animal disease control suffered a setback. The impact of the in-
ternal security problems was compounded by severe droughts, which occurred
in three of the five years 1969-1973. Water levels in the rivers reached an
all-time low, and Lake Chad shrank to one-third of its normal size. Livestock
losses were substantial, resulting in a reduction in the cattle herd by one-
third. Foodcrops were also severely affected: in 1972 production of millet
and sorghum fell to about 70 percent of pre-drought levels and to about 60
percent in 1973. Emergency food sh;ipments from abroad helped the hard hit
areas. With the return of normal rainfall, food production recovered to pre-
drought levels in 1974/75. However, in 1976, a localized drought occurred
in Chad's Sahelian zone affecting agricultural output and requiring the re-
sumption of food aid. Drought again occurred in 1977 but with a comparatively
limited impact.
7.        After the 1973 drought, cotton production picked up considerably
reaching a record volume of 175,000 tons in 1975/76. The upturn in cotton
production stimulated industry, transportation and trade. However, cotton
production decreased in 1976/77 to about 150,000 tons and in 1977/78 to an
estimated 130,000 tons. The principal factors responsible for the continued
fall were inadequate rainfall leading to conflicting needs between foodcrop
and cotton production and the declining motivation of extension agents whose
salaries have stagnated since 1970. Offtake from livestock has decreased
substantially, after an upsurge in the drought years because of emergency
slaughterings, reflecting the reduction of the herd and the beginning of
reconstitution efforts. While the livestock sector was also constrained by
past marketing policies, the Government has recently improved the situation
by adopting a more liberal approach through the establishment of an export
cooperative involving state and private enterprises. Finally, the economy
has borne the full impact of variations in the terms of trade due to increased
import prices and fluctuations in cotton export prices. The terms of trade
worsened by about 11 percent between 1972 and 1974, improved with the
increase of commodity prices between 1975 and 1977 and began to deteriorate
again in mid-1977 with the decline in cotton prices. This deterioration
is expected to persist through 1978.



- 3 -
8.        Until 1968 the Government succeeded in balancing the budget, and
fiscal performance was satisfactory despite development constraints. After
1968 expenditures began to grow more rapidly than revenue as military spending
increased; security and defense expenditures now account for about one-third
of the current budget. The drought also increased demand for Government
relief services while reducing revenues.
9.        Higher import prices and the rise in Government employment--as
a means of containing unemployment, especially among school leavers--also
contributed to the Government's financial difficulties. Combined with
stagnant public revenues these factors resulted in an increase in budgetary
deficits from CFAF 2.0 billion in 1970 (15.5 percent of revenues) to CFAF 4.4
billion in 1976 (about 30 percent of revenues). The Government financed part
of this deficit with limited domestic resources, but the remainder of the gap
was covered by accumulation of payment arrears to local and foreign suppliers
and creditors. Arrears of payments were estimated to amount to CFAF 10.5
billion by end-1976, or about 70 percent of budgetary revenues for that
year. For this reason, foreign budgetary assistance, which had been instru-
mental in closing the gap in the past, was stepped up in 1976. The use of
part of this assistance to repay local and foreign suppliers, as well as the
Government's efforts at containing expenditures, have stemmed the growth of
arrears and reestablished confidence on the part of suppliers.
10.       The Government's recent attempts to stabilize public finances have
included measures to increase revenues by collecting tax arrears and raising
the cotton export tax, as well as measures to reduce expenditures by main-
taining a freeze on wages and limiting the increase in public employment. The
Government has also restricted purchases of certain materials and supplies,
ceased budgeting for investment purposes, and deferred maintenance of capital
assets. To isolate resources for priority uses, the Government has reinstated
the Road Fund, to finance road maintenance, and established the Autonomous
Amortization Fund, for debt repayment. With the help of the IMF, authori-
ties are reviewing the fiscal structure to improve revenue collection and to
increase resources. Structural changes will be implemented only gradually,
however, and will not contribute, in the immediate future, to alleviating the
critical shortage of public revenues. Therefore, the effectiveness of most
Government services will continue to be hampered.
External Aid
11.       Since 1973, aid flows have been substantial, with grants alone
almost equalling tax revenues in 1973 and 1975, and exceeding them by 24 per-
cent in 1974. Total disbursements of external aid in 1973-1976 were US$327
million, three-quarters of which were grants. In 1976, aid disbursements
reached a record level of about US$105 million. Aid from OPEC countries rose
from zero in 1972 to 10 percent of total aid in 1973 and 18 percent in 1975
and in 1976. Nearly two-thirds of official aid disbursements came from
bilateral donors (France, 52 percent; USA, 5 percent; Germany, 4 percent;
Canada, 3 percent), the remainder from multilateral sources (FED, 26 percent;



-4 -
UN organizations, 6 percent; IDA, 3 percent). External aid financed prac-
tically all public investments. Up to 1975, the inflow of foreign aid offset
the large deficits in the current account of Chad's balance of payments so
that its reserve position with the Central Bank was stable. Since 1974
private investment in petroleum research has also helped to offset increas-
ing deficits. Moreover in 1976, record cotton sales, along with stagnating
imports, substantial foreign aid and private investment, produced an unpre-
cedented balance of payments surplus of about US$25 million.  At the end of
1976, net foreign assets stood at about US$4 million compared to a December
1975 low of minus US$19 million.
12.       Chad's external debt is a considerable burden for a country with
such limited resources. At the end of 1976 total outstanding external debt
(including undisbursed) was estimated at approximately US$250 million or
about 52 percent of GDP for that year. Of this about 40 percent had been
disbursed. The largest increase in outstanding debt occurred between 1973
and 1975 during the worst period of the recent drought, at a time when the
Government was undergoing severe budgetary difficulties. These difficulties
also led to Chad's increasing inability to service the debt, resulting in the
accumulation of arrears of about US$10 million at the end of 1976 equivalent
to about 25 percent of overall arrears due to creditors and suppliers. For
1976, the external public and guaranteed debt service due, excluding arrears,
was estimated at US$10.5 million or 9 percent of exports of goods and non-
factor services; it is estimated under reasonable assumptions that the annual
debt service will remain at about the same level in the mid-1980s. While the
ratio of debt service to exports is manageable, the bulk of service payments
has to be financed by budgetary revenues. The debt service ratio with respect
to budgetary revenues, excluding arrears, was estimated at 17 percent in
1976.  The Government has established a Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement re-
sponsible for overall debt management and administration. The Caisse is
financed with earmarked revenues and its Director reports directly to the
Head of State. The Bank has assisted the Caisse Autonome in setting up debt
reporting and monitoring procedures. The Government has successfully reached
a debt rescheduling agreement with France for debt owed to Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique. Furthermore a rescheduling agreement for arrears
owed to Air Afrique has recently been concluded. The Government is also
discussing rescheduling of debts with other bilateral creditors.
Prospects
13.       Chad's development potential lies primarily in agriculture and
related activities. The Government is carefully exploiting available in-
vestment opportunities (textiles, sugar, edible oils and soaps, irrigated
agriculture) and has obtained FED and FAC support to launch a south Chad
agricultural development program aimed at improving cotton production and
crop diversification. This program is part of an overall interim develop-
ment plan which, in addition to cotton productivity, emphasizes the im-
provement of Chad's domestic and international transport infrastructure as
well as the delivery of basic services, particularly primary education.
Recently, the Government announced the discovery of oil in the northwestern



- 5 -
and southern parts of the country. For the time being, Government is con-
centrating on solving its domestic petroleum supply problems through the
construction of a small import substituting refinery. This would somewhat
reduce the trade gap while providing some extra budgetary resources. Pros-
pects for a larger oil development project are uncertain. Other mineral
prospects are being investigated by a UNDP team.
14.       The fiscal situation is a serious obstacle to development, since
the Government cannot contribute to the financing of required investments
nor finance all recurrent costs of ongoing and new high-priority projects.
The Government has undertaken a review of the tax system with the help
of the IMF and has, recently, increased export taxes on cotton. However,
the narrow tax base and the rising cost of maintaining even the present
level of public services, make it unlikely that substantial budgetary sav-
ings can be generated during the remainder of the 1970s. In view of Chad's
financial constraints, its poverty and modest growth prospects, external
funds should be provided on the most concessionary terms possible. Moreover,
in the next few years foreign aid agencies should finance a high proportion
of total project costs, including local costs and some development-related
recurrent costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHAD 1/
15.       Development of Chad's agriculture, transportation and human re-
sources continues to be the main objective of Bank Group assistance to the
country. Eleven IDA credits to date amount to US$62.6 million. Six credits
and a supplementary credit were for agricultural projects, two credits for
transport projects and two credits for education projects. Finally one
credit, which was approved in September 1977 for a Sahelian Zone project,
includes mostly agricultural development schemes and also has transport and
rural water supply components. Five of the eleven projects are either
completed or near completion; four are progressing satisfactorily; and two
have yet to commence. Delays have occurred in project implementation mainly
due to lack of counterpart funds and supplies, but also because of building
design problems and late signing of consultant contracts. A common constraint
to development in all sectors is insufficiency of Government funds for
maintenance and recurrent costs. Annex II contains a summary statement of
IDA credits as of March 31, 1978, and notes on the execution of approved
projects.
16.       In agriculture our main objectives are:  (a) to help Government
assure a sufficient food supply for the growing urban as well as the pre-
dominantly rural populations; (b) to help expand income from cattle exports;
and (c) to protect Chad's overall economic base against the vagaries of
climate. In rainfed agriculture, past IDA lending has been designed to raise
1/   Substantially unchanged from the Second Livestock Project (Report No.
P2187-CD).



rural productivity mainly through the provision of infrastructure, equipment
and storage facilities. In irrigation, IDA is assisting in the financing of
the Sategui-Deressia and Lake Chad Polders Projects which will produce,
among other products, rice, wheat and cotton. The Sahelian Zone Project
will initiate drought-alleviating measures that will sustain or step up crop,
livestock and forestry exploitation in the zone.  Our First Livestock Project
assisted the Government with the rehabilitation and construction of Sahelian
pastoral wells and with studies of the livestock sector; the Second Livestock
Project, with animal health services, animal husbandry, and pastoral develop-
ment, pastoral wells, credit and marketing components, will further expand
our assistance in this sector.
17.       In transportation, we are giving priority to road maintenance and to
improvement of feeder roads and agricultural export routes. The first project
helped to focus Government's attention on the importance of road maintenance
and provided the necessary physical means to carry out a five-year maintenance
program. Our Second Highway Project and the road component of the Rural Proj-
ects Fund are designed to improve feeder roads; a proposed Third Highway Proj-
ect, recently appraised, would build on the experience gained under the First
Highway project to strengthen the maintenance capacity and transport planning
and operations while maintaining and improving about 5,000 km of primary and
secondary roads in the south and in the Sahelian Zone. We are also consider-
ing projects which would improve Chad's transport links with the sea, although
much of the improvement will come. from transport investments in the coastal
countries.
18.       Two education projects in 1968 and 1971 assisted the Government
in constructing institutions for training both teachers and agricultural
and industrial technicians--the most needed skills in the economy. The
proposed Third Education Project would mainly improve primary education in
rural areas and follow up on the first two projects.
19.       Chad's severe financial and manpower constraints limit investment
opportunities and necessitate special arrangements for counterpart funds,
recurrent costs, training and institution building. IDA and other donors
have assisted the Government in financing local costs. Recurrent cost-fi-
nancing problems have been resolved in different ways: by designing proj-
ects which promote cost recovery; by establishing special funds replenished
with earmarked revenues; and by providing technical assistance grants which
do not increase the burden of debt service. Furthermore some donors, pri-
marily France, make direct contributions for covering recurrent cost ex-
penditures in many sectors including education.
20.       Most of our operations in Chad have been coordinated with other
donors and several projects are being executed under joint or parallel fi-
nancing. The recent focus on the problems of the Sahel has increased the
number of donors seeking cofinancing with IDA. The amounts of co-financing
tentatively pledged in FY78 and FY79 is likely to match the proposed IDA
lending to Chad during this period. IDA lending accounted for 17 percent of
total outstanding external public debt at the end of 1976 and on average
represents 4 percent of Chad's projected debt service over the 1977-1985
period.



PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Structure
21.       Chad's educational system follows the French pattern.  Six years of
primary education are followed by two cycles of secondary education, the first
lasting four years and the second three. After a total reliance on France
and other francophone West African countries for higher education, a national
university was opened in 1971 in N'Djamena offering a range of two- and
three-year courses, including the humanities, law and the biological and
physical sciences. The primary teacher training program consists of a com-
bination of seven years of secondary level education and training and four
years of practical experience. Until 1974, secondary school teachers were
trained in a two-year course at a higher teacher training college in
Brazzaville, Congo. They are now to be trained in a two-year course at the
new university in Chad. Technical education (at three lycees) begins after a
minimum of two years of general secondary education; artisan training and the
training of nurses and midwives begin after primary school. Finally , there
is a large number of specialized courses of different duration offered under
the jurisdiction of Government ministries other than the Ministry of Education.
These courses are generally designed to serve the manpower needs of the
Administration.
Quality of Education
22.       The quality of both primary and secondary education in the country
is low. The curricula are biased toward the preparation of students for
higher levels of education and ultimately for employment in public administra-
tion. They do little to prepare students for work in agriculture or related
processing industries where most will eventually be occupied. Rural primary
education in Chad is weak and children are being taught under poor physical
conditions by underqualified teachers who do not have the assistance of
teaching materials and equipment. Primary school facilities are among the
worst in Africa with 65 percent constructed of mud or, more frequently,
temporary strawmat; they provide so little protection from the sun, wind, dust
and rain, that school attendance frequently depends upon the weather. While
proper facilities alone would not guarantee an improvement in the quality of
primary education, other efforts being planned and implemented by the Govern-
ment in teacher training and curriculum reform may be wasted without concur-
rent improvement in physical conditions.
Access to Education
23.       From 1956 to 1976, primary school enrollments increased at an aver-
age annual rate of 13 percent, from 18,000 to over 200,000 students. Most
of this expansion occurred prior to 1966; during the last decade the average
annual growth rate fell to about 3 percent. Public secondary education did
not exist prior to 1947, and as late as 1964 there were only 480 secondary
school students in the entire country. By 1976, however, there were over
13,000 students enrolled at 30 secondary educational institutions, implying an



- 8 -
impressive average annual growth rate of 35 percent. Currently, 17 percent of
all students in the last year of primary school gain admission to secondary
schools. Because of the very low quality of rural primary schools, almost
all those who enter secondary schools are from urban areas. There are over
1,000 students at institutions of higher education abroad and about 550
enrolled at the new national university in N'Djamena.
24.       Although universal and free primary education is the national
policy, only 25 percent of the school-age population is enrolled. This is
due to the difficulty of providing facilities and teachers in sparsely pop-
ulated regions, particularly in the north and east. Urban areas are better
served than rural areas in terms of schools offering all six primary grades
as well as in terms of quality and number of teachers. A consequence of these
regional constraints is that the enrollment rate, while low, is nevertheless
five to six times higher in the southwest than in other areas.
25.       The participation of girls in primary education has been improving
rapidly and is about 26 percent of primary school enrollments. Government
policy and Chadian law provide that women should have equal access to education,
and although it is a slow process, this is gradually being achieved as social
restrictions are relaxed, and facilities are being built.
Financing Education
26.       The Government's financial problems are reflected in the trend of
public expenditures for education. For over two decades, enrollments have
increased at a more rapid rate than total expenditures for education with
consequent declining per-student outlays. During the period 1970-1976,
total real expenditures on education actually declined because budgeted
increases have been insufficient to offset inflation. The education system
has become entirely dependent upon external aid for capital development and
heavily dependent upon France for recurrent budgetary support, including the
cost of expatriate school teachers. Nevertheless, in the face of substantial
outlays for national defense, the Government has attempted to maintain
the share of the education sector in the total budget at about 15 percent or
3 percent of GDP, which is not a very high percentage but nevertheless
compares favorably with a number of other African countries.
Government Strategy
27.       The Government of Chad faces a dilemma.  On the one hand, restricted
access to education and training, particularly in rural areas, is a serious
constraint to long-term development. On the other hand, because of extreme
financial difficulties the Government cannot purchase sufficient materials
for, or adequately manage, the existing educational system, much less finance
its expansion. Under these circumstances, plans for education development are
linked to the Government's economic policy which is chiefly geared towards
rural development; in 1976/77, 53 percent of all public investment was for
projects in the agricultural and livestock sectors.  Thus, new initiatives in
education and training are to concentrate on activities which will directly
contribute to the Government's rural development strategy.



- 9 -
28.       These initiatives will consequently be focused largely on improving
literacy. Since secondary and higher education are less relevant in this
respect, they are assigned a lower priority than primary education within
the education sector as a whole. The reform of secondary education will
therefore be implemented only as resources became available and after steps
have been taken to improve primary education.
29.       In 1973, the Government created a special agency, the National
Institute of Educational Sciences (INSE), to coordinate the overall effort
to improve primary education. After a period of experimentation and evalua-
tion in pilot primary schools, the Government, with the cooperation of a
number of donors, has formulated a package of interrelated projects costing
about US$20 million to improve primary education. The package contains
projects to develop a new curriculum, to train teachers and to begin to
replace dilapidated or otherwise inadequate school buildings.
30.       Curriculum Development.  The Government has acquired technical
assistance for the period 1977-1982 under a UNDP-financed and UNESCO executed
project to assist INSE in implementing a reform of the primary school cur-
riculum, particularly with respect to developing education materials and
planning teacher retraining. This project follows up on a prior UNDP-financed
project which, starting in 1974, designated 20 pilot primary schools in which
new pedagogical programs prepared by INSE were tested. The pilot school
program, now well-established, is intended to supply a continuous flow of
information to INSE on all aspects of primary education.
31.       Planning, Research and Supervision.  INSE is receiving technical
assistance from a wide variety of sources for planning primary school programs,
for pedagogical research, and for improving primary school supervision. While
the French Government is the largest supporter of these activities, the Swiss,
US, and the Canadian Governments are also contributing significant amounts of
technical assistance. Furthermore UNDP will, under the project mentioned in
the previous paragraph, finance 85 man-years of technical assistance for
teacher training, materials production, and distribution aspects of the
primary school curriculum reform.  UNESCO is also assisting the Government in
replacing all primary school supervisors with better trained personnel.
32.       School Construction.  Since replacement of the primary school
facilities is essential for improving the quality of primary education, the
Government, with the assistance of UNDP and the UN Capital Development Fund,
started a pilot primary school construction project in 1975. The objective
of the project is to provide school designs which may be executed economically
in rural areas using local materials and labor as much as possible, and which
will accommodate a reformed teaching program. The project has funds to
construct 17 schools. The initial results of this pilot project have been
evaluated by the UN Capital Development Fund and by the Association. Satis-
factory designs have been formulated and three schools have been built. The
proposed Third Education Project would follow up on this pilot project.



- 10 -
IDA's Role
First and Second Education Projeccts
33.        The two previous education projects in Chad aimed at (a) improving
primary education through the training of primary school teachers, and
(b) increasing the number of skilled industrial workers and middle-level
industrial and agricultural technicians.
34.       The First Education Project (Credit 126-CD), signed in 1968 and
amended in 1973, provided US$2.2 million to establish a Primary Teacher
Training College in Moundou and an Agricultural Technician Training Centre
in N'Djamena. In 1971, prior to construction, the Government and IDA agreed
the Agricultural School would be better located at Sahr than in N'Djamena.
35.       The Second Education Project (Credit 251-CD), signed in 1971 and
amended in 1973, provided US$2.7 million to (a) establish a Technical Secondary
School in N'Djamena, (b) finance costs associated with changing the site of
the Agricultural Technician Training Centre to be constructed under the First
Education Project (c) provide equipment for a Vocational Training Centre in
N'Djamena, and (d) finance a study of farmer training.
36.       Achievements and Experience.  Arn OED Audit Report is under prepara-
tion.  Construction of the three project institutions has been completed.  The
delays experienced in implementation were eight months for the Primary Teacher
Training College, two years for the Agricultural Technician Training Centre
and six months for the Technical Secondary School. The two-year delay in the
construction of the Agricultural Technician Training Centre is attributable
to the time taken by the Government and IDA to reach agreement on a site for
the institution. Two institutions, the Primary Teacher Training College and
the Technical Secondary School are in operation but the opening of the Agri-
cultural Technician Training Centre is scheduled at the end of 1979. Staff-
ing, financing and appropriate curricula have been serious constraints to the
opening and effective operation of a:Ll the institutions. While these problems
have been solved for the Primary Teacher Training Centre and the Technical
Secondary School they have caused more serious delays in opening the Train-
ing Centre at Sahr. However, the opening of the centre at end-1979 will be
achieved following the provision of some staff by FAC, the introduction of
a new curriculum and the provision of adequate funding by the Government.
Funds would also be provided under the proposed Third Education Project to
finance some teaching staff at the centre. The submission of a detailed
plan, including bugetary provisions, leading to the opening of the Centre by
September 1979 would be a condition of credit effectiveness (see Section
6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
37.       The Government was unable to finance the local costs of the projects
and, in 1973, the Credit Agreements for the projects were amended to provide
100 percent financing. In the first project, it was originally intended that
IDA would finance 82 percent of the project cost of US$2.2 million, and in the
second project 71 percent of the project cost of US$3.1 million. Since 1973
the situation in Chad has, if anything, deteriorated and it is therefore not
anticipated that the Government will be able to make any direct contribution
to financing the proposed Third Education Project from its regular budget.



- 11 -
38.       At appraisal of the First and Second Education Projects it was
envisaged that project institutions would be staffed initially by technical
assistance personnel financed by France. Chadians were to be provided
with fellowships to enable them to eventually replace expatriate teachers
and trainers. The Government has, however, experienced difficulty in securing
finance for the technical assistance required for the Agricultural Technician
Training Center and the replacement of expatriates by national staff at all
institutions will take longer than originally anticipated.
39.       Experience since the appraisal of the Second Education Project has
shown that the curriculum for the new Technical Secondary School in N'Djamena
should be revised to meet the country's needs for middle-level industrial
technicians. At project appraisal this curriculum had been in use for
only three years at a secondary technical school in Sahr and there was
insufficient evidence to assess results. Eight years of experience with the
curriculum now show that nearly all graduates go abroad for engineering
studies. Once abroad, these students invariably abandon their engineering
studies because they are poorly prepared for them and undertake training
for non-technical occupations. The proposed Third Education Project would
provide technical assistance to develop and introduce technical curricula at
the new Technical Secondary School thus ensuring better training for a
small number of students who would go abroad, and a separate curriculum for
technicians who would go directly into industry.
Future Role
40.       The proposed Third Education Project would, through the financing
of studies, establish a basis for future development in the education and
training sectors. The objectives of future investments should be: to
improve the staffing in the public sector through training, particularly
in the education sector; to achieve greater efficiency in the educational
system through better financial planning; and to support the Government's
long-term efforts to improve rural primary education.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
41.       The Government has requested IDA assistance to finance a Third
Education Project that would primarily upgrade or reconstruct 15 percent of
the country's existing primary school buildings in rural areas within the
framework of an overall effort to improve primary education. As part of
this overall effort, UNESCO is executing projects to reform the curriculum
and to train teachers and supervisors. USAID is financing specialists in
teacher training and planning; the African Development Bank, new facilities
for INSE; the French Government, substantial recurrent costs mostly for staff;
UNDP, a pilot school construction project; and the Swiss Government, teacher
training for pilot schools. Assistance is also being received from Canada,
Germany and Saudi Arabia. The proposed project would also finance studies



- 12 -
that would pave the way for reforms in education financing and administration.
In view of the country's difficult financial situation, the project and
related activities supported by the donors have been designed to minimize
increases in recurrent cost expenditures. The project was prepared by the
Government and Bank Group Staff. It was appraised in February 1977 and a
post-appraisal mission visited Chad in November 1977. A report entitled
"Appraisal of a Third Education Project in Chad", No. 1712a-CD dated May 4,
1978 is being distributed separately and a Credit and Project Summary is
presented at the beginning of this report. Negotiations for the proposed
credit were held in Washington from April 10 to April 14, 1978. The Chadian
Delegation was led by Mr. Allangambaye, the Director of Elementary Education.
Project Objectives and Description
42.       The main objectives of the proposed Third Education Project would
be to assist the Government's efforts to (a) upgrade the quality of rural
primary education; (b) meet the country's needs for industrial technicians and
engineers; (c) improve education management and administration; and (d) ensure
the opening of the Agricultural Technician Training Centre in Sahr.
43.       The project would be implemented over the period 1978-1983 and
would comprise:
(i) constructing and equipping about 200 buildings for up
to 60 rural primary school complexes, to be used as
school classrooms, practical studies areas, storage
spaces and teachers' lesson preparation areas;
(ii) 176 man-months of expatriate technical assistance, and
provision of eight Chadian senior staff and 33 junior
staff for four years to:
(a) help establish a permanent School Building Unit
within the Ministry of Civil Engineering;
(b) train Chadian site supervisors and technicians; and
(c) supervise school construction;
(iii) 48 man-months of technical assistance to develop new cur-
ricula for the Secondary Technical School in N'Djamena
that was financed under the Second Education Project
(Credit 251-CD);
(iv) 36 man-months of technical assistance to study educa-
tion financing and administration and to review primary
education; this would serve as a basis for future edu-
cational development;



- 13 -
(v) 72 man-months of technical assistance to help staff the
Agricultural Technician Training Centre in Sahr; and
(vi) provision of staff, equipment and operating expenses for
the project office.
Project Implementation and Monitoring
44.       All schools constructed initially would be located in the southeast
for reasons of security .and accessibility. Sites would be selected by an
interministerial committee with representatives from the Ministries of Edu-
cation, Civil Engineering (School Building Unit), Plan, Agriculture and
Livestock, and Health. The criteria for site selection would be:
(i) schools would either replace or consolidate existing
schools;
(ii) sites would be easily accessible by road;
(iii) sites would be in areas where there are current
or planned development activities; and
(iv) schools would have access to wells.
An acceptable list of school sites for the first year of construction has been
received. The Government would by April 1 of each year, submit to the Asso-
ciation for approval, proposals for the construction to be undertaken the
following year (Section 3.07 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
45.       The design and construction of schools and training of site super-
visors and small-scale contractors would be the responsibility of the School
Building Unit in the Ministry of Civil Engineering. The appointment of a
Chadian Technical Director of the Unit with qualifications acceptable to
IDA would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). A suitable candidate for this position has
been identified. The legislation to formally incorporate this already
established unit in the Ministry would be finalized by January 1, 1979
(Section 3.02(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
46.       The Unit would require technical assistance for an initial period
of at least two years. Provision has thus been made for financing the em-
ployment of six specialists. The recruitment of three of them: a Senior
Technical Advisor, an Accountant and a Training Specialist, with qualifica-
tions and under terms acceptable to IDA would be a condition of effective-
ness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The other
specialists, an Operations Manager, a Chief of the Design Section, and a
second Training Specialist with qualifications and under terms acceptable
to IDA, would be appointed by end-December 1978. The School Building Unit
is already being supported by technical assistance. UNDP has agreed to
continue to finance the foreign exchange component of four of the six posi-
tions. Signature of an agreement between the Government and UNDP would be a
condition of effectiveness (see Section 6.01(c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).



- 14 --
47.       A training program would be established within the School Building
Unit to train sufficient site supervisors to supervise construction on
12 sites at the same time. Most of the site-supervisor training would
be done on building sites.
48.       Under the project simple furniture would be provided for up to 60
students per classroom. Furniture would be designed by INSE in cooperation
with the School Building Unit. Handtools would be provided for (a) school-
gardening, (b) metal and wood crafts, and (c) repair of agricultural imple-
ments and furniture for each school itself. UNICEF would provide tools
available from their standard supply for primary school workshops.
49.       The new curriculum referred to in paragraph 30 will be adapted
to the needs of the country and will be the basic feature of the education
reform.
50.       To draw maximum benefit from the school construction program and
to ensure that its facilities are used for teaching the new curriculum, the
teachers in project schools would receive additional training. Government
has confirmed that these teachers would be given priority in existing teacher
upgrading programs.
51.       A comprehensive program for monitoring and evaluating the project
will be introduced to assure that the objectives are achieved or to adjust
the project to more realistic objectives, should this prove necessary.
As part of the evaluation the Government would review with IDA, 18 months
after credit effectiveness, the need for continued technical assistance. A
second review will be made 30 months after credit effectiveness to examine
the project's educational objectives i.e. the introduction of a reformed
curriculum and the retraining of teachers (Section 3.03 (c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
52.       Studies would be carried out under the project to pave the way for
improvements in the present systems of education financing and of public
administration and also prepare for a follow-up project. The terms of refer-
ence, qualifications and contract terms for the consultants would have to be
acceptable to IDA (Section 3.03(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
53.       The cost of the project, excluding taxes, is estimated at US$9.2
million, with a foreign exchange component of US$6.5 million or 71 percent
of total project costs. The base cost estimates are for February 1978 and
take account of recent material and labor costs in Chad. The estimated
average cost of construction is about US$153 per square meter or about
US$260 per student place. This compares favorably with similar construction
in neighbouring countries. The cost of technical assistance is estimated
to average US$60,000 per man-year and is based on recent bilateral and UNDP
experience. The project cost includes an allowance for physical contingencies



- 15 -
that averages 5 percent of the total base costs for civil works, furniture,
equipment and for the costs of local and technical assistance staff.
Physical contingencies take account of the fact that sites have not yet been
identified. The allowance for price increases is about 20 percent of base
costs plus physical contingencies, and is estimated on the basis of expected
price increases for civil works of 9 percent per year through 1980 and 8
percent per year through 1982, and for equipment and personnel (including
technical assistance) of 7.5 percent per year through 1980 and 7 percent per
year through 1981 and 1982. The proposed IDA credit of US$8.3 million would
finance 90 percent of the total cost of the project. The remaining project
costs would be financed by UNDP, and by the UN Capital Development Fund;
because of severe budgetary constraints, the Government is unable to make a
financial contribution to the project from its regular budget. The project
would not cause any significant increase of recurrent cost expenditures.
Procurement and Disbursement
54.       Civil works are estimated to cost US$4.4 million.  Small buildings
widely dispersed on 60 sites would be built, using small-scale local contrac-
tors under local bidding procedures wherever possible and force account
whenever necessary. Furniture worth an estimated US$0.4 million would be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures or produced by force account by the School Building Unit or other
qualified governmental services. Orders for equipment and building materials,
including materials provided to small contractors, estimated to cost about
US$2.5 million, would be grouped wherever possible in lots of not less than
US$50,000 and the contracts would be awarded in accordance with IDA's guide-
lines for international competitive bidding. Small equipment contracts,
amounting to less than US$50,000, would be awarded on the basis of quotations
or through local competitive bidding. The local competitive bidding proce-
dures are acceptable to IDA.
55.       Funds from the credit account would be disbursed as follows:  (a)
expenditures for civil works - US$4.4 million after the UNCDF contribution
has been fully disbursed (see Schedule 1, paragraph 3b of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement); (b) expenditures for furniture - US$0.4 million;
(c) expenditure for equipment, tools and vehicles - US$0.4 million; (d) ex-
penditures for technical assistance US$1.0 million 1/; expenditure for
local personnel - US$0.7 million. US$1.4 million of the credit would be
unallocated. Withdrawal applications would be fully documented, except
1/   UNDP would finance four of the six expatriates in the School Building
Unit on an OPAS-basis (Operational Assistance). This means that the
Government will employ these experts and pay them the same salaries as
national civil servants of corresponding rank. These salaries would be
charged to the Credit. UNDP will cover the difference between inter-
national levels of remuneration and the national salaries.



- 16 -
with respect to expenditures for force account and local personnel. These
would be supported by certificates of expenditure, for which the documenta-
tion would not be submitted but would be retained by the Project Unit.
Because the Government would have difficulty in prefinancing expenditures to
be reimbursed under the credit, a revolving fund of US$0.6 million would be
established with the Chad Development Bank and would be used to prefinance
all project costs. IDA would make a first disbursement to this fund and
would replenish it upon receipt of evidence of disbursements from the fund
for allowable expenditures. Should any disbursements be made from the re-
volving fund which prove not to be eligible for financing from the proceeds
of the credit, the Government would be under the obligation to deposit
the corresponding amount in the fund account (Section 2.02(e) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
56.       The proposed project would finance the school building component of
a larger primary education development program which also includes curriculum
development, teacher retraining and better school supervision. The program
should lead to a marked improvement in the quality and efficiency of primary
education. The project studies would pave the way for much needed improve-
ments in the quality of public administration and, through better financial
planning, in the efficiency of the education and training systems. The new
secondary technical school curricula should help satisfy the country's needs
for industrial technicians and engineers. Technical assistance for the Agri-
cultural Technician Training Center, the construction of which was financed
under the two prior credits, would enable that institution to open and to
operate effectively.
57.       The project involves some risks.  Constructing a large number of
small buildings at scattered rural sites by force account or by inexperienced
contractors in a country with poor communications, requires management and
technical manpower that is in short supply. The training and technical
assistance components of the project have been designed to help reduce these
risks. Also, the project would be organized to allow Government flexibility
in procurement for civil works: it would permit the Government to use build-
ing contractors, undertake force account works or employ other methods of
building schools, such as community participation in construction through
local Parents' Associations. Finally, two joint Government/IDA evaluations
would be built into the project's implementation timetable to identify prob-
lems that might jeopardize the achievement of the projects' physical and
educational objectives and to formulate proposals for resolving them.
58.       Given these safeguards, and given the priority assigned to primary
education by the Government and the resources being invested by donors, the
risks of not achieving the objective of improving the quality of primary
education are small. There is little risk associated with the studies or
with the curriculum development components of the proposed project.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Chad
and the Association and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       In addition to the features of the Credit Agreement which are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, the following
features are of special interest:
(a)  A remedy permitting suspension of relevant disbursements has been
provided for should any construction sites included in the project
be inaccessible to IDA representatives as required for the efficient
supervision of the execution of the project (Section 5.01(a) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement);
(b) Conditions of effectiveness include:
(i) the appointment of a Technical Director of the School Building
Unit and recruitment of technical assistance staff (Section
6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement);
(ii) the appointment of three technical assistance specialists
with terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (Section 6.01(a)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement);
(iii) the submission of a detailed plan leading to the opening
of the Agricultural Technician Training Centre in Sahr
by September 1979 (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement);
(iv) the signing of the co-financing agreement and the fulfillment of
all conditions of its effectiveness, if any, save the condition
that the IDA credit has become effective (Section 6.01(c) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
(c) A condition for disbursement for civil works would be the depletion
of grant funds provided by UNCDF for this purpose (para. 3(b) of
Schedule 1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 10, 1978



,                       ~~~- 19 -
*lf* pages
?ABLE 3A
fCKb                    .* OC/tCL tINDCATORI DATA SH14T
LAND  iltA (THOU KNO                                                                                  ;[EC EUT16(90
.TO        1...... 0                                  CD        MOST RECEOT
*SL,    tIA4.0                                            1970    ESTIMATE                I                BOLI              CENTRAL  AFRICAR EMPtUi"'
*                                      . .5.0                  ...         ......                               ..      .......  
*GN  PE* t     *  cuss)                              ...6 . ;o,e..   130.0                      70.0         to0.          170.0
....................
POPULA!IIN A0 VITAL STATISTICS
,.4... .........................                                                                                 ,             ,
bOPUL;hIS4  OIM3.YR,  .ILLION)                 5*9                                                                          1.
*OPULAYInf   OE4SITY                                                                                            0 0           e
PER 10.   HKM. AQICULTIIRAL LANO            21.0               3        o .         01.                                 27.0
VITAL STATIS T*IC S6*4                                                                                                    65.
CAL,Dr  WYIN  Atil  (ITWOU.  AY)           65,6         4A6*                                R4.6          19.7          34.6
CALIoC  FAYTM RAtE  (/T40UA,vl            23.1                       RO. AD 2s               0           11,7 0,
INFA'T MORlTALITY  RATE (Jt,OuH )         I0.I /4          . .
LIFE  EvPICtaNCY  IA S1RtHl (YRS)          33*5         36.0        36.5                    37,2          61.3          39*
6n'S.  QFSPOPUCTET!4 RATE                   2.6          3,0          ,.                     3.            2.6             .
01PULATInN  GRMWTb  RATE (I)                                                                   2,                           22
@|*9^"~ ~ ~~~~1.                              1.7    3.3                          3.2 ,,        .2            2.
IRAN POPULATION (It  rf TOT&LI                4,7        113          13.I                      .           2.3          30.
*sr %JcyruE (PR                                                                                        4ERCCENT
0  1 1a YE*RS                             44.0C        R1.4        6.0/a                  69.1          61.9           42.1
15 Vt       VEA6S                          3t.0W        56.0        5.I 0S                 *9,5           54.a          56
*5 YFAlS *4n, !vEU                          *    c       2.4          6.0 at                               S,5           3.1
*sr nftEIE.EtCv 6AT1D                          6.91C       0.           0,l5                   to            0.8            0.1
tCt'NnMIC hFPrFnE-CY RAPlT                     3.7.          ..         1.3                     e,j           I.ol          0.
9'"3Lt ' P161JNIj G
ItEcETfos (CU'IILATT   THOU)                  .j          ,.           ,,                      6            ...
ltSfR% Ct nr "ARRIED wn%EUI  l
l2TA; ,;A6.R  Fr)RCE  CTH31SAWn)           1100.0           *-       1300.0ft              2600.0         2300.0         90.0
I.6OR FOICr  IN ACRICU4.TuRE  Il            9o            O,O ,9                             910 g5.0                  607.0
aFwP)tn!rt  It oF LABIR FORCE)                  ,.                                                          14*e
I NC oME DI T s  w  OT I IN 
* tW PmIV&tE IJCOQE RECC0 MY.
*    MIrmls?  st or *oJSEM(LDS                   316 ..                     *                       *          34.0             *
wGI45ET 201 oF HOJUSLtHLDA                 64./e                                                         SI ,  LE.
Lo"tiR    ?O% OF WlUtIJnfLOft                7 77           ,           54. 
LOwFAT    401 of AOUSEMOLOS                1.37 La:                    ..                     *           tl
DISTRIPtiUw nr LAND 3ANFR5HIP
.,,....,..............
I tOWAF  AV TOP In% Of OWNERS                        ,           55           *6
II OWura MY SMALLEST 10O  fINERS                                         ..                                                 Ss
.....................
*  3PULAS114 PCR PHYSICIAN                           *-    6U@0.0          aIO.O               IwRD           21SC.o       38i2.00
OPULAT&tiMN  PER 4lR3I1C  PFRSDN          570D0   f        ..t70.0&                      eco@O         2710 0        1280.0
POPULATION  PER q4OSPITAL RE0                120.0        760.0           ..               190.o0         4690,0         640.0
Rjft CAPITA SUPPLY DF
CALnlMES It Or RE2UIREMENtS)               96.0          4.0 ./e                          92.0          77.0          9t,0
PROTEIN  lORi'S  PER ~~~~       77.0         73"          75   _                 90           46.0          66.0
ORnTFIN (CRAmS PER DAY1                    ?7. n         ]s T  C.:o                                      4  o          c 
-nr wwICw AITMAL AND P''LtE                          3.0                                 2530/c        14 0,2        22. 0
01111  R6TF (lTH3U) ACES  14                    e.           .*                                 .            7.6     *
;;JU;T;O rROLLI4rNT RATIO
*      PRIMARY  SCNnOL                             I5.0        30,0         29.0                   20,0          71.0          73.0
I ECONDARY SCHOOL                           06           2,0         2,o                    3.0          20.o           S.D
VEARIS nF S3rCnLING PR2vIDED
(7FIRST !ND AECnND LEvEL)                  13,0         33.0        13.3                  *12.0          12,0          30.0
VOCATI'tA44  ENPnLLMENT                                                                                          A
1  OD  SECnN4n,Ry)                         21St ,,                  10.0                   R0OD          I3.oL^        12.0
A|DuLT LITrRAtY  RATE (4)                       ,,         7 0                                              0D0
Pt          R DSC,   ,N I
0CCURIE0 rMWELLIN'S .ITbOtlT
PIOEC  IkTER CX)                              ,.          ,,           .,                     ,             ..
ACCESS T* ELECTRICt?Y
(I OF ALL O.Ew LI. SI)
RURAL OdwLLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELEETRICITY  (1)                            ;                                               ;4
CO4SUmTP TON
RArtI'n PECFIVERS (776  1,401u poP)            2,0        34.0         .0 0                  32,0         288.0          30,0
PA3SSNCER CARp (PER *nU  PnP)                  1.0          . 0         1.5                    l0           410           6.0
t1tCTRCTT;Y CKAY/YR PER CAP)                   Soo        1.0          14.           0                    160.0          2.0 -
'E4SPRTIT  CRO/YR PER CAP)                      ,.          ,,           ,,                     ,.          1.0
, , ,_~~~~~~.._  _._ .,;__.,,,__  . ... .. ................................
.t-.5*59otTil0S0    tV*r'              '   't



-20-
I2T~~~~~~~~
~1es  oterwse  ote, dta  or  960  efe  toa~'yea  bewee  199 end 1961, for 1970 bgtveeo 1968 end 1.970,- and for Nset Recent Estimate.
betwems 1973 and 1975.
GO    ,e Central African hpire has been selected ss an ObJective ctemtrY for ChsAd because it is &aso lundlocead but at. a highier level
of development.
CRA~~~~~~             j~96          1955-57;   A   1963-64., African Population;   /c  Age group 0-17, 18-55 uOd 60l ant Cu'-.r reapectively';
d  Ratio of Population under 17' end 60 and over to tota.l labor force;   A~ 1958, poIsilation.,
1962; j& Including nidodvea And assistant nur-sea in government medical centers;
Co,ertment hospitaL estabL.ishmeota only.
Ls 1   1964s.66
MmT RMIET ESTIMATEI    La  1972;    A  'Age 15-59 end 60 years and over respectively;   ,   Ratio of
population under 15 and 60 and  vovr to total labor force; ~d  Incleuding
midwives and sas.istent m1dwives;   Le  1969-73. average.
rLI                            97      /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;   A   Goveermont hosPital
establisabmets only;   /c  i196-66.
EoLII                         19?      /a  Matto of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;                    As percentage of labor
force In e=ployment;   Ac  Population;   /d  1961.-66;   /e  Between 196  and 1970 the duration
of general secondary educatioIn was reduced frile 6 to 4s yeses.
C1SRtAL AFRICAN I4IRE         l97      /a  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and over to total labor force;   A Inocluding midwives,
asisltant aidwivee end assistant nursaes.
35, HaY 19. 19'77
DmRYrrTOl OF SOCIA ncoxcgrvec
Lsed Less  ~~~~~ ,,,2;                                                po~~1Pulsi:t!   per noso    e.e      oosin       dividedby,amber Of prac-titie
2egal  7- tal eurfacs area sapr.Isng tend  reas sd Lislad wtose.                                aisdfel   raut   aes,  irsiced! or   trifid`  Cur os. d
Aarge.1- 10..t -cent estimate of  grcluaeras usd renp-trily c- pas-                             4,eiliatyprocl  ith tr0inin - .raptri--Cs
eastl  fan sePs, p-tcuras, mrket &kitcena gardens or to Ii. fellow,.                       Psuata   nnb-sital bed - Popultion dlvtd.d b e nob.c of hospital bade
avaIlable is pulcsd  rvt  scried apecieli.d hospital .ed
CR? nor set.c (US$l) - Cli per capita estimates at current  arket prices,                       rehabilitation satt.sldsnrsing hoes. Cad ..t.bli.h ..nt. for
Ca1lcult.td by ear  co-erion  ethod .5 World Bask Atlas (19731-75 basts);                     custodial snd prau-ti-s care.
1960; 1970 end 1975 data,                                                                  lee caPita  suPply ofcCte   1ofrotoet) -Coputed lter   .assgy
oquiesleat of net food .opplilt  -nlibLe in  -tonry par capit. pet day;
opeplseino sod vital   tatiati,                                                                 sesll.bl. supplis conpria. doseatic productri-, isports less ..ports, and
JPoecltio   ll(.d-vety   ib e        of luy first,  it eat aviale            nascange. In stack; net supplies ecciud. -nLuc   f,.d, .eada, quentictea  -od
af two end-yast eaiaa  .16 1970 end 1975 data.                                                L.e fond pr-eIcean  and bases in discribucto; r--reetwr  estimated
bY FAO baeed on phy.iologftel ... d. fcr poecl activity ev  health nosid-
Peenletlo deit         - per ur kon -  id1-yer population per sq-r   Wooster                    acing e-I-enetC1 tonporatora, body s.ighs., age sod see distribution  at
(100 kactares) of tonal area,                                        ~pop.ulatio, and a1inin  101 f-r  ats   household leve.
peplatmon de..sIty  P- e          kgar    of at ric, land - Coeputd as shoe  far              etr ceelta supply of protein  (era-  per day) - Pyotele concept of per capita
xgalcultural lend only.                                                                       net aupply of foud pat day, net .ppiy of feud Is dfined as above; require-
ments fea all c            -utr li.at hllld by USDA E-ronRo.i . Oareb S.l...ne
Visa) stattacins                                                        pre~~~~~~~~~~V.Ids fat . mini,r  allow.... of 60 pras. of total p-ateie per day, aod
Csnd. birib race p-rtoasni  aero  -  enusI lire births pee thoussed of                          20 ges af snEIna  Cnd pulse protein, of which 10  ras should ho anLIma
mi-erpopoiation; ten- yee r at trstic serseg.  ending Ic 1960 and 1970,                  protein; these standards are I-e  than those cc 75 free  c  tct.l prtein,
and fII-sr Cver-ge ending Zn 1975 for mast roecotct.ad 23 Sras-  of asisal protein Cs Cn avrage far the world, proposed b7- coo
Crude  dath  rot  per tbneend. soesi  - Amou1 dah.  e  thousand  ft  id-ye.r           In th. Third WSorld Food loS-y.
topulation; te     -    itnslhott~ Cr.g.aeeandtng In 1960 sod 1970 end ties-                Par capite prentel  Cnpply fern .cIma  sad plole  - prelte. supply of food
year  -v-eos ..dig in 1975 for no, inanent as-tlea.                                           de-lud froon aobuels sd POises in grn  per day.
latent nortality rats  f/thou)  A- -Iams  d.ath  of infants undr ona year af sge              Death rats (/thou)  sop  1-4. - A--Ie deaths pet thousan.d An  gn grasp 1-f.
per thonasad live lbtttl.                                                                     years, Co children in this age gropl .ugg.et.d as as indictor nf
lift  eeeciaryfatbirch (yr.)  A-gA.s amber of yaers of life e-.mane  at                     slnotcitien.
birh;  sunly  iveyer avrages Cnding in 1960, 1970 aod 1975 foe develop.-
USg Eosiio                                                                                   d-ntiot,
Cresstotroucttc   rat-runeSe neber of lIie d.ughteta. . a .      w.. tlllbear          Adloate,d., oPunollenthtao - prar  school - gnrnllaeet  f all ages as per-
is helr;= entoIeprold-civ- period Ifst -e-perien-.. present ag-  cX.                           eigso   resysholasppLto;l includes  -Ut... ace'I 6-11 years
farttl!ty -etsa; usuallyfine-y-s  ave ree endIng in 1960, 1970 Cnd 1975                       but adjusted fer dtfferent lagtke of ptlaa-Y education; for  -outries with
for developing conrls                                                                          nts C-  Iadl eduction.  -noi-at, may ascend lOO si nce i-        poptis ann b.1e
Pnpsslatfo  gr-wh  tae LL           ce   C- opotd .anos  grmoth r.t.s of mid-year               or shore the afiti1 school age.
popul.tico for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                Adlueted   ealetratio - .tond.r_y school - Conp.tad as sho.s; aecondaty
VmpaI o I    roIIh rat  (i) - urban - Cepot.d like growth eats of total                         od-etirn r-qoirsa   t cIleast f.cr yaa-  of approved primary inat-ucion;
pouaion; dIfferent de floitn   of. Lrbc  str  may affect cnpa...bility of                 provide  g-enrl, vction1 or tasober teaming icatrootionefor pupils
datasmn   cotis                                                                               o   5t   7yaso c-e;erropon,dence.. corses   a, g-eneraly scoludad.
U3rban  purula.tbo  Z7 ci tot.l) - Milo of urban to total pcpulstion; differet                Ter   fsholn    rvio               rt  and econd_Levels) - Tot.l yesr.  ft
daf.n-san   ef arban area may ai-t  -oparebility of data amon  turi.ehOeM.iin; et secondary Ic.eI, v--sion..  i,str-uclion may ha psetially or
Coapl.toly eucluded.
LA s t-totoo   feer-nt  - Childrsm  (0-14 years), serieaa(15-64 T-ar),                        Vasatiea1 e.rullcnt (Z  at secndary) - Voc.tienal imatitutiene  1-cluda
and retired (65 yst, and over) as parcoetagas of mid-yasr population,                         technoical, indutrial or otho  prosrasa whl,h operate ind.pend.tly or as
eAg  d.PC.dencY r ilu - Racia of population andar I  sod 65 and vvr to choes                     deparnasots of esondary itstit.ti-os
..:f age  II through 64.                                                                     Ad1Ul.t.literacy  rat  (II - Literate  dults (able to r.ad and -its) aa pe-
Snoncisdctvdtn'cratic - l.ianl  of population undat 1  and 65 Cod one Innatgn  intat adult pulio   g.d 1I -yeasr.-d cemo.
the labo  forcein ac  grou  of 11-64 yas
_eil,  :.lani tcau          _ic    (cusuativ. thou) - UMIteslalv  nunbe  of  ...ntape         tbosiec
at birth-cot-r-  deylj-  onder ...Pic.. of nationel tiily planning Prosr                    Persona  ren too     ub-n) - Aca..f nIS. abr of persons Pee  -e  in macspted
eInc  iseto                                                                                    ovntoa  deln, in ure  ares;  welings exlude non-poenanat
Vatply  .. ntin   -usrs(. efmcidwen-Paontag.s at married wne  of                               axructce  sodunopid are
child-bh.aring age (15-44 years)  bblue  ith-=etrol droI... so  l esarrid                     ccIe  dwe ll'iRo  without Piped water  0)-Occupied  --nsneona1 duetLsga
wonos  in see  ag  group.                                                                     im urban .cd r-ral ares wthot itside or outI.de Pipad water facIities
Cs peonenteis of all onopied dweligs
~~gj~~~~socg                                                          Access~~~~~~..   toelorri    .o   l  dclos       eoo Ioa  d-oIlinia with
Total labor forue (th-ussd) - Etcononiely acri-a Parson,  inlding seind                         sle-trinity t. livin  qurt tr. as Percent ef total dwellings in urban  end
ferc.6 sod unemployed hut  -cldieg housewves., students, Cet.; d.fisities                     rata  cress.
inrecou  "toutips are  cicoparable.                                                      Rorsl dweings consete,d  es sleetr1tity  C1)-Capotad Ca above, fec rural
akrforoc  in acrir tr           Agri-Ii t -oLna  Iabar fore  (in farmin, facsr,             dwellings oni.
,bontingdand fihig  as pr-rniag  of t.tai labor fetes.
iPespoe    .o  lbur fncoo - inopisyad are  -uII, defined as persona who                     f7ooCoeiptiot,
ate ahla end wiles. to tale C Job, out of a Job on a given day, ronamo  eat                 Radio  receier   (per  tou  p        A)ll types, of reciver  fer r-dio br.edcasts
I a      Cob,ad see kIng work f creepe  thd n-i-s  period oat eno-ding onIo, ganralEpobSi    rihu-'n  ofpopulation; sorludes unIt.neod rena-ree
meeCk; may sot be  -P crprlebIC    c     _cntrice dna te different daficitlone                 In  -ounrie  and in peers  h.n registration of radio sets was Ln effect;
of nipley.d and sorceof data, e.g., maplosaeot office   taiics, plo                           data fo r ....  years may not be caparabll   t.ins.. sot  -"unri.  belalhld
Paeotr  ears  (pCr thou pon) -  aseg r.nr  conpri.. woter sate asetin
teras    iserlutle P-Peretage at privets  oncase (bath in ...h and kind)                   lees  than eight personal excldes  -busl.nc.., hasras  sod military
receIved by tinhest 5%, richest 20. moo..t 701. and poorest 401 of hous-                       -bcble
bolds.                                                                                      lJIetricfty   flub/yr pot -p) - Anneal  -oaep,ti   ofInutileessf.
pubIlc sod pni-at. l1ctrinity to kilowatt bouts par capita, gon.r. lIp
bUstlihottos  of  lscd owte-bfp                 o arnaa   f lend  -and by wealthiest 101         hosed onproduction date, without allow,anc. far losses is grid. hot ails,-
sod poce.t 105. of land  -.rers                                                                5mg for imports and sopor. of satiiy
RewePtittidflu/y1r  rot_rag), ; Pat teplt i -,a,uI ta.tmn  is kllog,-s
Psaith  and Wutril,on                                                                             slstdio  dossneito prduiton pi.. eat impforts o  oavewprInt.                   -
Vponlition  Ia rh  ca  -  opltion dIvided by mt.he  of prontilan
physinlaca quaLifid fre                 .hd-a abo  at eni-srety leve.



- 21 -
ANNEX I
fte3 o1f 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWIH (%, constant prices)
US$ MHn.                                 1960 -65           1965 -70            1970-76
GNP at Market Prices           492.93       100.0                          o.6                1.9                0.8
Gross Domestic Investment       75.48        15.3                         -3.5                9.3                2.4
Gross National Saving        -   0.02
Current Account Balance      -  75.30    - 15.3                          -3.6                 2.1               -9:2
Exports of Goods, NFS          139.40        28.3                          3.2                6.2                 4.5
Imports of Goods, NFS          228.60        46.4                         5.6                 4.3               12.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 197
Value Added                   Labor Force-/                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.    N_                                                     US $ 
Agriculture                    248.13       50.0                 ..
Industry                        73.49       15.0                  ..
Services                       173.67       35.0                 **
Unallocated
IDP Total/Average           452       100__
1495.29-TO-               100.0                                              100.0
CENTRAL GOVRNMENT FINANCE /2                                                                               %of GDP
( Million US$)-
1971    1972    1973    197       1975    1976        1971    1976        1971 - 1976
Current Receipts               54.2    52.0    46.8    56.3    63.5    62.4           16.3    12.6            14.?
Current Expenditure            64.6    59.      s 58-1    73 3    69.9    80.6        19.4    16.3            17.3
Current Surplus               -10F   -7A   -11.9   -17.0   -764   -                 - 3.    - 3.7            - 
Capital Expenditures            3.8      3.5     4.9      0.2     1.4      0.0         1.1      0.0            0.6
External Assistance (net)        9.4     4.1     2.7      3.2      0.14    11.3        2.8     2.3             1.3
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES/2                 1971          1972         1973        1974         1975         1976
TMillion US$ outstanding end periodrF
Money and Quasi Money                     40.1           40.7         41.7         62.3        69.6         81.9
Bank credit to Public Sector               5.2            9.3         12.3         14.0        10.5         17.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector             40.3           39.8         46.6         53.9        87.4         75.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP         12.1           11.5         12.0         16.5         15.6        16.5
Consumer Price Index (1970 - 100) /3   106.2            109.3       115.2        128.2        148.3        153.3
Annual percentage changes ins
Consumer Price Index                       6.2            2.9          5.4        11.3         15.7          34
Bank credit to Pablic Sector               4.0           78.8         31.2         13.8       -25.0         69.5
Bank credit to Private Sector            -15.0          - 1.2         17.1         1,.7         62.2       - 1.3
NOTEt All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1 Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocatedi' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
To reflect changesin the real values of financial flows, a constant exchange rate of CFA Francs 240/us$
is assumed in these tables.
Ceneral Price Index not available for Chad.
not available
not applicable



-22-                                     ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FWkIO
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                  MCHANDISE EXPORTS
1971           1976       Average 1971-1976
l971    517       1976                  US $ Mln,      US $ Mln        US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS           75.0    118.5    139.4          Cotton     19.0  45       84.0  83       36.8     61
Imports of Goods, NFS          100.0    237.0    228.6         Others      23.3  55       16.7  17      23.3      39
Resource Gap (deficit = )   -25.7    -11                        Total      42.3 100      100.7 100      60.1    100
Workers remittances             0.7       -0.9     -1.3
Interest payments (net)        -1.8  ) - 2.3       -0.9
Other Factor Payments (net)   -0.4  )              -1.1
Net Transfers                   1.3       9.3      17.2
Balance on Current Account   -579     -112.4   Z-7.73
Direct Foreign Investment       0.3      20.3      26,8            EXTERxAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                4.5        ..       .                                                         US $ M
Amortization                 1.8
Subtotal                     2.7       5.3      11.2              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             250.0
Capital Grants                 28.9      53.3      68.4              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)             4.1       o.6      -8.0              Total outstanding including undisbursed 23_5Z
Other items n.e.i               0.7       0.7       1.7                           (of which diskfysed)          (95.4)
Increase in Reserves (+)       10.8     -29        24.8            DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976-
Gross Reserves (end year)      11.2       3.1      23.2
Net Reserves   (end year)       8.2     -19.0       4.1              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               9.0
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding including undisbursed  9 0
Imports
of which:  Petroleam       10.2      14.42#    .
Exports
of which:  Petroleum         .          .        .       IBRD/IDA LENDING, (latest month) (Million US
R S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD                                                             IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE        US                                                                             IBRID
Outstanding & Disbursed                .         22.0
1971: 277     1974: 240                                        Undisbursed                             .         29.1
1972: 256     1975: 214                                        Outstanding incl. Undisbursed           *         51
1973: 230     1976: 239
I/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
S/ Staff estimate
1 Unless otherwise indicated
,  not available
. not applicable
January 6, 1978



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHAD
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (March 31, 1978)
Credit
Number    Year      Borrower        Purpose            ------------US$ Million-----------
(less cancellations) (undisbursed)
125      1968       Chad        Highway maintenance         4.1                   0*
126      1969       Chad       Education                    2.2 /1                 -
251      1971       Chad        Second Education            2.7 77                0.2
309      1972       Chad        Livestock                   2.2                   0.1
445      1973       Chad        Drought Relief              2.0                   0.0**
489      1974       Chad        Irrigation                  7.5                   1.2
489-1    1976       Chad        Irrigation                  8.0                   8.0
490      1974       Chad        Second Highway              3.5                   1.0
592      1975       Chad       Lake Chad Polders            5.0                   3.2
664      1976       Chad        Rural Projects Fund        12.0                  10.9
739 /4   1977       Chad        Sahelian Zone Project       1.9                   1.9
Total now held by IDA                 51.1 /3 /5             26.5
Total undisbursed                     26.5
/1   Includes supplementary credit of US$0.4 million.
/2   Includes supplementary credit of US$0.5 million.
/3   Prior to exchange rate adjustment.
/4   Not yet effective.
/5   The Second Livestock Project ($11.5 million) was signed after the date
of this table.
*    9,546.28 undisbursed.
**   3,260.75 undisbursed.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (March 31, 1978)
Nil.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 125      Highway Maintenance Project:  US$4.1 million Credit of
August 14, 1968;_Effective Date: February 11, 1969;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project originally consisted of (a) a 5-year program for
highway maintenance including technical assistance, the procurement of
equipment and materials, repair shop extension, training of operators and
mechanics, and establishment of traffic data collection system; and (b)
feasibility studies, and if found justified, detailed engineering for the
Djermaya-Djimtilo road.
The project was practically completed on December 31, 1973 but two
of its components were not implemented: the training program was dropped at
the Government's request because the cost of the consultants' proposals ex-
ceeded the amount available under the credit. However, a comprehensive train-
ing program is included in the Second Highway Project. The feasibility study
for improvement of the Djermaya-Djimtilo road was completed; however, detailed
engineering found premature, has been deferred due to low traffic volume. The
project closing date has been postponed to allow disbursements of available
credit funds to complement the training program being carried out under the
Second Highway Project.
Credit No. 126      Education Project:  US$2.2 million Credit of August 29,
1968 (as amended); Effective Date: December 31, 1968;
Closing Date: Closed (fully disbursed).
The project consists of (a) the construction and equipping of a
teacher training college at Moundou and (b) the construction and equipping
of an Agricultural Technician Training Center at N'Djamena (transferred to
Sarh under Credit 251-CD).
The Teacher Training College has been completed and put into opera-
tion and the credit fully disbursed in the first quarter of 1976, about two
and a half years behind schedule. Reasons for the delay were (a) delay in
reaching agreement on each stage of design; (b) the need to revise the design
and negotiate with the lowest bidder because of cost overruns; and (c) the
need to amend the Credit Agreement to resolve the financial problems created
by the US dollar devaluation and internal budgetary difficulties. The
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
college has faced financial difficulties since it started operating. However,
Government will increase the budgetary allocation and this is expected to lead
to its adequate operation in the future.
Credit No. 251      Second Education Project:  US$2.7 million Credit
of June 16, 1971 (as amended); Effective Date:
December 28, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project consists of (a) the construction and equipping of a
secondary technical school at N'Djamena; (b) supply of complementary equip-
ment for the existing vocational training center at N'Djamena; (c) the
transfer of the agricultural technician training center, financed under
Credit 126-CD, from N'Djamena to Sarh; and (d) a study of young farmers'
training schemes.
The project is almost totally completed about 12 months behind
schedule due to (a) delay in reaching agreement on the educational and
architectural programs for the Technical Secondary School; (b) delay in
preparation of equipment lists; and (c) the need to amend the Credit Agree-
ment to resolve the financial problems created by the devaluation of the
US dollar and internal budgetary difficulties. The Secondary Technical
School has opened but its effective operation has been hampered by inade-
quate financing and lack of staff. As a result of a grant from the Federal
Republic of Germany and of increased budgetary allocations, improved opera-
tions are anticipated for the school-year commencing in September 1978. The
Agricultural Technician Training Centre has not yet opened due to lack of
teaching staff. A grant from FAC and a Technical Assistance component in the
proposed Third Education Project are expected to enable the opening of the
Centre in September 1979.
Credit No. 309      Livestock Development Project:  US$2.2 million Credit of
May 31, 1972; Effective Date: November 28, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31. 1977.
The project consists of (a) the construction of 18 new pastoral
wells and the repair and rehabilitation of 20 existing wells in the Batha
prefecture; (b) the establishment of two well maintenance units, including
their operating costs for the first two years; and (c) special studies
carried out by a Livestock Development Unit (LDU) established with UNDP
assistance.
Although the credit became effective in November 1972, project
implementation was begun only following the Board's decision to finance
100 percent of project costs net of duties and taxes, and to establish a
revolving account, which became effective in March 1974. Well construction
and repairs were completed by end of 1976. Well maintenance units are in
operation. Most of the studies, including water extraction and livestock
taxation are completed. Field works on the remaining studies namely the



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
identification of pastoral groups and the production of sheep and goats
are also completed. UNDP did not extend its assistance to LDU, due to
unsatisfactory results and this unit: is now integrated in the Livestock
Services.
Credit No. 445      Drought Relief Fund Project:  US$2.0 million Credit of
December 7, 1973; Effective Date: March 22, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31. 1978.
The project is designed to help people in areas affected by the
drought to re-establish their productive base; it comprises the following
eight subprojects: equipment, workshops, technical assistance and operating
costs for underground water development; equipment and operating costs for
"Genie Rural", "Water Survey Bureau", and "Land Development Department";
equipment, buildings and operating costs for the Livestock Service; construc-
tion of warehouses; equipment and operating costs for a vegetable growing
pilot scheme; and equipment and operating costs for the Planning Department.
Physical execution of the project is satisfactory, with all of the
eight subprojects completed or nearly completed.
Credit No. 489      Sategui-Deressia Irrigation Proiect:-/ US$15.5 million
Credit of October 7, 1976; Effective Date: February 9,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
660 ha inside and 1,200 ha outside the polder area were culti-
vated in 1977, and yields achieved have been above expectations. Construc-
tion of most buildings (except the r;ice mill and storehouses) is completed.
Irrigation works are progressing satisfactorily; the introduction of labor-
intensive techniques has attracted some 1,300 workers, among the poorest
in the region, and given the project a social and regional dimension.
Costs are within appraisal forecasts. Altogether, the project is being
carried out satisfactorily, the main problem being the recruitment of coun-
terparts, which from the beginning has been a matter of concern.
Credit No. 490      Second Highway Project:  US$3.5 million Credit of
June 28, 1974; Effective Date: March 7, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The project originally consisted of (a) a five-year program for
improvement and maintenance of feeder roads in cotton growing areas; (b)
pre-investment studies for about 120 km in cotton export routes; (c) a
two-year training program for DPW staff; (d) technical assistance for the
reorganization of the road transport industry; (e) a two-year traffic count
1/   Including the supplementary credit of US$8.0 million approved on
August 10, 1976.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
on about 2,000 km of the most important roads; (f) reconditioning of ferry
boats and their interim maintenance over a three-year period; and (g)
feasibility study for replacement of ferry boats and improvement of dock
facilities.
Project implementation is about ten months behind schedule. Pre-
investment studies were completed. However, detailed engineering for the
roads studies were not implemented as one road was not economically justified
and the second was contingent upon construction of a soap factory which never
materialized. In order to ensure continuity of the training program this
component has been extended at the expense of the road component. The Asso-
ciation and the Government therefore agreed to include in the proposed Third
Highway Project the amounts required to complete the five-year maintenance
program.
Credit No. 592      Lake Chad Polders Project:  US$5 million Credit of
November 26, 1975; Effective Date: February 26, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project comprises rehabilitation or construction of irrigation
and drainage networks of two polders of about 1,200 ha, to permit cotton and
wheat cultivation.
Although the project initially suffered a one-year delay because
the expatriate consultants were not appointed on time, this delay is pro-
gressively being reduced and should be made up by the time the second polder
developed under the project is completed. Most contracts have been awarded
and on this basis, project costs are estimated to be well within appraisal
estimates. Building on this initial success, Government is exploring with
other external donors the financing of the contiguous Mamdi polder (1,600
ha), which would bring the total area under polder development to 2,800 ha,
and thus create an important nucleus for development in that part of the
country.
Credit No. 664      Rural Projects Fund:  US$12.0 million of December 8,
1976; Effective Date: March 2, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The project comprises seven subprojects: (a) small-scale
irrigation, (b) warehouses, (c) pastoral wells, (d) village water supplies,
(e) feeder road improvements, (f) animal feed and poultry marketing, (g)
bottomland development as well as a management unit.
The management unit is now fully staffed and key personnel have
been engaged for six of the seven subprojects. Execution of the work pro-
gram for 1976/77 has suffered from delayed effectiveness but the project
is now gearing up for full scale operations in 1977/78.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Credit No. 739      Sahelian Zone Project:  US$1.9 million of September 28, 1977:
Effective Date: May 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project comprises fourteen subprojects leading to (a) increased
development of crop farming, (b) sustained and improved animal health services,
(c) maintenance of water supply, (d) expansion of forestry activities, and (e)
increase in Government's capacity to deliver transport services. The finali-
zation of the cofinancing agreement by the Canadian International Development
Agency is a condition of effectiveness; this condition has not yet been met.
Credit No. 783-CD Second Livestock Project: US$11.5 million of April 14,
1978: Effective Date: July 13, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The project's main objectives are: (a) to develop livestock pro-
duction particularly in the Sahelian zone; (b) to bring pastoralists to
accept responsibility for the environment through their participation in
the management and improvement of communal rangelands and stock watering
points; (c) to broaden the field of competence of the Livestock Department,
from provision of animal health services to provision of animal and pastoral
productivity services; and (d) to increase the scope of livestock production
in the south of the country through tsetse eradication.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1: Timetable of key events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project              :  24 months
(b)  Project prepared by                        : Government and IDA
(c)  First time documents presented to IDA   : January 1976
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission             :  February 1, 1977
(e)  Negotiations completed                     : April 14, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness                 September 15, 1978
Section II:  Special IDA Implementation Actions
Two Joint Evaluation missions by the Government and IDA:
(a) The first joint evaluation after 18 months to determine
timing of departure of technical assistance personnel, (b)
the second joint evaluation after 30 months to examine
progress of curriculum reforms and retraining of teachers.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   submission of a plan leading to the opening of the Agricul-
tural Technician Training Centre in Sahr by September 1979
(condition of effectiveness, para. 36);
2.   submission to IDA of an acceptable proposal regarding sites
for the first year and for subsequent years (para. 45);
3.   appointment of a Technical Director of the School Building
Unit and recruitment of technical assistance staff (condition
of effectiveness para. 46);
4.   appointment of three technical assistance specialists with
qualifications and under terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA (condition of effectiveness para. 47);
5.   receipt by IDA of an acceptable plan and a timetable for cur-
riculum reform and teacher retraining (para. 51);
6.   teachers at the project schools will be given priority for
training in the context of existing teacher training programs
(para. 50);



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
7.   should any disbursements be made from the revolving fund
established to help finance the project which are not eligible
for financing from the proceeds of the credit, the Government
will deposit the corresponding amount in the revolving fund
account (para. 55);
8.   terms of reference and qualifications of all consultants
undertaking the studies financed under the project will
have terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to
IDA (para. 51);
9.   the signing of the co-financing agreement and the fulfillment
of all its conditions of effectiveness save the effectiveness
of the IDA Credit (conditions of effectiveness, para. 54); and
10.   disbursement of funds for civil works would be subject to
the depletion of grant funds provided by UNCDF for this
purpose (para. 55).



_-T--                                      IBRD- 13198
,   150   a   /   -'  20                 OCTOBER 1977
*\/-                                             N E   *-.s
N.t  ' s          L I  B Y A
i   \                      0Aczou                   . .
CHAD                  g wour  ,                                    N
C H A D                                             ,''.
THIRD EDUCATION                                                .Zouar
PROJECT                                     j -r                                                                                                       20 -
Prc,e2' rB
DENSITY OF POPULATION                                                                                                                                  |
,hab,tonts per KM2 (by prefecture)         J
Less than 2                          T*
21-                                 ,
Over 10
Ma n roads                              j
Secondary roads                         I                                             Largeou
Other roads                            j
--Rivers|i
Prefecture bourdaries              Z
- .-     International boundar es               !Fodo
o    50   1O0  150   200  250                   I                                     4
Klaorneters                                  -                          (
50       too       n 5.                            -7'-
Miles                         I/ 
/ ..             , /        1    -' >. _. ,.Zs Oum Chalouba
I /                   n < _  /   Iriba
n|OU                            Solal /
(SS/S7t>~~~~~ X     //               B  4 r hS ,(2          I          xpiX~~~~~~~~~~~Bil ine  k
N  I G  E                                                                                                    Abkh.
~~*~\____  i   Lake                                                      _ 7  jedoa
___                                                             Mongalme                     fr.   s   ~~~~U    D   A    N
a-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
CA  M1 E R 0  QP-
,1~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                                                 0



