Do_uen Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Ci9 /1?       - @4
Report No. P-4279-GUB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 3.2 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-RISSAU
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
April 30, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be uced by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCIES
Current Unit   =    Peso Guineense (PG)
US$1.00        =    PG 170  at
'WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DHSA      "Departamento de Hidraulica e Solos Agricolas" (Department of
Irrigation)
GAPLA     "Gabinete de Planificacao" (Planning Bureau of MDRP)
MDRP      'Ministerio de Desenvolvimento Rural e Pescas  (Ministry of Rural
Development and Fisheries)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -    December 31
a/   Official exchange rate at appraisal (December 1985)-



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           The Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Beneficiary:        Ministry of Rural Development and Fisheries (MDRP)
Credit Amount:      SDR 3.2 million (US$3.7 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Cofinancier:        The Netherlands (6.0 million Guilders Grant)
Project
Description:        The project's objective  will be  to build  up, over  a
three-year period, a capacity in the MDRP to (1) manage
its human resources, with particular attention to the
management of technical assistance, (2) plan activities
in the agriculture sector and coordinate external aid,
(3)  fulfill  its  technical  role  in  the   different
agriculture subsectors and (4) ensure monitoring of
sectoral implementation and impact of the Government's
Structural Adjustment Program (1987-88). First. MDRP
manAgement will be supported with a Hunnan Resources
Division, established in GAPLA, its planning bureau, to
manage technical assistance and to make recommendations
on local personnel management policies. Second, MDRP's
capacity in sector planning will be enhAnced by further
strengthening GAPLA in the following functions: (a)
collection, analysis and interpretation of statistics;
(b) strategy and policy planning; (c) aid coordination;
(d)  project   planning;   and   (e)   monitoring   and
evaluation. Third, MDRP's support services will be
strengthened through selective improvements in its
technical  departments.   Depending  on  the   specific
priority needs of each Department, the project will
provide physical facilities (civil works. equipment,
vehicles), technical assistance, training and operating
funds. A special fund will also be established to meet
needs, as they arise, for pilot investment operations
and special studies.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs:
1 of
Base
Local       Foreian        Total        Costs
--------- US$ million----------
I.  Investment Costs
A. Civil Works               0.18          0.28         0.46           8
B. Vehicles                   -           0.28          0.28           5
C. Equipment and Furniture  0.04          0.42          0.46           8
D. Technical Assistance       -           2.08          2.08         37
E. Training Studies, and
Consultants                -           0.83          0.83         15
F. Special Fund               -           0.70          0.70         12
G. Project Preparation        -           0.20          0.20           3
Total Investment Costs   0.22          4.79          5.01         88
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Local Staff               0.26           -           0.26           5
B. Travel and Allowance      0.12          -            0.12           2
C. Operating Costs and
Maintenance               0.13         0.18          0.31           5
Total Recurrent Costs    0.51          0.18          0.69         12
Base Costs                   0.73         4.97          5.70        100
Contingencies                0.19         1.11          1.30
Total Project Costs          0.92         6.08          7.00
Proposed Financing Plan:
IDA                          0.1          3.6           3.7
Government                   0.8           -            0.8
Netherlands                   -           2.5           2.5
Total                0.9           6.1           7.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
FY87         FY88          FY89         FY90         FY91
Annual                0.5          0.8           1.0          0.9          0.5
Cumulative            0.5          1.3           2.3          3.2          3.7



- ili -
Proiect Benefits:   The project will  strengthen the Ministry's   anagerial
and technical capability so that it could support the
agriculture sector by giving policy direction, provid-
Ing technical services, and managing the investment
program.  This enhanc"d capacity will allow the NDRP to
ensure monitoring of sectoral implementation of the
Government's Structural Adjustment Program (1987-88).
A particular benefit will be the creation of the
capacity to manage technical assistance for the sector
as a whole, to coordinate the funding of development
projects by external agencies, and to attract additio-
nal external financial resources.
Project Risks:      The main  project risks  relate to  possible delays  in
recruiting and retaining qualified technical personnel,
to the difficulty of providing them with counterpart
staff of adequate caliber, to the complexity of formul-
ating and implementing training programs adapted to
local needs, and to the slow policy reform process.
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
There is no Staff Appraisal Report.
Map: IBRD 15779R.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 3.2 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUMNEA-BISSAU
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
1.        I submit the  following report and  recommendation on a  proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Guinea-Bissau for an amoant in
various currencies equivalent to Special Drawing Rights 3.2 million (US$3.7
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to assist in the financing of  an
Agricultural Services Project. Additional financing for the project will
be provided by the Netherlands in an amount of 6.0 million Guilders (Us$2.5
million equivalent).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Report No. 6361, 'Guinea-Bissau: A Prescription for Comprehensive
Adjustment, distributed to the Executive Directors in April 1987 presents
an analysis of the country's economic performance and sets forth the
essential elements of a comprehensive structural adjustment strategy for
Guinea-Bissau. The Report also discusses the strengthening of the public
investment planning process and the improvement of the public investment
program with respect to size, sectoral allocation and project composition.
This section su marizes its contents.  Economic data appear in Annex 1.
Background
3.        Guinea-Bissau is a small country (36.125 kmZ) located on the West
African coast between Senegal and Guinea (Map IBRD 15779R), with a popula-
tion of about 900,000 inhabitants, of which over 80Z is rural. An esti-
mated 1986 per capita income of only US$185 places this country among the
poorest in the world. The economy is characterized by a large traditional
sector, producing primarily for self-consumption. Accordingly, measure-
ments of economic activity are subject to an unusual degree of uncertainty.
The primary sector -- agriculture, fisheries, livestock, and forestry --
accounts for about 90Z of employment, 60Z of GDP, and 75Z of foreign ex-
change earnings. The marketed portion of output is relatively small and
largely confined to export crops, while rice, the urban food staple, is for
the most part imported. The scarcity of manufactured goods in the country-
side has contributed to the low level of monetization and market activity.
4.        After independence in  1974, Guinea-Bissau  adopted an  ambitious
public investment program that focussed on the manufacturing sector,
neglected agriculture, and resulted in a large external debt without a
commensurate increase in the  country"s ability to  service that debt.   An
overvalued exchange rate and inappropriate pricing policies, coupled with
an  inefficient   marketing  system,   deterred  agricultural   production,



-2-
depressed exports, stimulated growing parallel markets, and led to an
increased dependence on foreign aid for financing a large share of the
imports of basic necessities. A rapid increase in National Bank credit to
the Government fueled domestic inflation which in turn increased the
overvaluation of the exchange rate. At the same time, the external pay-
ments situation remained tenuous, with mounting arrears. As a result,
imports had to be rationed and farmers were unable to find the desired
consumer goods.   The  economic  situation was  aggravated  by  unfavorable
circumstances outside the control of the authorities, especially droughts
and, at times. depressed world market prices for the country's main ex-
ports.
5.        In 1983, the  Government adopted a market-oriented and  agricul-
ture-based development strategy through a stabilization program designed to
correct price distortions and to improve efficiency in the management of
public sector finances. In December 1983, the Government took the initial
measures of the adjustment program which was supported by an IMF first
credit-tranche starting in July 1984. These measures included: (a) an
immediate devaluation of the peso from PG 44 to PG 88 per SDR and the
introduction of weekly devaluations, (b) increases in producer and consumer
prices generally in line with the devaluation, (c) increases in taxes, and
(d) for the first time, payment of interest on savings deposits.
6.        The recovery process  was generally maintained  in 1984 but  lost
momentum in 1985 and 1986 partly because of unexpected adverse exogenous
factors including depressed world prices for palm oil. groundnuts. and
c^tton, but primarily due to implementation delays and insufficient adjust-
ment measures on the part of the Government. Uhile weekly devaluations
continued at an annual rate of about 50 percent, domestic inflation fed by
excessive expansion of credit to the Government kept the differential
between parallel market and official exchange rates unchanged at about
3-to-l. Although consumer and farmgate prices increased generally in line
with inflation, parallel markets for key goods continued to thrive and
continuing shortages of inputs and consumer goods reduced farmers' incen-
tive to produce. Necessary institutional reforms proceeded slowly, parti-
cularly the privatization of state retail stores and the reorganization of
state enterprises. The composition and level of public investment remained
inappropriate, contributing to a large Government deficit.
7.        Although the measures adopted since the launching of the  adjust-
ment program in December 1983 have had some positive impact on the level of
agricultural output, serious economic imbalances still confronted Guinea
Bissau at end-1986, in particular:
(i) large foreign trade deficits (nearly 40 percent of GDP in
1986) stemming from excessive public and private consumption
in relation to GDP, combined with underpriced imports and
inadequate export incentives;
(ii) a public investment program that, despite a 10 percent
reduction for 1986, remained unwieldy and large;



-3-
(iii) a budget deficit equal to 21 percent of GDP in 1986 that
required financing from unsustainable levels of domestic
borrowing;
(iv) rapid money supply growth (41 percent in 1986), largely
engendered by budget deficits, that fed inflation and offset
the effects of the weekly devaluations;
tv) heavy reliance on external assistance equal to nearly one-
half of GDP without adequate consideration of the best uses
for the aid resources available; and
(vi) external debt service payments exceeding the country's
capacity to pay, leading to a rapid increase in external
arrezrs.
8.        The Government realizes that the magnitude of the economic crisis
-- in particular the extent of relative price distortions and the size of
the macroeconomic disequilibria--implies that incremental policy changes
would be ineffective. Therefore. the Government is determined to implement
profound adjustment measures in order to avoid a situation from which
recovery would be extremely difficult.
Medium-Term Prospects
9.        In order to resolve the present economic and financial crisis and
to avoid a further deterioration of the situation, the Government intends
to systematically pursue  an outward-oriented  development strategy.   This
strategy will take advantage of Guinea-Bissau's relatively extensive
natural resource base for the expansion of agriculture at low cost, taking
into account the socio-economic structure of the rural sector which rests
on small farmers who would be hard to aid with large scale Government
projects in agriculture and whose contact with the modern sector is primar-
ily through small traders. A further consideration is that Guinea-Bissau
does not have a large enough market or sufficient skilled personnel to
sustain much modern industry at this time.
10.       In light of  these natural, social  and economic conditions,  the
following three fundamental objectives underlie Guinea-Bissau's development
strategy:
(i)  a strong expansion of agricultural output and exports  ba--ed
on the country's comparative advantage in low-cost produc-
tion of cashew nuts, palm kernels. and groundnuts and on an
opening of the economy to the pressures of market forces;
(ii) a retrenchment of the public sector towards the provision of
basic infrastructure in support of production and exports in
line with the possibilities of public resource mobilization;
and



-4-
(iii) a concerted financial strategy to mobilize needed conces-
sional external resources to achieve stabilization over the
medium term and balanced growth over the longer term.
11.       In order to achieve these objectives, the Government has launched
a comprehensive structural adjustment program with the aim of eliminating
distortions in the incentive system while reducing internal and external
macroeconomic imbalances. The sequencing of the various adjustment measu-
res has been determined in the context of a medium-term macroeconomic
framework establishing consistency among national accounts, public finan-
ces, balance of  payments and  the external debt.   In the  context of  the
Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1987-89 prepared in consultation with IDA
and the IMF, the Government is establishing interim performance targets
that will be closely monitored by the Bank under the proposed SAL and the
IMF under the proposed Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) credit. During
the first phase of this program, which would be completed by about March
1988. the following targets would be achieved:
Ci)  the gap between  the parallel market and  the official  ex-
change rates would be closed;
(ii) the differential between domestic and international infla-
tion would be reduced by half to less than 25 percentage
points through appropriate monetary and credit policies;
(iii) the share of the Government deficit in GDP would be reduced
to about 15 percent, through a series of adjustment measures
to increase current revenues, contain current expenditures.
and reduce the size of the public investment program;
(iv)  distortions in external trade incentives  would be  removed
through the abolition of duty exemptions and the  automatic
issuance of import licenses for most imports;
(v)  distortions in  agricultural  incentives  would be  removed
through the abolition of export taxes except on cashews,  on
which taxes will be reduced;
(vi) most distortions in domestic incentives would be removed by
limitating price controls to rice, sugar, cooking oil.
fertilizer and petroleum products. and through import parity
pr4.cing for all goods except rice sold to public employees;
an-.
(vii) nominal interest rates will be increased so that real
interest rates will become positive.
12.       Similar targets will be established  for successive years of  the
structural adjustment program, consistent with the goals outlined by the
Government in its PFP, including the reduction of inflation to 8Z, the



-5-
continued reduction in the fiscal deficit, the doubling of exports, and the
containment of imports through reduction in public investment and expansion
of rice output. These targets will be subject to revision at regular
intervals ia light of unforseen changes in conditions. The Government will
move quickly to implement corrective actions, where needed, to ensure the
achievement of the overall aims for the structural adjustment program,
especially macroeconomic stability, through higher output.
13.       The structural adjustment program would be supported by a compre-
hensive strategy for regularizing Guinea-Bissau's international payments.
The Government will repay all arrears to multilateral creditors. It will
also approach those bilateral and private creditors who have not yet
rescheduled their debt to reach agreement on an orderly settlement of
arrears and a  realistic schedule  for future debt  service payments.   The
Government will also reduce its external borrowing and limit such borrowing
to concessional loans.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA-BISSAU
14.       IDA has  made nine  credits  to Guinea-Bissau  totalling  US$73.9
million. Four have been in the transport sector, two for petroleum explor-
ation, one for the strengthening of the country'*s macroeconomic management
capability, and two for financing urgently needed imports in support of the
Government's economic recovery program. Annex II contains a summary of
IDA's operations in Guinea-Bissau.
15.       IDA's assistance has focuEsed  on urgently needed  rehabilitation
and maintenance of roads under the First Roads Project, Credit 878-GUB for
US$9.0 million (FY79) and the Second Roads Project, Credit 1473-GUB for
US$8.0 million (FY84). Further assistance in the transport sector is being
provided under the Bissau Port Project, Credit 1392-GUB for US$16.0 million
(FY83), which involves the rehabilitation of the port of Bissau and small
river ports throughout the country. The two Roads Projects are strengthen-
ing the local maintenance capability by training local road maintenance
brigades. The two credits in the petroleum sector are helping Government
to carry out offshore oil exploration through the collection, processing
and ev&luation of seismic data, provision of training and physical facili-
ties, and assistance in establishing a sound legal framework for negotiat-
ing exploration contracts.   The surveys  under the  First Oil  Exploration
Project were implemented expeditiously and led to the identification of six
offshore lots which were submitted for bids. In November 1983, a consor-
tium headed by ELF Aquitaine began drilling operations. Surveys under the
Second Project are progressing satisfactorily.
16.       Technical assistance has  played an important  role in the  above
projects. In FY85, IDA approved the US$6.0 million Technical Assistance
Credit (1517-GUB) to assist Government in strengthening the macroeconomic
management capability  of key  economic institutions  and in  developing  a
sound institutional framework in newly created ministries and agencies.
Its objective is to provide Government with the technical and managerial



- 6 -
ezpertise necessary  to  support  economic recovery.   After  some  initial
delays, the Project is now well under way and most of the experts are in
place. IDA also approved the US$10.0 million Reconstruction Import Credit
(RIC, Cr. 1531-GUB) to assist in providing urgently needed agricultural,
transport, energy and other essential imports to support the economic
recovery program and ensure economic activity during the design and imple-
mentation of reform measures. A supplementary credit of US$5.0 million
from the African Special Facility (FY 86) ensured needed imports for 1986
and the continuation of the policy reform program.
17.       Future IDA operations in Guinea-Bissau should continue to respond
to Government's economic policy reforms as well as to its requests for
assistance in developing its human capital, strengthening its implementa-
tion capacity, and rehabilitating its physical infrastructure.   Structural
reforms and studies, including an in-depth study of agricultural prices and
incentives, are being supported through the Technical Assistance Project.
A Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL) and a population/health project will
be submitted shortly for consideration by the Executive Directors, and an
education project is being prepared.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
18.       Agriculture dominates the country's economy, providing a  liveli-
hood for 802 of the population and generating approximately 60Z of GDP and
9OZ of exports. The crop subsector contributes approximntely 55Z of sector
GDP, fisheries and forestry 7Z, and livestock 382.
A.   Resource Base and Structure
19.       The country's climate, which varies from a Guinean-maritime  type
on the coast (up to 2,500 mm rainfall in the South) to a Sudanese type in
the interior (1,200 mm in July, August and September in the North) deter-
mines the vegetation pattern. The coastal alluvial zone, comprising the
islands and the estuaries, is characterized by the presence of abundant
palm trees and mangroves. The intermediate zone is marked by forest of
variable quality mixed with palmgroves. The eastern zone is mostly savan-
nah similar to that  found in neighboring  Senegal and Guinea-Conakry.   Of
Guinea-Bissau's 3.3 million ha of land, only about 300,000 ha are culti-
vated and 150,000 are fallow. The rest is covered by forests (2.3 million
ha), palmgroves (200,000 ha), and mangroves (300.000 ha); of the 300,000 ha
under cultivation, 120,000 ha are under rice (105,000 ha flooded rice and
15,000 ha rainfed rice), 90,000 ha are under rainfed cereals (maize,
sorghum, millet), 60,000 ha are under groundnuts, and about 20,000 ha are
under tubers, legumes and fruits (cashewnuts and bananas).
20.       Except for a few medium-size private entrepreneurs  (ponteiros),
who produce some vegetables, fruits, cashews, and mainly alcohol from sugar
cane using improved technology, most agriculture in Guinea-Bissau is of a
traditional nature. Fertilizers are rarely used, and cultural practices



and varieties are seldom improved. Most rice is grown in mangroves under a
traditional but sophisticated system that requires a large skilled labor
force to  build water  control structures.   For  the  rest,  agricultural
cultivation is mainly  rainfed.   Outputs fluctuate  widely  depending  on
rainfall. Productivity is constrained by a lack of incentives and inputs,
and poor support nervices -- except perhaps in the small pockets of speci-
fic development projects.
B.   Past Performance
21.       Guinea-Bissau's  historical  levels  of  production  and  natural
resource base suggest that the country could easily attain self-sufficiency
in rice and other staples (e.g., rainfed cereals and tubers) and even
produce substantial surpluses for export (notably groundnuts, cotton, palm
products, and cashewnuts), as it did in the 1950s, when about 460,000 ha
were under cultivation and the country was self-sufficient in cereals.
During the 10-year independence war, production declined substantially as
irrigation systems for rice cultivation were damaged and the rural popula-
tion moved or emigrated. After independence, despite Government's efforts,
production did not regain its former levels. The weak institutional base
led to ill-conceived and unproductive projects, while inadequate marketing
and pricing policies discriminated against agriculture. Recurrent droughts
further increased the food gap between production and consumption, and the
overvaluation of the currency led to supply shortages and depressed ex-
ports. Faced with adverse terms of trade and lack of goods in exchange for
their crops, farmers limited their production to home consumption, reori-
ented sales  to neighboring countries,  or  left the  sector.   Government
resorted increasingly to cheap food imports and food aid, which interfered
further with the development of agricultural production.
22.       The main  staple, rice,  accounts for  about one  third of  total
agricultural production; its weak performance largely explains the long
downward trend in agricultural output.   The area cultivated declined  from
about 150.000 ha in 1953 to about 120,000 ha today; milled rice per capita
went from 102 kg/year to 65 kglyear over the same period. Production of
about 65,000 tons (milled rice equivalent) in 1984 was complemented with
imports of 37,000 tons of milled rice and 7,000 tons of other cereals.
23.       Production of  groundnuts,  palm kernels  and  cashewnuts,  which
represented more than 70Z of the country's foreign exchange earnings in
1984, has suffered from inadequate pricing and marketing systems.   Produc-
tion of groundnuts, which alone accounts for one fourth of exports, amoun-
ted to 40,000 tons in 1984, a level slightly below that of 1961, but well
below the 64,000 tons produced in 1953 and the 70,000 tons required to
efficiently run  the large  processing  plant at  Cumere.  The  decline  in
cashewnut and palm kernel exports cannot be determined with any degree of
certainty due to unrecorded volumes  in earlier years.   In 1984,  exports
amounted to 2,000 tons and 7,000 tons respectively.



- 8 -
24.       Guinea-Bissau's extensive forestry  resources are greatly  under-
exploited (controlled extraction amounted to only 20,000 m3 in 1985). Reve-
nues from the subsector are small and decreased by over 50 from 1980 to
1984. The major factors that constrain the rational exploitation of the
country's forestry  resources are:   first, a  lack of  planning  (detailed
resources inventory became available only in 1985); second, inadequate
legislation and non-enforcement of existing legislation due to scarce human
and physical resources; and third, a still-born reforestation program that
suffered from insufficient financial and human resources.
25.       Fisheries account for a small share of GDP, but represent 30Z  of
foreign exchange earnings. This subsector has shown considerable scope for
development. Benefits were expected from joint ventures with foreign
investors to catch fish and market fish products, and from the licensing of
foreign boats to operate in Guinea Bissau's territorial waters under
bilateral agreements, but the joint ventures have experienced organiza-
tional and management difficulties and the prices quoted under the licens-
ing agreements have underestimated prevailing international market rates.
This, coupled with limited artisanal fishing, resulted in the subsector
contributing only an average 22 of GDP. Commercial catches by foreign
boats are estimated at close to the offshore maximum sustainable yield
(250,000 to 300,000 tons annually), but domestic landings are only 1,000
tons. The 700 ton annual catches by artisanal fishing represent a small
portion of the coastal resources (the estuaries and the Bijagos Archipelago
-- see Map), estimated at 8,000 tons annually. Lack of incentives for
artisanal fishing is a major constraint to increased domestic production.
26.       Livestock makes  an important  contribution  to the  economy  and
diet. The subsector has also an impact on crop production because of the
expanded use of animal traction. However, the meat self-sufficiency target
pursued by Government has not been achieved due to a lack of price incen-
tives, inadequate marketing systems and policies, neglected animal health
and unfamiliarity with nomadic and other traditional production systems.
C.   Incentive Framework and Marketing System
PricinR
27.       Through 1986, producer  prices remained low  due to  Government's
foreign exchange, pricing and marketing policies. First, the currency was
overvalued (para. 4),  which heavily taxed  exports especially  cashewnuts,
palm kernels and groundnuts and subsidized rice imports. Second, Govern-
ment fixed the  producer prices  for these  crops in  such a manner as  to
collect large revenues from  the trading of export  crops.  'hen the  over-
valuation of  the currency  is  taken into  account,  the overall  rate  of
taxation on producers in 1986 was very high at 75Z for groundnuts, 85Z for
palm kernels and 90Z for cashewnuts. Due to the exchange rate distortion,
consumer goods and other imports entered the country at low prices.
Government could not afford to import sufficient amounts of these goods to
satisfy the local demand at these low prices. There was scarcity especial-
ly in rural areas, despite a significant improvement in 1985-86 in supply



- 9 -
availabilitiec as a result of the imports financed by aid, including the
Bank's RIC.   Because of  the shortage  of  goods, the  peso was  at  times
displaced as a means of exchange by rice. Much of the official trade was
conducted by barter, with Government having to offer rice in exchange for
export crops.
28.       Recognizing the shortcomings  of the  above policies,  Government
raised producer prices by 41Z in January 1986 and again by 30Z in November
1986. after a 64Z increase in 1985; the average annual inflation was 35Z.
In August 1986, the Government liberalized trade (para. 31 below). allowing
merchants to purchase crops at any price at or above the minimum producer
prices. The principal factor limiting the expansion of agricultural output
has been inadequate incentives, due both to low producer prices and to the
unavailability of  imported consumer  goods in  rural areas.   At the  same
time, marketing in rural areas was improved by the transfer to the private
sector of retail outlets of the parastatal trading firms which has resulted
in a greater  availability of goods.   The Government's aim  is to  improve
incentives further through higher producer prices and more competitive
marketing,  while  simultaneously  strengthening  agricultural   investment
planning.
29.       Crop pricing.  Under the trading  system reforms of August  1986,
it is expected that farmers will actually sell most of their 1987 crops to
private merchants at  prices well above  the Government-set minimum.   How-
ever, the public trading firms will be prepared to purchase at the minimum
price in case the still weak private trading sector is unable to mobilize
sufficient capital to purchase the farmers' crops. After the November 1986
increase, minimum prices  as a  percent of  import parity  at the  official
exchange rate range from about 30Z for  cashews to over 100Z for rice.   In
order to increase incentives for cashew farmers. the Government will, in
May 1987, increase the mninimum producer price for cashews (the only crop
still being harvested at that time of year) from PG 50 per kilo to PG 125
per kilo to reflect the impact of the devaluation. The minimmm price for
all crops will be raised by December 1, 1987, before the next harvest, to
reflect the changes in the exchange rate and in international prices.   The
minimum producer prices will also take into consideration the costs of
production, particularly for rice. The Government is concerned that the
world market price for rice may be artificially depressed due to unfair
trading practices and that a minimum producer price set too low in line
with world market prices could lead to production decisions which would
have a serious impact on the country's policy of promoting food security.
Marketing
30.       Two large state trading enterprises,  Armazens do Povo and  SOCO-
MIN, at one time had a monopoly on the export and import of key items and
also operated an extensive network of retail stores. The private sector
often operated in the twilight of legality because imports were restricted,
official prices were unrealistic in relation to supply and demand, and
intermediation margins were set by Government for all trade at a fraction
of the actual costs of handling and transportation.



- 10 -
31.       Recognizing  that  the  state  trading  system  was  inefficient,
Government launched a marketing reform in late 1984. As a first step, the
two state trading enterprises were reorganized and their functions stream-
lined. In particular their retail stores were privatized. More recently,
in the context of the RIC supplement, Government agreed to abolish inter-
mediation margins on all luxury goods, intermediate raw materials and other
inputs except for veterinary medicines, seeds and other essentials for
which intermediation margins were increased. Finally, in August 1986, the
Government liberalized trade. As a result, merchants are free to buy crops
at any price at or above the minimum producer prices. In addition, all
import and export trading activities can now be carried out by the private
sector, with the exception of rice, petroleum, pesticides, and certain
equipment goods. Also, licensing procedures of private traders have been
considerably simplified.
D.   Public Support to the ARricultural Sector
Agricultural Services
32.       The Ministry  of  Rural  Development  and  Fisheries  (MDRP)  was
reorganized in  1984 (organization  chart in Annex III).   MDRP lacks  the
manpower and financial resources required to identify long-term development
strategies, establish meaningful sectoral priorities, define a coherent
investment program, and-prepare  and assess projects.   The layer of  local
staff sufficiently trained and experienced is very thin; although many
staff are being trained abroad, the overseas environment is often quite
different from the country's, and training is seldom correlated with an
overall program based on predetermined national needs. Furthermore, there
is no system to assign scarce qualified national personnel to appropriate
posts in the Ministry. There is a significant number of foreign personnel
working on various agricultural projects in Guinea-Bissau. but the Ministry
lacks the capacity of assessing the needs for this technical assistance and
for managing it. Improving this capacity at the central level is a major
objective of the  proposed project.   The Ministry  has a  total budget  of
US$17.8 million (1985) of which US$9.0 million represent capital expendi-
tures and US$8.8 million represent recurrent expenditures. The recurrent
budget consists mainly of salaries sid other personnel charges, while the
operating budget is a mere US$200,000.   For the Ministry to operate  effi-
ciently the operating budget will need to be substantially increased (para.
76).
33.       Information and data collection  systems are virtually  non-exis-
tent, support to technical departments and individual projects is weak, and
statistical data needed for planning are limited. Data on the recent per-
formance of agricultural production derive from a 1976 aerial survey,
Government estimates based on weather conditions, and the volume of produce
marketed by the state marketing agencies. The lack of sufficient or reli-
able data greatly affects MDRP's strategic and planning capacity.



- 11 -
34.       At project level, operations often overlap and fail to capitalize
on past experience to exploit sectoral linkages. Foreign donors are free
to promote their own development approach, but foreign experts do not
always have the necessary expertise or language proficiency; furthermore,
since not enough local people have been trained to manage projects, Govern-
ment continues to  rely on  expatriate staff for  project execution.   This
proliferation of isolated actions not only affects the absorption capacity
of the departments involved in project implementation, but also leads to
the neglect of key development actions in various subsectors.
Public Investment
35.       Public investment averaged  40Z of GDP in  1981-1985, an unduly
high proportion for a country with such limited public sector management
capabilities and financial resources. The impact of this investment on GDP
was disappointingly small over the period:   GDP grew at an average  annual
rate of 1.2Z.  This poor performance is reflected in very high  incremental
capital-output ratios (about eight). Moreover, the public sector has not
been an efficient user of the country's scarce foreign exchange resources.
Import costs associated with public investment appear to have accounted for
most of the country's total import bill. Thus. the large and inefficient
public investment program contributed greatly to the growing fiscal and
balance of payment deficits.
36.       In addition, sectoral allocation  and, more importantly,  project
composition have been inappropriate. The proportion of investment (25Z)
for the country's main productive sector -- agriculture, including forestry
and fisheries -- is low in relation to the sector's contribution to GDP.
Major investment projects have absorbed an unduly large share of the
already small sectora' allocation and some of them proved entirely unsuit-
able for the country's needs and could not be successfully implemented. In
particular, the US$28.0 million Cumere agro-industrial complex was designed
for too large a capacity with too complex a technology to be used economi-
cally.
37.       The Bank recently  reviewed the  Government's investment program
and recommended reductions in real terms by 1OZ in 1986 and 15? each year
in 1987 and 1988. To achieve this, investment projects will be classified
by priority, based on cost-benefit analyses, and the project evaluation and
macroeconomic coordination process will be strengthened.
E.   Potential for Increased Production
38.       Guinea-Bissau's agricultural potential  is far  from being  fully
realized. Suitable land is not a constraint to increasing production, and
the traditional crop and livestock production system can sustain product-
ivity and production increases without using input-intensive technologies.
For rice, other cereals, tubers and pulses, the technical and economic
input ceilings used to boost  yields are  far from  being reached.   Major
increases could result from the widespread introduction of improved farming
techniques,  including  intensive   and  rational  land   use  through   an



- 12 -
integration of crop and animal production and the expansion of animal
traction. Once adequate incentives to increase output are in place,
productivity could be quickly increased by using improved seeds and
implementing fertilizer recommendations, both of which are now available.
39.       The country has considerable potential for increasing its produc-
tion of export crops without new technologies or inputs. Natural palm-
groves have a minimum production potential of over 20,000 tons/year. far in
excess of the 6.000-7,000 tons of palm kernels officially exported annual-
ly. The increased amounts of recently marketed cashewnuts and palm kernels
highlight the potential for these crops.
40.       Potential for  the  further development  of  naturally  irrigated
areas (inland-valleys) and irrigation exists on about 125,000 ha (of which
a large part is traditionally cultivated by women) and could be exploited
by using small scale and simple water control structures. Benefits from
better maintenance and rehabilitation of current water control structures
will also be significant in the mangrove rice areas.
41.       An average farm  family, if provided with the right  incentives,
could cultivate from 2.5 to 3.0 ha (about 350,000 ha for all farmers),
i.e., an expansion of about 17Z and a proportional production increase.
Basic technological improvements could also bring yield increases of ZOZ to
looz.
42.       The annual extraction potential  of timber species (over  500,000
m3/year) is barely exploited; revenues could be significantly increased by
adequate legislation and management. Total catch of artisanal fisheries is
only a small fraction of the potential. Benefits to the country from
adequate monitoring and control of foreign fleet catches could exceed
US$10.0 million if short and long-term actions ranging from assessment of
potential to an increase in managerial and surveillance capacity were
implemented. Improvement in the traditional livestock production system
could also significantly increase output in the short-term.
43.       In suary, the agricultural and  fisheries resource base is not
an impediment to food self-sufficiency and increased exports in the short
term. The country has relatively large untapped expanses of land and other
resources. and rainfall is adequate for the crops currently grown and
possibly others. Performance in the 1950s and early 1960s confirms the
country's agricultural potential. Furthermore, the available resources and
the organization of production at the local level have shown resilience to
the adverse economic environment in producing for home consumption and the
parallel market.
F. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
44.       Through the proposed project  IDA will address  some  long-term
institutional issues starting with the most basic requirements of the MDRP,
while in parallel it will pursue its policy dialogue with Government
officials and assist them in developing a program of macro and sectoral



- 13 _
adjustment focusing on pricing, marketing and public investment issues
(para. 12). The project will focus on institution building, including the
creation of a capacity in Government for aid coordination, management of
technical assistance and development of personnel policies, in the agricul-
ture sector. In doing so, the project will complement the activities of
other donors in Guinea-Bissau whose institution building efforts often
concentrate on the specific requirements of individual projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
A.  Project Origin and Obiectives
45.       The proposed  project has  its origin  in an  Agriculture  Sector
Review performed by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program in 1983, which
identified the limited capacity of the Ministry of Rural Development and
Fisheries (HDRP) as one of the major constraints to agricultural develop-
ment in Guinea-Bissau.  A more  detailed study was subsequently  undertaken
by independent consultants to identify MDRP's training and technical
assistance needs.  The project  is the direct result  of an intensive  dia-
logue conducted over  the past  two years with MDRP's  management and  its
technical departments. To prepare the project, Government established
local working groups assisted by consultants financed under the Project
Preparation Facility (P326-GUB). Several Bank missions visited Guinea-Bis-
sau in 1985 to follow up on project preparation. The project was appraised
in November 1985 and negotiations were held in Washington from November 3
to November 6, 1986 with a delegation led by the Minister of Plan. Further
processing of the project proceeded in parallel with the proposed SAL, to
ensure full  complementarity  between  the two  operations.   There  is no
separate Staff Appraisal Report. Supplementary data, terms of reference
for principal advisors, key project activities, details of resident experts
and consultants, detailed costs. financing plan and disbursement schedule
are in Annexes IV to VIII.
46.       The project's objective will  be to build  up, over a  three-year
period. MDRP's capacity to: (i) manage its human resources with particular
attention to the management of  technical assistance; (ii) plan  activities
in the agriculture sector and coordinate external aid; and (iii) fulfill
its technical role in the different agriculture subsectors. This enhanced
capacity will ensure monitoring by MDRP of the actions to be implemented in
the sector within the framework of the Government's Structural Adjustment
program (1987-88).
47.       First, MDRP management will  be supported through the  reinforce-
ment of the Ministry's Planning Bureau (GAPLA) with a Human Resources
Division, to manage technical assistance and to make recommendations on
training of local personnel. A Project Unit will be established to super-
vise project activities. Second, MDRP's capacity in sector planning will
be enhanced by strengthening GAPLA in the following functions: {i) collec-
tion, analysis and interpretation of statistics; (ii) strategy and policy
planning; (iii) aid coordination; (iv) project planning; and (v) monitoring



- 14 -
and evaluation. Third, MDRP's support services will be strengthened
through selective improvements of its technical departments. Priority will
be given to departments that service a subsector with a large production
potential and that have received little support to date. Depending on the
specific priority needs of each department, the project will provide
physical facilities -civil works,  equipment, vehicles), technical  assist-
ance, training and  operating funds.   A Special  Fund will  also be  esta-
blished to meet needs, as they arise, for pilot investment operations and
special studies.
B. Detailed Features
1.  ManaRement Support
48.       MDRP's management, planning and  implementation capacity will  be
reinforced under the project at all levels. A qualified Director for GAPLA
has recently been appointed, and Government has agreed that the position
will at all times be filled by a staff with experience and qualifications
acceptable to IDA. A Project Unit will be established to coordinate and
supervise the project activities  as detailed below.   GAPLA will be  rein-
forced to include a Human Resources Division to manage technical assist-
ance, and to make recommendations to the Minister on local personnel
training policies.
49.       Proiect Unit.  The Project Unit will be responsible for  liaison
with IDA, monitoring of financial and technical aspects (procurementldis-
bursement), keeping project accounts and provision of housing for recruited
experts. It will monitor and provide logistical support to the various
activities included in the project. The Unit will consist of an interna-
tionally recruited project manager for the entire project period of three
years. This will be a key project function in view of its importance, the
complexity of its components, and the logistical problems in Guinea-Bissau.
The Project Coordinator will report to the Minister through the Director of
GAPLA. The Unit will also comprise support staff. The establishment of
the Project Unit is a condition of credit effectiveness. While overall
project management will be under the Minister's authority through GAPLA,
the responsibility for the execution of each project component will rest
with  the  MDRP  department  concerned.   Government  will  nominate  local
counterpart staff to be assigned to work with the project experts.
50.       The provision of technical assistance  for the  project will be
contracted out to a single organization. Proposals for this contract will
be invited by Government from at least three consulting firms and special-
ized UN agencies with experience in management. A condition of effective-
ness of the Credit will be that an IDA-approved contract with a consulting
firm will have been signed. The qualifications, experience, terms and
conditions of the experts it employs will be satisfactory to IDA. Detailed
terms of reference for the main specialists are presented in Annex V.
51.       Human Resources  Division.  The  Human Resources  Division to  be
established by September 30, 1987, will be headed by a Guinea-Bissau



- 15 -
national with assistance from an internationally recruited adviser employed
on a full-time basis during the first year and for shorter consultancies
thereafter. All resident experts will have local counterparts satisfactory
to IDA. The Government will submit to IDA for review the work programs of
the experts and training programs for the counterparts within six months of
arrival of  the experts.   The Human  Resources Division  provides a  focal
point for all personnel management functions related to technical assist-
ance in the agriculture sector. It is estimated that at present about 200
foreign experts work in Guinea-Bissau in the agriculture sector, financed
under various  bilateral and multilateral programs.   However, because  of
absence of coordination, some of these experts often have no clear terms of
reference, their mandate to train counterparts is rarely spelled out, their
performance is not monitored. and it is not known if they are utilized
appropriately. The establishment of this Division will be the first step
in improving the situation. The Human Resources Division will also assist
in developing the national staff of the MDRP by: (i) identifying human
resource needs and advising the Minister on the definition and implementa-
tion of training policies; and (ii) assisting GAPLA and the technical
departments in formulating training programs in accordance with these
policies.
2.  Sector Planning
52.       Government took  a first  step in  1980 to  improve the  sectoral
planning and policy formulation process by creating a Planning Bureau
(GAPLA) within MDRP. The next step will be to strengthen it by: (i) making
better use of existing available human resources and starting suitable
training programs to increase capability to appraise projects, formulate
the sector investment program, monitor expenditures and evaluate projects;
and (ii) improving the data base and conducting studies to identify areas
with potential for development and productivity increase and fill the gaps
in the investment program.
53.       Besides the Project Coordinator and-the Human Resources  Special-
ist. the project will provide GAPLA with an Agricultural Planner for 3
years and an Agricultural Economist for 2-112 years. In addition, it will
provide 6 man-months of short-term consultancies and overseas training for
local staff. Finally, it will provide the necessary office space, vehi-
cles, equipment  and  operating  costs.   This  support  will  specifically
benefit each of GAPLA's divisions as follows.
54.       The Statistics Division will initially concentrate on the support
and supervision of a three-year aerial photography and photo interpretation
study to be financed by the Swedish International Development Authority
(SIDA) and the French Aid Cooperation (FAC) and beginning the first quarter
of calendar year 1987 aimed at providing the essential data base on
agricultural production and land use needed for future agricultural
planning. In order to build a local capacity in photo-interpretation, this
project will ensure that local staff will be trained on site, and overseas
training (six months) will be provided to a local statistician and
photo-interpreter. The existing expatriate statistician financed by SIDA



- 16 -
will be assisted by the project's Agricultural Economist and consultants in
organizing the Division, defining a work plan for the division and
redeveloping a training program for local staff. The work plan for the
Division and the staff training program will be submitted to IDA for its
review and comments no later than December 31, 1987.
55.       The Planning Division will expand  its capacity for strategy  and
policy planning and for aid coordination with support from the project's
Agricultural Planner. The Division will liaise closely with the Ministry
of Planning in preparing a development plan for the sector, and with the
technical departments of MDRP in developing subsector strategies. It will
also have a key role in formulating, reviewing and monitoring Government
policies in pricing, marketing, and investment selection. The Division,
which will be assisted by the project's Agricultural Economist and, as the
need arises by consultants, will be responsible for identifying and prepar-
ing agricultural projects to be included in the investment program, for
economic and financial analyses, and for annual reviews of the Government's
investment program in agriculture. It will prepare by December 31 of each
year, summary analyses of all rural sector projects under execution and
proposed to commence execution the following year, as an input into annual
investment reviews.
56.       The Division will develop  technical procedures for the Ministry
and prepare manuals and guidelines to assist the Ministry's staff in  their
work. It will also assist the Human Resources Division in formulating
detailed staff training programs, in consultation with the Ministry's
technical departments, and with the assistance of the experts included in
the project.
57.       The Monitoring Division will be supported by consultants or by an
agroeconomist financed by FAC with expertise in monitoring and evaluation.
The Division will establish simple management information procedures for
monitoring: (i) the impact of the Structural Adjustment Program on agricul-
tural production, structures, and marketing; and (ii) other rural develop-
ment projects, thereby strengthening GAPLA's ability to supervise  on-going
projects.  Through this project, local staff will receive overseas training
and, upon their return, on-site training by visiting experts.
3.   MDRP Technical Departments and Fisheries Secretariat
58.       Irrigation.  The Government is making major efforts to  increase
production and productivity of mangrove rice and expects to exploit a
relatively large potential for fresh water rice cultivation -in inland-val-
ley swamps.   The overall  goal of  these efforts  is to  develop areas  to
accommodate those farmers who are abandoning mangrove rice cultivation in
the northwestern part of the country due to reduced rainfall and a shorter
rainy season. As a first step toward full development, the Government will
strengthen the Irrigation Department (DHSA) and assess the potential and
economic feasibility of these areas. In parallel, the Government will
continue to implement pilot operations started under financing from various
sources including USAID, the Kuwait Fund, the African Development Bank and



- 17 -
IFAD. Subsequently, development might be expanded to larger areas using
more permanent water control structures.
59.       The project will  provide DHSA with a Rural  Engineer for  2-1J2
years and with six months of consultants, and will fund vehicles, equipment
and operating costs to  enable them to carry  out their work program.   The
project will assist the Department in strengthening its monitoring and
advisory functions for on-going irrigation, including, when necessary, the
reformulation of on-going projects. and the preparation of proposals to
direct or re-direct external aid in the irrigation subsector. The project
will  also  coordinate  the   financing  and  development  of   alternative
rice-growing areas that have received much less external assistance so far.
In particular. some 60.000 ha of inland-valley swamps have been identified
as potentially suitable for intensive rice cultivation; the feasibility of
such development has been demonstrated through a pilot project in the
Contuboel area financed by USAID.
60.       Initially, the DESA  will: (i)  assess and  review the  available
data on irrigation potential and drainage requirements and arrange for
additional studies to identify suitable areas for development; (ii) prepare
a catalogue of the most suitable sites to develop, and establish the type
of development required; (iii) prepare terms of reference for feasibility
studies on the proposed developments; and (iv) after completion of these
feasibility studies, prepare detailed proposals to be submitted to Govern-
ment and financing agencies.   To prepare staff  for development work,  the
resident expert and consultants will train them on the job and, before
December 31, 1987, prepare a program, to be financed under the project, for
staff to receive in-service and overseas training.
61.       Forestry.  The major objective in  the  forestry sector  is  to
achieve a more rational exploitation of the country's valuable timber
resources while reducing the loss of forest areas as a result of fires and
indiscriminate felling. To this effect, the Government will give priority
to the preparation of a National Forestry Development Plan, and tco the
strengthening of the Forestry Service capacity to manage forest resources
and monitor extraction.
62.       The project will  provide the  Forestry Service with a  Forestry
Adviser for  2-1/2 years.   In  addition, it will  provide two  months  of
consultancies and the office space, vehicles, equipment and operating costs
needed by the Service to carry out its mandate. A major role of the
Forestry Adviser will be to assist the Service in coordinating the financ-
ing and  implementation  of on-going  and  future forestry  projects.   The
project will coordinate and complement assistance from other sources,
including bNDPIFAO for forestry legislation and planning, the European
Development Fund (FED) for a forestry resource inventory, EEC for nurser-
ies, and SIDA for forestry staff training. Project support will be direc-
ted particularly toward: (i) developing a detailed program of action for
implementating the National Forestry Development Plan; (ii) strengthening,
through training, the Service's ability to enforce the new forestry plan;
and (iii) establishing a small applied research center in forestry.



- 18 -
63.       Item (i) above  is well under way and will  be completed by  the
Forestry Adviser shortly after his arrival. As mentioned above, UNDP/FAO
are assisting the Government in revising the forestry legislation, t.he
enactment of which is a prerequisite for the success of this component.   A
Forestry Development  Plan will  be submitted  to IDA  before December  31,
1987.  Item  (ii) is  of critical  importance because  of the  shortage  of
well-trained forestry  personnel  in  Guinea-Bissau.   In  particular,  the
Forestry Adviser will develop before December 31, 1987 a detailed training
program for forestry personnel, covering both overseas and local training.
64.       The project will support item  (iii), aimed at the selection  and
distribution of fast-growing species best adapted to Guinea-Bissau's
conditions. Research will be carried out to assess the best species for
degraded areas, study their integration in an agro-forestry system and test
their susceptibility to fire damage.   The project will assist in  dissemi-
nating results. Project support will include office space, equipment and
research plots. Research will be supenrised by the Director of the Fores-
try Service and the Forestry Adviser and executed with assistance from
other, already  available sources.   The Service  will prepare  a. detailed
research program and submit it to IDA for review before December 31, 1987.
65.       Fisheries.  The  objective  will  be  to  better  understand  the
resource status and especially the harvest potential and current levels of
exploitation, to increase the Government's capacity to manage fishery
resources in the 200 mile Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), and to develop the
control and surveillance capacity of the State Secretariat of Fisheries.
The project will provide technical assistance, local counterpart training,
and specialized equipment to establish and operate a Data Processing and
Fisheries Management Center in the Secretariat to ensure effective data
collecti3n, surveillance and management of foreign-licensed fisheries in
Guinea-Bissau's EEZ.  Under the Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1517GUB),
the Fisheries Secretariat has trained about 30 observers who, stationed on
foreign fishing vessels, will produce information on the status of fish
stocks exploited by foreign, deep-water fleets, and their harvest levels.
66.       The Center will  be  established and  initially  operated  by  a
technical assistance team consisting of a Fisheries Specialist for 2 years.
a Statistician and an Economist for 1-1/2 years each, and consultants.   In
October 1986, local counterparts started 18 months of training (financed
under the PPF) in data processing, statistics, computer science and econo-
mics. After this overseas training, they will work closely with the
resident experts in managing the Center for about 9 months. During this
period of joint operation, local staff will gradually take over the respon-
sibilities of the technical assistance staff, according to a detailed
handover program to be prepared.
67.       Animal Production.   Unlike its  neighbors, Guinea-Bissau  has  a
relatively large herd, but productivity is low and support to the sector is
negligible. To date, development actions have concentrated on a small
vaccination program and health extension services without proper logistical
support. The short-term goal will be to assess the subsector's potential,



- 19 -
carry out studies on diseases and their impact on production, and design a
development strategy for the subsector.
68.       The project will  provide two visiting  experts to  the Animal
Production Department for 6 man-months each over 3 years in livestock
production and veterinary science. These experts will prepare terms of
reference for two priority studies (animal production systems and animal
health) to be submitted to financing agencies. The Department has already
prepared detailed timetables for both studies. The experts will be respon-
sible for detailing and supervising the work to be done by local staff.
69.       Both studies will be  carried out over a  3-year period and will
provide detailed information on: (i) types of farmers and their herds, herd
composition, demographic structure, reproduction and production parameters.
and nutritional constraints; (ii) imports, marketing. actual offtake, and
constraints to increased offtake. prices, seasonal movements, inputs and
outputs (especially labor and use of veterinary drugs), ownership patterns,
land tenure systems, participation in cash economy, and use and constraints
of animal traction; and (iii) seasonal incidence of the most important
diseases in economic terms, current losses and proposed treatment regimes.
The results of these studies should provide data for identifying the
components of each major livestock production system, its constraints and
solutions to  increase productivity  within the  traditional system.   They
will be used to prepare specific investment proposals, for the financing of
which further international assistance will be sought.
70.       Fruit Production.   The  Government's  objective  is  to  satisfy
internal consumption and promote exports to neighboring countries. However,
there is no organized production of high quality planting material. the
market potential is unknown, and comparative advantage in producing for
external markets  is uncertain.   The first  step will be to  carry out  a
marketing study and a study to identify suitable planting material; subject
to the recommendation of these studies, the next step will be to prepare
projects to increase production for local markets and eventually for
export.
71.       The project will provide  a visiting  expert in  tropical  fruit
production for 4 months, located in GAPLA, to: (i) assist MDRP in super-
vising the above studies (their terms of reference were prepared under the
PPF), (ii) prepare terms of reference for feasibility studies of specific
investment proposals, (iii) devise training programs, and (d) advise MDRP
in coordinating on-going or planned fruit production activities and in
seeking further international assistance to finance such activities.
Project support will complement an on-going SIDA project in the northwest,
a proposed FAO project for fruit production/marketing, OXFAM activities in
the south, and a proposed FAC intervention in studying fruit production and
potential in the country.



- 20 -
Special Fund
72.       During project implementation. it is expected that specific needs
vill arise to carry out special studies or implement small-scale pilot
projects. To finance such needs, a Special Fund of US$0.7 million vill be
established under the credit. Proposals for the use of this Fund vill be
developed by the technical services concerned and GAPLA and submitted to
IDA for its prior review and approval.
HousinR
73.       In view  of  the shortage  of  adequate housing  in  Bissau,  the
project will finance the construction and financing of four duplex houses
for experts to be employed under the project. The Borrower will furnish to
IDA for its prior approval the designs for such houses.
C.   Proiect Costs and FinancinR
74.       Project costs are estimated at US$7.0 million equivalent, exclud-
ing import taxes and duties which Government has indicated will be waived.
Costs include physical contingencies of lOZ on civil works, vehicles.
equipment and operating costs and 5Z on technical assistance and training.
Price contingencies have been incorporated according to Bank guidelines at
6.8Z in 2987-88, 7.0Z in 1989, 7.11 in 1990, and 4.0Z in 1991 on all costs.
All costs have been calculated in U.S. dollars on the basis of the exchange
rate at appraisal, and it has been assumed that the progressive devaluation
of the Guinea-Bissau currency will compensate for the difference between
the increase in local costs and international inflation. Total contingen-
cies amount to 23Z of baseline costs or 19Z of total project costs.
75.       Total external financing will amount  to US$6.2 million and  will
cover 88  of total  project costs, i.e., 10O  of the foreign costs.   This
will include a proposed IDA credit of SDR 3.2 million (US$3.7 million
equivalent), which will finance 602 of the costs of technical assistance,
training and consultants, and 80Z of the foreign exchange component of
civil works, equipment, vehicles and operating costs. The Netherlands will
provide 6.0 million Guilders (US$2.5 million equivalent) to cover 40Z of
the total cost of technical assistance, 20Z of other foreign exchange costs
and 1OOZ of the Special Fund. Government will contribute US$0.8 million
equivalent or 11Z of total project costs, in the form of incremental
salaries for local staff and local costs. A condition of credit effective-
ness will be that financing by the Netherlands will have become effective.
76.       The  annual  incremental  operating  costs  (excluding  personnel
expenses) due to the project will amount to about US$180,000 or a doubling
of the  current operating  budget of  the MDRP.  The prevailing  operating
budget is very small as operating costs for field activities are mainly
financed under projects. Assurances have been obtained from Government
that the necessary budgetary increases will be made. GAPLA, as part of its
monitoring  activities,  will   carry  out  a   review  of  the   financial



- 21 -
implications of on-going projects, including their future impact on MDRP's
budget when external financing ceases to be available.
D.   Procurement and Disbursements
77.       Goverment vill select a consulting firm to supply the  technical
assistance personnel in accordance with Bank guidelines. All terms of
reference, qualifications and contracts will be submitted to IDA for
approval. Construction of housing for experts ($USO.2 million) and of
offices and  infrastructure  for  the Planning,  Irrigation  and   Forestry
Departments (US$0.3 million) will follow procedures acceptable to IDA, with
local construction firms being invited to tender. To the extent applica-
ble, vehicles, equipment and furniture will be procured through Interna-
tional Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Procurement arrangements are given below.
78.       Proceeds of the IDA credit and the Dutch Grant will be  disbursed
against technical assistance, training and consultants (lOOZ of total
expenditure), civil works and construction materials, equipment and vehi-
cles (10OX of foreign expenditures and 75Z of local expenditures) and
operating costs (25Z of total expenditures). Government will make specific
provisions in its annual budgets for funds sufficient to support local
project staff and other local costs. Disbursements are projected to extend
over a five-year period (Annex IX). two-and-one-half years less than the
average disbursement period in similar projects in West Africa. A shorter
period is expected since all technical assistance under the project will be
provided through one consulting firm.
79.       A foreign currency Special Account will be opened at a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA to cover IDA reimbursable
expenditures under the project and will be managed by the Project Unit.
This Special Account will be credited by IDA for US$100,000 at credit
effectiveness and will be replenished by IDA upon presentation of support-
ing documentation.   All  expenditures  will  be  fully  documented  except
expenditures under contracts or purchase orders of less than US$20,000
which will be against statements of expenditures certified by the project
manager; supporting documentation will be retained by Government and made
available for review by IDA supervision missions.
E.  Accounts. Audit and Reporting
80.       The Project  Unit will  establish and maintain consolidated  ac-
counts for all project expenditures. These accounts and supporting records
will be audited annually by auditors acceptable to IDA, and audited reports
will be submitted to IDA and the cofinancier not later than six months
after the end of each calendar year. The Special Account and Statements of
Expenditures will be  the subject  of a separate  auditor statement.   Each
Service supported under the project will produce quarterly progress reports
on the physical and financial performance of the project and its institu-
tional impact on MDRP. These reports will be consolidated in a single
report by the Project Unit for submission to IDA.



- 22 -
AMOUNTS AND MTODS OF RO         E 
(USS million)
Items                               ICB          LCB     Other     Total Cost
Civil Works                        -           0.6       -          0.6
(0.5)                (0.3)
Vehicles, Equipment               0.4           -       0.6 bJ      1.0
(0.3)                (0.3)        (0.6)
Technical Assistance               -           _        2.7 cl      2.7
(1.8)       (1.8)
Training, Studies and
Consultants                      _           -        1.0 cI      1.0
(0.6)       (0.6)
Local Staff                        -           _        0.3         0.3
Travel and Operating Costs         -            -       0.5 dl      0.5
(0.2)       (0.2)
Special Fund                       -          0.4       0.3         0.7
Project Preparation Facility       -            -       0.2         0.2
(0.2)       (0.2)
Total Cost                     0.4         1.0       5.6         7.0
Total IDA Financed            (O.3)       .0.3)    (3.1)        (3.7)
a/  Amounts in parentheses indicate IDA disbursenents.
bf   Contracts for vehicles. equipment, and furmiture below US$100,000 will
be awarded through Prudent International Shopping following Bank
guidelines.
cl   Technical assistance, training, studies and consultants will be
procured following Bank Guidelines.
dl   Purchase of fuel and lubricants will be UGdr, local procedures accept-
able to IDA.



- 23 -
F. Benefits and Risks
81.       The project will be a first step in the process of  strengthening
HDRP. By focusing on the key constraints of the Ministry, the project will
strengthen its managerial and technical capability so that it can support
the agriculture sector by giving policy direction, providing technical
services, and managing the investment program. A particular benefit will
be the creation of a capacity to manage technical assistance for the sector
as a whole, to coordinate the funding of development projects by external
agencies, and to attract additional external financial resources. At the
same time, staff expertise will be strengthened in agriculture sector
planning and in technical services, particularly irrigation, forestry, and
fisheries and animal production.
82.       Specific results expected from the project will include a greatly
improved statistical base as a result of the supervision of the photo-in-
terpretation study, together with the creation of one new division and
strengthening of three presently operating divisions in GAPLA, capable of
handling all key agriculture sector planning functions. In forestry, the
project will help establish appropriate legislation and create enforcement
capability. A Fisheries Management Center to be created under the project
will provide Govermnent with a capacity to monitor foreign fishing activi-
ties and save a significant portion of the foreign exchange losses each
year due to und6rreporting by foreign vessels. The two studies in animal
production will provide a firmer basis for Government livestock development
program. The project will also help diversify the irrigation development
program into inland-valley swamps, develop a specific investment program in
this area, and start its implementation.
83.       Three main risks are associated with the project.  First,  delays
might occur in recruiting and retaining qualified technical assistance
personnel. This risk is lessened by the requirement that Government select
a consulting firm able to provide the needed logistical and back-up sup-
port. Second, there might be a shortage in counterpart staff of adequate
caliber, and project's staff development and training objectives might not
be fully achieved. This risk is lessened by the requirement that all
technical assistance staff assure the systematic training of local staff
working with them, that detailed training programs be established for each
subcomponent, and that the implementation of these programs be monitored
closely by project management and IDA. Third, Government might be slow to
proceed with reforms in macroeconomic policies, thus reducing the impact of
projects w-hich will  be generated by a  strengthened MDRP.   This risk  is
mitigated by Government's demonstrated commitment to reforms evidenced by a
comprehensive list of measures already taken under the structural adjust-
ment program.



- 24 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
84.       I m  satisfied that  the proposed  credit vill  comply with  the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recomiend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, DC
April 30, 1987
Attachments



- 25 -
Annex I
T-inle 1. Ouin.e-6l.e   Cance-l 0.veramnt egenUen,,                              r8e'u1 o   5
(in m1 Ioan of peae)
Pra io.     Prsj eaced
1968    19o"      1Wm    l       166        196       1660     1"0      1961
(in millime. o somea)
Tose[  nue and mrants                      252      8m        416    1279    3a6       36        41612    4O    4603
daetery re2 l                                     2100    29        3       110      1475    183        1640    2112
Iesses tam                              17       270      42       an         3      an       an        on      sOW
Tame en international trede             4S       66       12       147    5m        672       7621     7773     6713
Team  - amperts                        89        a       43      101    206        144      1106        0        0
Temee an impors                       351      492       991     V       266      4611      6044     7037     790
Imort. dutic                        244      31      a6        86      166      2336    269        356      423
Caneeetion tames                     1S       174     331      377      129     2294      3144     3483     3709
Port chargo                            49        64      16      L6       b4        cm       671      736      776
Cenecietien tam - doesetic  code         108      L4       133     131      350      420       46       813      s8
oher ta  r                              120      1"        1       260      68       733   s06  e 1T             677
Non tee                                 174      a2        9       162    303       4780      S846              7067
Interalt pyme_nt. gnd Prf its           2      197      446      43         1         1        1        1        1
Fee                                    1Oo     386      407      978    3127      3864      4548     5214     86
Fishing I;c. nd oil royeltie         64      20       362  0     S    31        3864      4845    8214      3ns
Other                                44       126      45       67        0         0        0        0        0
Other                                  63      242       14s      166     775       618     1000    106       1173
t l-m.ifid receipts                      20       35        0        14       0         0        0        0        0
Creats                                   1O       315      5473      6617   25370    24840    26073    28440   30710
Foed sWd/O  support                      ...    s6        667     243      7021     80        8s6      S30      6
Project mid                              -..    247      4876     647    1546    1920    2011S   22120   24070
Total .pendi tare                          4781     8939    1468 6    90657   43614    47ao    49732   83254    8743
C'rren epadtiara                         2311     3602     581        ms    15864    17460    1917    20252    22077
yea_ end sa erics                       16      2083     3006      4OU    S5         5476    s83       514S     5404
Other goo" end earwicee                 670      1019     LS8     2166    3613      4441      4616    8107      5
Trueoere                                322      323       474      910     111     1310     1709     16O      1817
ntareet on public det                    52      207   S61          66     560      6210      7227     a266      794
Cepitel espenditura                      2440     6261      0278    11032   21120   303        3084     33022   313
Net lendintgt                                 0        0      log      350        0        0         0        0        0
Currant eccount deficit                   -12      -1502    -263     -4       -436     -3985   -3649    -312    -3737
Owereli dfr;cit (coaiteent bh;s)          -2228    -4835   -7466    -653l    -7344   -4505    -619   -614    -4405
Ohneg is empedi;tr rel ated errears
inecreme .)                               21      L10      4"4      483   -4130         0         a        0        0
Owrll deficit (ctsh hisi)                 -2207    -4805    -7032    -625   -11474    -S05    -4119l  -6414   -6OS
Fixnecing                                  2207     4850     7032     623     11474-   0505      6119      6414    640
Netioeal bunk                            1260      13=3     1691     162    -S872   -62        _-44    -63        9274
Foreign                                   762    2646      5042    367       105     10557    lam02    9322    11257
Drei ege                                944     3376    a3        5340   136      21735    22350    22610    24734
SOP lose                            ...      ...      ...     2200   1O0N    11040    11920    12640    13320
Projects                            .        ..       ...     31369    SaO    10668    10430    10270    11484
Lwartizetion                           -162      -433    -304    -1461    -6024   -11176   -11544   -136SS    -L3197
Current prrincpel                 -162     -433      -304     -799    -7463    -0106    -6313    -96    -13197
Reduction principal erreere       --        -        --       462      -531    -2070    -223S    -3950        0
Other                                      sS      308      999      727        0         0        0        0        0
Financing gap                                     _                          6460     7176      5611     5925     6142
Possible debt mle!f                      _       --       __        _       6490     7176      5611     325      6142
an aorrant Li igationa                --      --       --        --       5310     7176     511    825        6142
principeil- l   -                                            -       5S10 7176          3111     5925     6142
interest                                                    -0                             0        0        0
ON  lerreer                           --       -        -                 16          0        0        0        0
principal                        --        --       --       --          0        0        0        0        0
interest                         --       --       --                 1 1160      0        0        0        0
KEOAnMX  IT4S.
Ov-rll deficit before  rants            -3723    -7763   -12969   -15408   -32714   -34345   -34194   -36834   -3611S
ChOng-m in arreare an principal
(increasee)                       90      317      369      756    -531    -2070    -2235    -3950          0
SourCee: Ministry o1 Finance; Not;enl leek of Cue-leu; end satff ast;etee.
(l] Ia 1666 includes ue of e Ion for the  ea htel elreedy drawn in 1968.
med net lending to Publ ic nterprr;i(einly AP.SOC2lIN)in form of unaeid
counterpart fund  for food eid end SP Grants Wn  leae



- 26 -
Annex I
rABLE 2                      Page 2 of 5
GUI?IEA-BISSAU: NJational  rncome  Accounts
i in GDP Million at 1986 Constant Prices )
Actual       Est.              Projicti ons
1994     1985      1986      1987      IY,       1999      1990     1991
Consumption                      35910    39404       79026    37127    37972    38745    39624    40454
Frivate                       '27727    .0023    Z975    27407    28739    2972    30951    31691
Public                          3183    a131        9151      ?720      9234      1772     977m      8772
Investsent                        ?939    11071    10036        9936      1991      9099      7595     7156
Fri.ate                          595       695       b50       '02       758       834       917     1009
Public                          9344    10386    10186        9134      0133      7255      6677     6147
Total Dooostic demand            45949    49475    49662    46963    46962    46834    47219    4it10
Goods & Services Balance        -12711   -14091   -14398   -10741    -9628    -9529    -7448    -i3lb
Exports of 6GUFS                 4499     3409      3262      5103      5429      5778      6172     a596
Inverts of 6NFS              -17200   -18300   -17IT60   -15844   -15057   -14307   -13620   -1'912
6DP at  lartet Prices             3130    34584    34264    36222    37;24    39304    39770    41293
enroraudus Item:
Aqriculture                     15631    1;576    7042i      21441    22513    23639        4584    25569
Industry                       .31i       3696      3067       0998     '1:2      ;180     L223       308
Earvices                       1C95    10603    i0100         ?95?      -319      9682    Iddo9      0472
Indirect Taxes -ess              -1 I         j      i a7     1725      17;7   1I24         1994     1966
Subsimles
CE?P at Factor Cast            --'544      .55    ;35;J7   34497    :5461    3a640    3Z7m           3?3'2-
zource: liRD orojectitns



-27-                                       Annex I.
Page 5 of 
Table 3. Ouiblai_s: blame of Paymente
(a  l Il  le" of U.S. dol larm)
196     1964    1936     lo6     196?    1963    1969    1996    1991
prol.e;et   proj.   proj.   proj.   proj.   proj.
A. Current account                   -29.    -36.2    -L.4    -29.4   -23.4   -23.7   -26.4   -16.1   -18.1
Trade balance                -43.8   -42.7   -47.9   -43.9   -4.t    -34.7   -31.7   -30.4   -27.4
Export, f.o.b.              3.6    17.4    11.6       9.6    14.2    13.3    21.5    24.6    27.3
Imports: f.o.b.           -3.4   -46.1       C5    -63.4   -54.6   -65.C   -55.2   -66.0   -56.2
Service  (net)               -11.3   -17.9   -19.6   -22.6   -26.1   -24.6   -22.7   -22.7   -28.7
Intereet due                 -3.1    -4.1    -2.2    -6.5   -16.8   -19.5   -11.6   -11.9   -17.3
III chargee               -I.2    -f.2    -L.a    -3.2    -J.2    -4.1        4.1    -0.1    -0.1
11. L.tOrm debt nd  3     -2.9    -3.9    -1.9    -4.5    -7.7    -6.9    -6.6    -4.4    -8.4
M.& L.term debt -           -        -       -       6.6    -1.6    -3.2    -4.7    -6.1    -7.6
Interat Fin. Cap            -        -       -       6.      -lI.    -J.3     -L.2    -0.2    -3.2
Other Intereet              -        -       -      -1.3    -1.6    -1.3    -1.6 -  -1.0    -1.0
Freight and Insuraneo       .4.6    -5.9    -6.4    -6.5    -6.1    4.2          -6.1    -6.3    -6.3
Other invieiblee             -2.2    -7.9   -11.6    -9.6    -3.2    -7.4    -5.6    -4.5    -3.0
Tranesfer  (net)              32 .1    24.4    27.1    42.6    42.6    35.6    34.6    36.6    36.0
Official grant.             43.0    29.3   3t.6    43.5    43.6    36.6    35.0    36.0    37.0
Food    PW eupport      ...      ...     6.1    11.9    11.9        3.6      8.6     8.0      8.0
Project aid             ...      ...    25.4    31.6    31.1    283.       27.6    28.6    29.6
Privet. treanfers          -10.9    -4.9    -8.4    -1.5    -1.6    -1.6    -1.0    -1.0    -1.6
3. Capital acount                     17.1    37.6    39.9    32.8    17.0    16.6    15.9    16.9    16.0
Medium- and long-trm
Di-buree_ento              22.6    43.1    43.1    37.3    32.6    31.5    36.0    29.6    29.3
Refin.af Arr rs          ...      ...     ...    19.4       6.6     6.6      e.o      6.6      6.o
l P-eupport              ...      ...      ...     2.6    17.6    16.3    16.0    16.6    16.0
Proj                     ...      ...      ...    15.3    15.6    15.5    14.0    13.0    13.8
Amortization                                         -4.5   -15.6   -15.9   -14.1   -13.1   -19.8
Debt end 36             -5.5    -5.3    -3.2    -4.5   -15.6   -15.9   -14.1   -13.1   -18.3
New debt                  -        -       -       6.0      6.6     6.6       6.0     6.6    -1.5
C. Err.& O_.and Priv.Capt             -5.4   -15.6   -12.3    .4.6       2.0      1.6      1.0      1.0     1.0
D. Overall balance (AsSet            -17.3   -15.6   -13.3       2.6    -4.3    -7.2    -3.5    -1.2    -7.1
E. Financing                          17.3    15.3    18.3    -2.6       4.3      7.2      3.5      1.2     7.1
Changes In NFA                1l.1      7.3     5.7    -4.3      -.3    -1.3    -2.4    -1.0         6.0
Use of Fund credit (net)    -6.4      1.6    -6.9    -1.1    -6.3    -1.1    -6.9         0.0      0.0
Drawingeexcl.SAF            6.6      1.6     *.o      o.o      o.o     e.e      e.o      *.0      0.0
Repurchae                  -.44      6.6    .4.9    -1.1    -4.3    -1.1    .4.9         0.6      0.0
Other WA                    13.5      6.2     6.6    -3.2       6.3    -4.2    -1.6    -1.0        0.6
Arrears (decreae -)            4.2       .      7.6      1.7    -3.2    -3.0    -3.0    -6.0  0.6
Medium- and long-ter    3.6      7.6     6.8      4.1    -3.2       ...              ...      ...
Short-term              6.6      1.6     6.8    -2.4       6.6      ...
SAF drawing.                    -       -        -        -       1.8     1.2      1.2      6.6      6.6
Debt Relief Needed to close     -       -        -        -      11.0    16.3      7.7      7.2      7.1
Cap
Memorandum ite*:
Current account without grunts       -72.6   -65.5   -76.9   -72.9   -6.4   -59.7   -56.4   -54.1   -55.1
Exports good. S non-factor erviees   43.6    29.3    36.5    17.7    22.9    28.2    31.7    36.6    39.6
Source: National Bonk of Cuinea-Bissmu, 1IF, and Bank ataff estimtee



-28-
Annex I
TAA a.: CXDVA4UIM  -  IC N        SIOXCTDAT
N..s 4 of S
Np"Smblm:            0.V          (Coid-116.th..med)
UW per Capit:       11.0          0(U. 91)
A_n                                                Amnum  gth robe Ua    ,           pe_ . 1136
(ml II lm 1  __
Indlestr                  current Prices)                      Achuel                   Ie.bs                  ProjIeted
l192    1II    1o4   1965        1936   1I67    1S       1im      lO      199
IATONL ACUT
Qe  ommatic Product        84234.0                      4.2    -3.4      5.5      4.8    -1.0      6.7     2.0      2.9     3.6      3.6
A.rltar.          e      21420.0                      4.2    -5.0      2.4      J.0      6.0     5.0     5.0      5.0      4.0     4.0
ludmeitry                 3067.0                      3.0    -L.4    -0.5    -0.4    -3.0        1.0     1.0      1.0     2.0      2.0
sevl .                   10100.0                      4.1    -4.2      3.0      4.4    -2.4    -1.4    -1.4    -1.4       4.0      4.0
IL ndlc T ae               637.0                       1.7    -0.7     1.0      1.2      1.4      -      2.3      2.6     3.8      3.0
C__otie,                   376.0                        12.1    -3.5     7.6      5.5    -2.6    -6.3      2.6      2.5     2.1      2.2
Greup Investment             111.0                     20.1    -.0       5.5    10.1    41.2    -3.0    -6.0    *7.7    -4.6         6.2
beer's of  a                 2S2.0                    -10.5    -7.4    16.7   -27.6    10.6        7.0     7.3      7.0     8.4   *.4
luasrs of an               17660.0                     38.3    -4.1    16.0       2.9    -1.3    -2.1    -3.0    -3.3    -4.3    -4.9
CDP asfitor (19661_0)                                24.8    80.5    30.8    72.9   100.0   125.0   146.3   186.0   187.4   175.5
Eachmngs  be. 0=1"  GNP)                               39.9    42.9   100.0   1.0   205.0   890.0   690.0   745.0   790.0   63.0
haere of DP St Rhrket Prices(3)               Averag Amual Increa.. (CM
(at current pries)                       (as cates  19. pricm)
1931    1935    1166    1o9    199             19112/16         16
Grow. Does.tic Product       10.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                 2.6              3.6
Agr;culture                 S7.1    57.6    89.6    61.7    61.9                2.6              4.6
XNdty                        6.6     7.8      0.0     6.2      8.0              *.5              1.4
Senvim                      32.2    32.0    29.5    23.3    25.3                2.1              0.7
ndirSC Teas.                 1.3     1.9      2.0     4.3      4.6              9.o             11.2
c-n.u_.tien                   93.6   111.6   110.4    97.2    95.8                5.3              1.4
Group lw                      256.7    11.7    31.6    23.3    17.8               9.6             -6.0
Eot of ow                     11.2     9.9      9.5    15.7    13.6               5.1              6.7
Zmpert r of asm 11.6                   2.9    51.5    36.0    81.8                4.7             -4.5
A.  S of MP Curreut
RLIC FDWIC                    192    196       1"      169    ll
Current Revenue.              11.1    11.7    11.1    23.7    26.2
Currant Nen-intor_t Epend.   23.2    19.3    20.6    19.3    16.9
Cepital Expeniture            30.8    36.8    32.2    80.5    46.7
Foreign Finncing              11.9    20.0    16.3    26.8    26.6
SKr-. : MI  Steff Cutiete. en projectioen.



-29-
Pe"6 a of a
TABU Abe GJ1J  31 *  -      6Wl1C P AICT    1      1     ---
Amut                      Ammel gremb rate CS) et oim"eet prb..                Period Aw_es. Growth ERnb qU
(at II lo UN 
Indicatore                as currant prices)                       Actual                    54mtail          Actual         Projected
1_6             --      _ _        -       - -  -_-_           ___-    ___ ____                      -     _
19U     1166    16       1164    116       116           1166            196-
EKtlGL TJWoE
Wlrchandin. Eporte                  9.6             44.2    -2.3   -31.1    87.3   -41.5       0.5             -1.J               9.0
areumndmlw                         0.6            -17.9    ".       -3.6    -2.4   -6.9       4.7             -2.8              .0
PFee Kern-el                       1.0            J7.5   -20.3  -41.0    80.2   -U.J  C30.0                    4.1            -2.8
Cashwew emie                       5.2            170.6   -9.3    1.2   e00.0   -17.5    13.6                 81.5             10.0
Fish and Shrimp                    1.0             40.0     4.6   -45.5   141.7   -41.4   -42.2               11.J             6.5
Other                              1.3             52.4   -41.0   -87.7   -19.6   -37.0    10.0             -11.0 o.7
harchdi-   Imeport                66.0            -19.1    4e.3  -14.2        5.7    12.4    -1.6              3.6             -8.0
Food Item                         11.6             17.9    14.1    36.0   -15.2    19.3   -18.0              1i.1             -4.0
Other Canen.. Goods              18.3             -1.3      9.7     6.3    -1.2    -0.5       3.0              2.3              2.4
Petroeum                          5.1            -2=.      85.7   -24.3      3.5    44.6    17.0               1..             2.4
lmuwfctured Oa_dr                 30.6            -2e.6    10.6   -20.7    16.6      3.6      0.0              1.4            -11.0
PRIC                                        1960    1161    1962    1t"1    1964    1911    196        1967    116      1969    19W0    1991
Empowt las. (1141.100)                     116.0   111.1   111.8    *7.5    64.0   102.J   l10.0   104.3   111.4   117.J   124.9   130.0
Import Inlsd (1961.10)                      016.9   112.8   220.5   112.9   106.0   101.4   100.0   104.6   106.1   112.2   114.1   119.6
Term of Trde Index                         1061.5    16.8    e2.4    77.1    60.0   101.4   100.0       9.7   106.0    06.0   107.5  210.7
Composeitin of lnrchndee TradeCS)
(at current pricee)
1ow0    19      166    1w9    1991
Exports                     100.0   100.0   200.0   100.0   100.0
Groundnut.                 23.9    16.4      6.5    11.4    10.8
pal. Krn-el                18.4  * .6    10.2        9.7    11.0
C*ce Pltoe                  3.5    41.4    53.3    45.9    46.4
is.h and esrimp            34.5    27.6    10.6    20.8    19.7
Dther                      21.2     6.0    18.7    12.2    22.1
Importe                     100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                       18.3   .20.3    19.3    18.8    17.1
Other Can. God             22.5    24.7    20.6    21.7    27.2
Petrol_um                  17.5    12.5    12.4    10.0    11.0
Inte  idtoe 0sd            24.2    23.9    25.4    21.3    20.0
_           OuDctured aoode  17.5    15.5    16.1    11.2    16.7
Surce: ZXR Steff Estimatse md Projections.



- 30 -                            Annex II
GUINEA-BISSAU
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as of Harch 31, 1987)
Borrower: Guinea-Bissau
Credit
No.        Year           Purpose                   Amount a/  Undisbursed a/
----(US$ Millions)----
Two fully disbursed Credits                            15.8           0.00
1334-GUB     1983     Petroleum Exploration II         13.1           1.10
1392-GUB     1983     Bissau Port                      16.0           5.44
1473-GUB     1984     Roads II                           4.0          2.24
SF18-GUB     1984     Roads II                           4.0          1.50
1517-GUB     1985     Technical Assistance               6.0          2.17
1531-GUB     1985     Reconstruction Import            10.0           1.13
A014-GUB     1986     Suppl. Recons. Import              5.0          3.22
Total                        73.9          16.70
of which has been repaid        --
Total now held by IDA        73.9
Total undisbursed                          16.70
The status of the projects listed above is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA projects in execution. This report is updated twice yearly and
is circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31 of each
year.
a/   IDA Credits after 1980 and Special Fund Credits are denominated in
Special Drawing Rights. U.S. dollar amounts in table are calculated
using exchange rates prevailing at time of credit negotiations.



GUINEA-BISSAU
MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT & FSHERIES
ORGANIZATION CHART
SECR TARY~ ~~~~~~~~~~MfITR.BARDO
E!|     STATDIRECTORS 
MINISTE' S
CABINET
DOCUMEVIATION                  I 
JFl HE ES           gGRICUTR              IVSO       IFRCSTRY
DI  TRATE         DIRECCTORUATE       DIRVECSTTORCAKTE     DIRECTOR AT E
I     OFWI
I D1P~ARThI ENT                                                 DEIOGAAL
0TeSTeA RCH                                                  DEAINS
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Dr P TMELTT
PROtu IO
&PROTECTION
DEPARJMENT
EQUIP0ENT E  I 
WORLD BANK 30339f.



- 32 -                            Annex IV
GUINEA-BISSAU
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I -    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:      8 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                Government/Consultants/IDA
(c)  Appraisal mission:                  November 1985
(d)  Negotiations:                       November 1986
(e)  Credit effectiveness planned:       July 1987
Section II -   Special Actions
None.
Section III -  Special Conditions
-    local counterparts with  qualifications acceptable  to IDA would
work closely with the resident experts (para. 49);
-    the work plan and training program of GAPLA's Statistics Division
would be submitted to IDA no later than December 31, 1987 (para.
54);
-    the Planning Division would prepare summary analyses of all rural
sector projects (on-going and planned) by the end of each calen-
dar year (para. 55);
-    Government would  take  all  necessary  measures  to  permit  the
rational exploitation and adequate conservation of forestry
resources, and a forestry development plan would be submitted to
IDA before December 31, 1987 (para. 63);
-    a research  program would  be submitted  to IDA  by the  Forestry
Service before December 31, 1987 (para. 64);
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(a) the Project Unit would have been established (para. 49);
(b)  an IDA-approved contract would have been signed with a  technical
assistance consulting firm (para. 50); and
(c) the Dutch grant would have become effective (para. 75).



- 33 -                           Annex V
Page 1 of 9
GUINEA-BISSAU
AGRICULTURE SERVICES PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
KEY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE STAFF
The Government of Guinea-Bissau has requested IDA's assistance in the
financing of a First Agricultural Services Project, aimed at supporting
efforts by the Ministry of Rural Development and Fisheries (MDRP) to
enhance its sector planning capacity, to strengthen its various technical
activities and to improve the Ministry's management. A total of 280
man-months of residentIvisiting experts and consultants (Annex VI) would be
provided to MDRP to strengthen its Planning Bureau (GAPLA). its Secretariat
of Fisheries and its Departments of Irrigation, Forestry, Animal Production
and Fruit Production. All experts would work with designated Guinean
personnel to carry out a work program agreed with IDA, and would be respon-
sible for training their local counterparts, in part on the job and in part
through participation in suitable courses organized in Guinea-Bissau and
abroad. The experts would function as a team, reporting directly to the
Project Manager who in turn would report to the Minister through the
Director of GAPLA. The Government of Guinea-Bissau would request technical
proposals from qualified consulting firms interested in providing services
for the experts. Selection would be carried out in accordance with the
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank and its Borrowers,
and evaluated according to the criteria indicated in Section H below.
The :erms of reference described below are limited to the seven key
technical assistance staff. In addition, the project would provide other
resident experts. visiting experts and consultants for varying periods as
detailed in Annex VI. Their terms of reference would be prepared by the
principal experts or department heads during project implementation.
A.  ManaRement Support
1.   Project Coordinator
Reporting to the Minister of MDRP through the Director of GAPLA for a
period of three years, the project manager will be responsible for oversee-
ing all operations of the project and for providing management support to
MDRP as a whole. He will ensure a productive environment for the other
experts to do their work. At the same time, he will monitor their perform-
ance. Within this framework, the expert will:
(a) develop a system to manage all personnel aspects related to the
employment of technical assistance in the agricultural sector in
Guinea-Bissau;
(b) help recruit required additional resident experts and consultants
and provide them with the necessary logistical support;



- 34 -                           Annex V
Page 2 of 9
(c) prepare, in coordination with the experts and counterparts, the
overall work program for the project and supervise its implemen-
tation; supervise the work of the other experts and local coun-
terparts; and the training of local staff;
(d) determine, in conjunction with HDRP staff and other resident
experts, the needs for additional studies and specialist support
in all areas and prepare terms of reference for individual
short-term consultants;
(e) be responsible for compiling the project's progress reports; and
(f) supervise directly the work of the project accountant in:
(i) the procurement of vehicles and equipment, including the
preparation of bidding documents;
(ii) the preparation of annual budgets for the project activities
in each unit; and
(iii) the maintenance of project accounts in accordance with
acceptable accounting practices.
Qualifications
The position requires a candidate with managerial and administrative
capabilities, with a good feel for organisational issues and the design of
administrative procedures. The candidate should hove at least five years
of experience in project management, preferably in Sub-Saharan Africa and
should be fluent in Portuguese.
2.   Human Resources Specialist
Reporting to the Director of GAPLA. the Human Resources Adviser will
assist in the management of the ministry'*s staff requirements and in the
coordination of all expatriate technical assistance to the agricultural
sector. In particular, he will:
(a) help develop management information system and staff policies for
the effective day-to-day management of HDRP; and
(b) liaise with other Ministries and ensure that no duplication of
efforts exists with other sources of technical assistance.
Qualifications
The position requires a specialist with at least ten years of experi-
ence, preferably in Africa, in human resources management and international
technical assistance procedures, and the capability to establish efficient



- 35 -                          Annex V
Page 3 of 9
working relationships both vith lcs) administrators and expatriate assis-
tance organizations. He should be fluent in Portuguese and English.
B.   Sector Planning (GAPLA)
1.   Agricultural Planner
The incumbent will be GAPLA's principal advisor for 3 years, on all
aspects of rural sector policy and strategy and will help HDRP to establish
a capacity for planning and policy analyses.
The broad responsibilities of the planner will be to assist his
counterparts in preparing and updating periodically a rural development
strategy, setting up the policy options for the sector; and to contribute
to the development of policies, including prices, marketing, support to
agricultural production. credit, input procurement and distribution.
More specifically the agricultural planner will:
(a) prc?are and supervise a work and training program for GAPLA;
(b)  based on the investment revier carried out under the PPF, super-
vise and follow-up the sectoral investment program in consul-
tation with the Ministry of Planning;
(c)  ensure consistency between investment proposals and options
adopted for the sector;
(d)  identify and analyze constraints to rural development and propose
measures to fully utilize the potential of the sector and provide
adequate services to farmers;
(e)  ensure an adequate repartition of resources to the rural sectors
of the various provinces, taking into account their potentials
and investment proposals;
(f)  analyze, within the context of the rural development strategy,
policies affecting prices, marketing, input supply and rnLal
credit, evaluate their macro-economic effects and make recommen-
dations; and together with the agricultural economist and consul-
tants, assist GAPLA to establish an effective system for project
preparation and evaluation, and for investment review. The
expert will train the local counterparts to identify projects and
programs for the national investment plan, to review and analyze
rural sector investment proposals from within and outside the
country, and to prepare new rural sector projects.
Qualifications
This senior technical advisor would have high level training in
economics including macroeconomics and at least five years of experience in



-36 -                           Annex V
Page 4 of 9
agricultural investment planning and policy analysis. The expert should be
fluent in Portuguese.
2.   Agricultural Economist
The expert will be assigned for a period of 2-1/2 years and together
with consultants will establish a Project's Division within GAPLA. He Vill
also assist the monitoring, evaluation and statistics division of GAPLA.
Within this framework, the expert will:
(a) train his counterparts, and assist them in setting up the
Projects Division and in carrying out the economic and financial
analyses of projects to be included in the investment program;
(b) working closely with GAPLA Planning division, review yearly the
investment program;
(c) prepare by December 31 each year, a summary analysis of all rural
sector projects under execution and planned '- start bef3re 1988,
together with a timetable for analyses of t_e benefits and costs
of those projects;
(d)  with help from consultants, define a work program on statistical
activities and methods to help the monitoring and evaluation
division to collect useful production, marketing and price
statistics and other data required to better understand the rural
sector under existing structures; and
(e) assist the Monitoring and Evaluation division of GAPLA in train-
ing the H & E units of rural development projects in proper
techniques of sampling, yield and output measures. The expert
vill prepare a simple manual to be used by projects to prepare
management information systems.
Qualifications
The expert shall have post-graduate training in agricultural economics
with a good background in microeconomics and statistical methods, and at
least five years of experience in project analysis or monitoring and
evaluation with some experience in smallholder farming. The expert should
have experience in the use of micro-computers and must be fluent in Portu-
guese.



- 37 -                          Annex V
Page 5 of 9
C.  Irriastion
Rural Engineer
The infrastructural needs of Guinea-Bissau for agricultural develop-
ment are substantial, the Department of Irrigation (DHSA), expertise and
resources are not commensurate with those needs. The focus of DHSA work
has been on mangrove rice cultivated under the various ecological condi-
tions of Guinea-Bissau. Inland-valley swamp rice cultivation has been
relatively neglected. To remedy this situation, a rural engineer would be
recruited for a period of 2-12 years to assist the DBSA. He will:
(a) train local staff;
(b) review all available data on inland valley-swamps and assess
efforts currently aimed at their development;
(c)  make an inventory of the various exploitable areas in the coun-
try;
(d) determine the socio-economic, pedological, hydrological and
meteorogical data needed to establish the potential of these
areas;
ce) prepare a catalogue of the main areas suitable for rice cultiva-
tion through the use of simple water control structures involving
full farmer participation in the development of about 200-300 ha
blocks;
(f) based on the findings of the above work, prepare a project for
Government consideration to be proposed to external agencies for
financing;
(g) supervise the development of these projects:
(h) determine resource needs, including training of local staff; and
(i) determine the need for consultants and coordinate their work to
provide the additional data needed.
Qualifications
The expert should be trained as an engineer with experience in irri-
gated agriculture and drainage. He should have a minimum of five years
experience, of which ar least half in the tropics, and be experienced in
project preparation. He must be prepared to train and guide local staff.
He should be fluent in Portuguese.



-S8-                            AnneX V
Page 6 of 9
D.   Forestry
Forestry Adviser
The development of the forestry subsector in Guinea-Bissau is current-
ly impaired by several factors, including social and institutional con-
straints. Forest fires and illegal fellings, which the institutions
handling the sector are unable to control, account for a substantial part
of an estimated 600,000 m3 of timber destroyed yearly; Government has
requested support from the international community to strengthen the
forestry services toward the establishment of a coordinatedicoherent policy
for the subsector. For this purpose the project would provide the services
of a forestry adviser for 2 112 years to:
(a) train local counterparts.
(b) examine the available information including the recent Forestry
Inventory, the new Forestry Legislation and National Development
Plan for the subsector prepared by FAO experts and, on this
basis, formulate a National Forestry Policy which would form the
framework for the future development of the sector;
(c) review the new forestry legislation and monitor its enactment to
ensure its consistency with the National Forestry Policy;
(d) advise on specific technical problems; and
(e) advise, prepare and coordinate national programs regarding
protection of forest resources, sylviculture and management of
resource exploitation, and promotion of economically sound
industrial exploitation.
Activities implemented by the resident expert should result in advice
on (i) the contents of a forest development program, (ii) the organization
of activities to stop destruction of forest resources (e.g.. forest fires);
(iii) research, introduction and dissemination of adequate plant material;
(iv) actions required to improve the industrial sector operations; and
(v) preparation of an adequate price policy for internallexternal markets.
Qualifications
The incumbent should be a qualified tropical forest specialist with at
least five years of experience; he should have experience in forestry
policy formulation, and should be able to communicate in Portuguese with
local staff under training.



- 39-                            Annex V
Page 7 of 9
E.   Fisheries
The Government of Guinea-Bissau has requested support from IDA for the
establishment of a Data Processing Center at the Secretariat of Fisheries.
The Center will be installed and initially operated by three resident
experts and visiting experts financed under the project in the area of
fisberies surveillance, statistics. and economics. Local staff will
undergo custom-made training abroad and upon return to Bissau will continue
training on the job and, at the end of the resident experts duty, will take
over their responsibilities. The main tasks of the experts (and of the
Center) will be to:
(a) collect information on fish catches and stock composition from
observers on board of foreign vessels;
(b)  process this and other scientific data using adequate statistical
methods and store, process and analyze the data;
(c) prepare computer programs designed to process all available data
on fishing in the 200 mile EZ of Guinea-Bissau and produce
periodical statistical reports, analyses, and summaries with
recomsendations;
(d) assess and prepare reports on the status of resources, total
catch, and effect of this catch on fish populations; based on
this, advise on allocation of fishing quotaslspecies;
ce) train observers and local counterparts on surveillance, computer
use, data handling and statistical methods;
(f) based on data gathered, formulate overall resource conservation
and allocation policy, calculate license fees; and
(g)  estimate local cost of the Center's operation and compare it with
additional revenue generated due to its operations, and estimate
recurrent funds required for operation beyond project's coverage.
The Center will be operated by resident experts for 18 to 24 months
with an overlap of 9 months with local counterparts after their return from
training abroad.
Qualifications
It is intended that the post of Head of the Center should be filled
for a period of two years by a qualified fisheries specialist with experi-
ence in surveillance, enforcement and management of foreign fleets in the
200 mile EZ. The candidate selected must have at least five years of
experience in the field, be able to establish the Data Center, analyze the
operation and manage it until a local counterpart could take over; for this
purpose, the expert would be directly responsible to the Secretary of State



- 40-                            Annex V
Page 8 of 9
for Fisheries who will supervise the work program. The expert should be
fluent in Portuguese.
F.   Reporting Requirements
The consultants shall prepare and submit the following reports within
the periods indicated: (a) within three to six months of the starting
date, an inception report that should contain the general plan of action
for a training and work program, and any proposed revisions to the first
year program or deadlines agreed between Government and IDA; (b) at three
months intervals, progress reports that shall be submitted to the Minister
of MDRP, smmnarizing the work performed during that period, the staff and
financial inputs, a summary of interim findings and progress in preparing
the reports in the agreed annual work program and update of the work
program for the next quarter; and (c) four months before each expert's tour
of duty, a draft completion report summarizing work performed and major
lessons learned. All these reports will be consolidated by the Project
Coordinator who will submit them to the Minister.
G.  Personnel. Facilities and Data to be Provided by Government
Government will designate and make available on a full-time basis:
(a) suitably qualified persons to act as counterparts to the full-time
resident personnel, organized in divisions within MDRP responsible for
carrying out the work program described above; and (b) suitable clerical
and administrative staff to support the divisions. Government shall
provide the consultants with all available data for carrying out the work
program, including, but not limited to, statistics on Guinea-Bissau's
economy, finances and investment performance of the rural sector, details
of the personnel assigned to NDRP, and all other relevant information.
Government shall take all steps necessary to permit the movement of the
consultant's staff safely and without hindrance both into, out of. and as
necessary internally within the country, as required for the performance of
their services, and will provide them with the logistic support required.
H.   The Firm's Offer and the Selection Criteria
Each offer should contain: (a) a statement of experience in similar
projects including in Sub-Saharan Africa, comments on the terms of refer-
ence and work program (together with suggested modifications), and a
description of approach to the task; (b) the names and curricula vitae of
the resident specialists proposed, indicating their experience and qualifi-
cations (with particular emphasis on satisfactory counterpart relationships
and success in training), confirming their availability to take up post in



-41 -                           Annex V
Page 9 of 9
Guinea-Bissau by August 1987 at the latest, 1/ and (c) a description of
the backup support and facilities to be provided by the firm's head office
and the method of recruitment and/or pool of consultants, together with a
description of the administrative and logistical arrangements it expects to
undertake to establish the team in Guinea-Bissau.
The relative weights to be attached to the above criteria during
evaluation of the technical offers are approximately: the firm and its
experience (10); approach to the task (10) and in particular to training
(8); team qualifications and experience (60, 9 for each position, plus 6
extra for the team leader--these figuies would change upon addition or
reduction of the number of experts required); and logistics/backup (8).
In accordance with Bank Guidelines and Government's procurement
regulations. Government will invite the firm judged to have submitted the
best technical offer to submit a detailed proposal and draft contract as a
basis for negotiations. Prior to negotiations, Government may request that
the resident experts proposed by the chosen firm visit Guinea-Bissau for
in-country interviews with senior Government officials and personnel, and
for their familiarization with conditions before taking up their posts.
Reasonable living and travel erpenses will be paid by Government.
1/        The Government attaches particular importance to the selected
firm's undertaking that, but for exceptional cause, the staff
proposed in the offer will be available to take up their posts
immediately and will, under normal circumstances, remain for at
least the first 18 months of the project.



- 42 -                               Annex VI
GUINEA-BISSAU
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
DETAILS RESIDENT EXPERTS/CONSULTANTS
Total                    Timing
Man-Months     PY1          PY2        PY3
1. Management Support
Project Coordinator               36           12          12          12
Human Resources Specialist        18           12           3           3
2. Sector PlanninR (GAPLA)
Agricultural Planner              36           12          12          12
Agricultural Economist            30            6          12          12
Fruit Production
Visiting Expert                  4            2           2           -
Consultants                        6            2           2           2
3. Technical Departments
A. Irrigation (DHSA)
Rural Engineer                30            6          12          12
Consultants                    6            2           2           2
B. Forestry
Forestry Adviser              30            6          12          12
Consultants                    2            -           1           1
C. Animal Production
Livestock Specialist
(visiting)                   6           2            2          2
Veterinarian (visiting)        6            2           2           2
4. Fisheries Secretariat
Fisheries Specialist          24          12           12           -
Statistician                  18          12            6          -
Economist                     18           12           6           -
Consultants                   10           2            4          4
Sub-totals
Resident Experts        240          90           87         63
Visiting Experts and
Consultants           40           12           15         13
TOTAL           280          102         102          76
_m           _m           _ 



usaz swam 
Snare kcst by Project Cuuumt
(US S WI
Wp        NW  SECIOR                                                                   rEct                 Ce4,tiwswi:
IWMGENCNT   PLANNING         NW          NW   1 3             NW  MNINLS  niP FEIWI   REIaPnuI                 --- ---------
SUPNOR1       GAItA      11610ATION  FtSTRY  FISHERIES  PUClTION   F'ROUCTION   FACILITY    Total               Z      bAmt
: ==z::::   -    :::XZ-a--  .:::::::::   ::-: :::.  ::::::::m1::   : a:      :::::s   : :s2 s 1       38fl   8839  338 sz
I. INlSTCENT COSTS
.................
As CIVIL VOlkS                                      -           309            -       155           -             -            -             -     464   10.0        46
D. VEHICLES                                        23            89          31         48           -            90            -             -     281   10.0        2S
C. EGUIPMENT I FURNITURE                           19           62           18        102         198            62            -             -     460   10.0        46
D. lECHNICAL ASSISTAKCE                           297           62          247        24?         494            99            -             -   24076    5.0       104
E. TRAINING . STUDIES v CONSULTANIS                 -           157          95        113         429                         39             -      32    5.0        42
F.SPECISL FUND                                      -           700            -          -           -            -            -                    700    0.0        0
0. PROJECT FRIPARATION                              -             -            -         -           -             -            -           200     200    0.0         0
Total INVESIIENT COSTS                               338         2,008          391       666       3.121           251           39           200   5.015    5.3       26
11. KCURRENI COSTS
A. LOCAL STAFF                                    13           107          35        107           -             -            -             -     262    0.0         0
3. TRAEL AND ALL(U NCES                           62            17           8         15           -            15            -             -      117    0.0        0
C. OKERATING COSTS AND MAINTENANCE                57            79           32         o           -            60            -             -      300   10.0       31
........-   -----------.. -- - -- -    -- -- -   ...... .. ..   ---- --- --  --- --- -  - --- --- -   - ---   ...  ...    .. .... .. ........
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                132           203           76       202            -           75                          -      687    4.5       31
lotal IASELINE COSTS                                  470         2.211          467        867       1.121           326           39          200   5.701    5.2       297
Piwsical Contintmncles                              25            96           25        57          66            26            2             -      297    0.0        0
Price Continencius                                 105           321          109        195        196            71             7            -   1.005    5.6        56
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   600        2t628          601      1.118       1.303           424           48           200   74003    5.0       353
a=:=::    ::::::   :::::  ::::    ::::t   :::-::_-==::  urn:::::::=:-=                           =::-S
Taxes                                                -           39            -         20           -             -            -             -      569.1             5
Foriun Exchanie                                    476        2.268          528        832       1.358           364           48           200   6.074    5.1       311
November 12. 3986 09:30
II.,X
CN
M



Annex VII
Table 2
GUINEA PISSAU
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Sumears kcounts by Year
(U:; s '000)
Base Costs           Foreisn Exchange
PYI    PY2    RY3   Total       Z      Amount
I. INVESThENT COSTS
A. CIVIL VoRK.                             365     99      -   464       60.0      279
P. VEHICLES                                167    114      -   281    100.0        291
C. EQUIPHENT I FURNITURE                   257    157     46    460      90.0      414
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                    7'5    750    552  2v076    100.0    29076
E. TRAINING , STUDiES * CONSULTANTS        378    297    157    832    100.0       832
F. SPECIAL FUND                            300    300    100    700    100.0       700
G. PROJECT PREPARATION                     200      -      -   200    100.0        200
Total INUESThENT COSTS                      2,442  19718    855  5,015      95.4    4,783
II. PECiEREIT COSTS
A. LOCAL STAFF                             40    107    115    262      0.0         0
B. TRAVEL AND ALLOMANCES                   39     40     40    117       0.0        0
C. DPERATIN6 COSTS AND MAINTENANCE         89    110    110   308      60.0       i85
-----  - -----  -----  - - -   -   - -- - - -- ----
Total RECURRENT COSTS                         167    256    264    687     26.?       185
T3tal BASELINE COSTS                         2,608  1,974  1,119  50701      87.1    49967
Phfsical Continrencies                      145    100     51    297      88.0      261
P?,ie Continsencies                         259    40,    338  1G005     84.1       845
Total PROJECT COSTS                          39013  2.482  1508  7.003       86.7    6v074
Taxes                                        45     13      -     58      0.0         0
Foreign Exchange                          2v6,2  2,16'  1,235  69074       0.0        0



CITTNEA-BTSSAU
AGR'PIctJrRAL. SERVICES PROJECT
PROPIOSEI) FINANC ING PLAN BY PROJECT COMPONENT
(IIS$ millloii equivalent)
IIIA                  Netherlands                    Covernment
nlunlIl   %  Amount          %Amount                                Total
(Civi  Works                       0.3             60              -             -           0.2             40           0.5
Veli I ci eS, I'qU I pment &
I'urntuire                      0.9            ION-                            -            -               -           0.9
Techlnical Assist miice,
consultants, Studies,
TrainIing,                    2.1             5S            1.8            45             -              -            3.9
Operating costs                    0.2             25              -                         0.6             75           0.8
Special Ftincd                       -              -           0.7           100               -             -           0.7
I'-colect lPreparation
Fnerlity                        0.2            IN              _               -            -             --            0.2
Toral I fnaincnlug                          =53           2.5             36           0.8             11            7.0
x
c-
'-



uilalinaik uuvio Mm
ESVIIIEI sVAIIE w wsiv *IMiMiiN
~~~............ ............................... 
INA FY      Biabuunt          Cuuiati,.         At,lmtid@                          4 -
.4  kmtw    by uuee,tur aI shbaresel al  prEfil I                           f 1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............  - - - - - - ............ . .. -----------........................*_
3.8 
1   I1        loo bi           200                I                                                                                    -
II       300               500                5
19"      I        400               900            I i                              4-
&11  Sttr   *          1F26 *    rl   l
1"9      1        500              gMO               29                           2.5
II  50              2,3*                39 
11       300sso         2,150 49
1   1    400               00                11 59                         2
99 1  1           300            3,500                20 o  i
I        204 soo3,100                        21                          9..
9992     I                                           Hi |0   9,                                                            r,
199  I                                                                                                -0    0   5X2-.
":  "                      n                              ,               ~~~~~~~~~~,,    ,,
9994     I                                          100
..... .......                                                                       . .. ..../
No.  IAutuimAfriau ol.pele1 thucl0                                                                       ,
Assistance projecitl lpiApe e  9905.
IDA Fiscal Veu: JlIy I - Jg   30.                                                1957            196a          1909           199^          1991           1112          19S25          1994
Ph4jact Year: J1uvary I - ktuuur 31.
larqet dAtas:  Nugot Lat ions  -  NOVember  1913h                                                                           I" lift"  nu
Effu,.tIveness  -   July   1987
*i EstisatZ dikwblrb s do not folull    re"inel profile. lb& asuqtl.  is tha  l.leu..tati.
mill be delaye ee* rear and diubwueweta v1il be delaed ome owe Vey.
b/i  0.2 sillIo Pif.



H!C::. :1
':    ''  -   -  1 x,I6JW   15430.
:-  -  - :-  :-  iJ                             ~ ~ ~          ~~S  E  N       E
7   ~~~~~~~~~~,~7
*                   -~~~~1
--0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C-~ A;
_tZyt~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~cana.~ .   (- To-_.   
A. rL A -N ri                       fi
".'    ,                          "~~~~~~~~~"  '.Iud     B.   -d 
-OCEAN 
IC~~~~~I
w  : rV                +            <'-'SO   edS~~~Cnchana        a: 
1  00           .~                              -       /   --    r :ih..
4P30'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~\ 3                  F _      
) '    16 ~~Carenque~~ ~  Vq         Nh
GIJNEA   V                                                 - -  -   -  .-  .-E-~~~~0RAIJG
A/LAN FTRJ   I C A7           -
.M'-'-S.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j                                                             K ----,,, 
.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~ ,-;:i;,
.,~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a -0A ,-                                             , ,s _ 
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
aw~~~~II~fV



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r 00o                         rod*
-D  X37 tWk                                   st4N
E      G        A       L
Th Oak.,7>Di
re    ~~~Jumbemf7     /                      vG
>:   --t-  ;JX,    e      ,+9~~~~~~~~~Wn   -
-                                      \   ~~~~~~G
- +   t      B A    A    T A    ' %
f  (;                ~~~~~~~/
IY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
* jR f   '             R A
a     W0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to  t 



IBRD- 15779F
tAw      Idw                           wbw                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAY IEIR
G         A          L
Tb ODakr Do ha
Juenbuii_-- ------S--------
*~~~ Canhmma
Pan~T                                 8Ft    "-u u u  t
\ S           \--s~~~!yITUd    -- ri            Gak                       )    , -'     -- -
W2
,, ) -                                                           L  !
t  (;  t~G A U|
*           Jugud.t    B AA           T  A .                                                                   -
<~~~~~~~ s._-: ?
' a   /   _4/  (   f .f'  -'                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11'3W-: 
I,            1        "'                                                               -~                      =  
- r - aS ~~~~~REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU-:
P f JG, 4  ) Xime              Ba \                         REPI8CA DA GUINe -B/SSAU
f7B5 | /                      -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ptied roods  4;Iin doetic pcor 
Cl'pE I  _.RAa45AtCATR                                                         ZRTUER)Rs
'I.  '.   t  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Inadrod                           .nm,
~~~~~1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~    --~~~~~~~~1p;
Xf- laG  eA!S                                               L4                -
~~~/Gonbja ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      FRt Beanbal    13
(I -~~                                                          --- eft os                        im
-'.::--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-w   Ri';-'rs-                                          N.omcp-
of *'-               /                                         fs  -                  bou           . -
-  Paved roads  .~~k matinomest bonaries.tw
_g   -c--s \  t-<  -Unae0  d 20  o a s    60    0   son.l.p:r-
*1                             ESTR4OAS OS TERRA    PORW KILOMTERSAIO
/                                 Feeder~~~~~~~~to2  r30d  40  5
MilES          *                 ;   .
.0W R                                      A    -



