OFFICIALf
CREDIT NUMBER 17 q GUB
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Services Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                ,242           , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 17'q q GUB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT GREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   /M     21                 , 1987, between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU f(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
(B) in order to assist in financing part of the Project,
the Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of the
Netherlands a grant (the Dutch Grant) in an amount of six million
Dutch Guilders Dfl 6,000,000 on terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (the Dutch Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Association as Administrator of
Dutch Funds provided by the Minister of Development Cooperation
of the Netherlands; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted, (the
General   Conditions)  constitute   an  integral   part  of   this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms and acronyms have
the following meanings:
(a)  "MDRP" means the Minist6rio de Desenvolvimento Rural e
Pescas of the Borrower;


﻿- 2 -
(b) "Minister" means the Minister of MDRP;
(c) "GAPLA" means the Gabinete de Planeamento of MDRP;
(d) "PU" means the Project Unit of MDRP;
(e) "HRD" means the Human Resources Division of MDRP;
(f) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(g) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 6, 1985 and
May 24, 1985 between the Borrower and the Association; and
(h) "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year, from
January 1 to December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 3,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the execution
of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account in
a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of     the Borrower, withdraw from    the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 1997, and end-
ing March 1, 2037. Each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on March 1, 2007 shall be one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project. The Borrower's Ministry
of Rural Development and Fisheries shall be responsible for the
coordination of all activities related to the carrying out of the
Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Part A.1 of the Project,
the Borrower shall:
(a) not later than September 30, 1987, establish HRD and
employ a qualified and experienced Guinean national to head the
Division; and
(b) maintain PU and HRD and provide them with facilities,
staff and other resources needed to discharge their responsibili-
ties under the Project, all as set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall employ at all times GAPLA's
Director and local counterpart staff to resident experts, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for its review and comment, not later than six months after the
arrival of each expert, a work plan prepared by said expert
including training of local counterparts.


﻿-5 -
Section 3.06. The Borrower, not later than December 31,
1987, shall prepare and furnish to the Association for its review
and comment:
(a) for purposes of Part C.2 (a) of the Project, a forestry
development plan;
(b) for purposes of Part C.2 (c) of the Project, a research
program for the assessment of the species best adapted to local
conditions;
(c) for purposes of Part C.1 (b) (v) of the Project, a
ptogram for the in-service and overseas training of local staff;
(d) for purposes of Part C.2 (b) of the Project, a program
for the in-service and overseas training of forestry staff; and
(e) for purposes of Part B.1 (b) and (c) of the Project,
the work plan and training program for GAPLA's Statistics
Division.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than Decem-
ber 31, in each year, prepare and furnish to the Association for
its review and comments a summary analysis of all rural sector
projects under execution and to be executed the following year.
Section 3.08. For purposes of Part D of the Project, the
Borrower shall identify and propose to the Association the
activities to be performed, in terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.09. Before undertaking the construction of the
housing referred to in Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its approval the design of such
housing.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts ade quate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices     e operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the com-
pletion of the audit for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-


﻿-7-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that:
(a) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant or loan (including the Dutch Grant)
made to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the  Association   that:   (A)   such  suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7,01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that the events referred to in Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (a) (ii) of that
Section.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) PU has been established in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b) a contract satisfactory to the Association has been
signed with a technical assistance consulting firm for recruiting
and employing the resident experts and consultants referred to in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and
(c) the Dutch Grant Agreement has been executed and
delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except
for the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, have
been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6rio das Finangas
C. P. 67
Bissau
Republic of Guinea-Bissau


﻿-9-
Cable address:                      Telex:
MEF                                257 MF
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United StateF of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   //4     O   J    4
R"egio al Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Civil works and            260,000           100% of foreign
construction                               expenditures and
materials under                             75% of local
Parts A, B, C                               expenditures
and E of the
Project
(2) Vehicles, equip-           520,000           100% of foreign
ment and furni-                             expenditures and
ture under Parts A,                         75% of local
B, C and E of the                          expenditures
Project ,
(3) Technical assistance,     1,190,000          100%
training, studies,
short-term consul-
tancies under
Parts A, B, and C
of the Project
(4) Operating costs             170,000          25%
under Part A of
the Project
(5) Goods and services         540,000           100% of foreign
under Part D                                expenditures
of the Project


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(6) Refunding of               170,000          Amount due
Project Prepara-                           pursuant to
tion Advance                               Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                350,000
TOTAL              3,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures in respect
of Category (5) unless the Association has approved the
activities proposed by the Borrower under Section 3.07 of this
Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen MDRP's
managerial, planning and technical implementation capabilities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening of MDRP's Management Systems
1.   Establishment, operation and maintenance of PU and HRD in
GAPLA.
2.      Development and improvement of procedures, management
information, staff planning and development systems.
3.      Construction of offices and acquisition of vehicles,
equipment and furniture.
Part B:   Strengthening of MDRP's Planning Bureau (GAPLA)
1.   Strengthening of GAPLA's Statistics Division:
(a) preparation of a work plan on statistical activities
and methods;
(b) development of a program for staff training;
(c) on-site training of local staff; and
(d) overseas training of a local statistician and a photo-
interpreter.
2.   Strengthening of GAPLA's Planning and Studies Division:
(a) formulation of an agricultural sector development plan
in collaboration with Ministry of Planning;
(b) elaboration of agricultural subsector strategies in
cooperation with the technical departments of MDRP;


﻿- 13 -
(c) construction of offices, acquisition of vehicles,
equipment and furniture;
(d) performing   summary  analyses   of  all  rural   sector
projects under execution and to be executed in the following
year's investment program;
(e) carrying out a marketing study and a study to identify
suitable fruit planting materials;
(f) preparation of training programs for local staff in
fruit production;
(g) elaboration of fruit production and marketing projects;
(h) preparation of technical procedures and manuals to
assist MDRP's staff in their work;
(i) preparation of training programs for MDRP's staff in
consultation with HRD and MDRP's Technical Divisions; and
(j) in-service training of Planning Division staff and
training of MDRP staff in project preparation and analysis.
3.   Strengthening of GAPLA's Monitoring Division:
(a) establishment of management information procedures for
monitoring rural development projects; and
(b) overseas and on-site training of local staff in
monitoring and evaluation.
Part C:   Strengthening of MDRP's Technical Departments
1.   Irrigation Department:
(a) acquisition of vehicles, equipment and furniture;
(b) elaboration of an irrigation and drainage development
program including:
(i) carrying out technical studies: (a) to assess and
review data on irrigation and drainage potential;
and (b) to identify suitable sites for develop-
ment;


﻿- 14 -
(ii) preparation of a catalogue     of suitable sites
establishing the type of development required;
(iii) preparation of terms of reference for feasibility
studies on the proposed development projects;
(iv) elaboration of proposals to be submitted to the
financing agencies by the Borrower; and
(v) in-service and overseas training of local staff.
2.   Forestry Department:
(a) preparation of a National Forestry Development Plan;
(b) development of a program for local and overseas train-
ing of forestry personnel;
(c) preparation of a research program;
(d) establishment and operation of an applied research
center in forestry;
(e) establishment of research plots; and
(f) construction of office space, acquisition of vehicles,
equipment.
3.   Animal Production Department:
(a) execution of a livestock production system study and an
animal health survey;
(b) in-service and overseas training of local staff; and
(c) acquisition of vehicles, equipment and furniture.
4.   Fisheries Secretariat:
(a) establishment, provision of equipment and furniture,
and operation of a Data Processing and Fisheries Management
Center; and
(b) overseas training of local staff in data processing,
statistics, computer science and economics.


﻿- 15 -
Part D:   Activities in the Agricultural Sector
Activities in the agricultural sector, including certain
activ ties to be identified during Project implementation, such
as, but not limited to, pilot projects in valley-bottom develop-
ment, forestry and livestock; special surveys and studies.
Part E:   Housing
Construction and furnishing of housing for experts to be
employed under the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1990.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles, equipment
and furniture shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Guinea-Bissau may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Local competitive bidding:
Works referred to in Schedule 2, Part B.2 (c), Part C.2 (f)
and Part E may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   International or Local Shopping:
Goods and services estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $100,000 per contract may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.


﻿- 17 -
3.   Other Procurement Procedures:
All contracts for the acquisition of fuel and lubricants
necessary for the execution of the Project may be awarded
following local procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for vehicles, equipment,
furniture, technical assistance, studies and training estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.     The figure of 7.5% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 18 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ the consultants referred to in Sched;
ule 6 to this Agreement, whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
2.     Such consultants and the consulting firm referred to in
Section 6.01 (b) shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Bor-
rowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1
through 5 as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expeniditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $100,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 20 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithirawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories of the Project shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.


﻿- 21 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Project Unit and Human Resources Division
A. Project Unit
1.   PU, established in MDRP as part of GAPLA shall be respon-
sible for the overall management of the Project, in coordination
with the respective MDRP's Departments in charge of the execution
of each individual component of the Project.
2.   PU shall be headed by a full-time internationally-recruitei
Project Manager with extensive experience in management and
coordination of agricultural technical assistance. The Project
Manager will report to the Minister through the Director of
GAPLA.
3.    PU will include, in addition to the Project Manager, a
full-time secretary and driver.
4.   The functions of PU shall include:
(a) liaison   with   the  relevant  departments,   agencies,
ministries and instrumentalities of the Borrower and with the
Association to ensure the efficient and expeditious implementa-
tion of the Project;
(b) coordination of technical assistance to be carried out
under the Project with other sources of assistance;
(c) coordination of recruitment of consultants and their
local counterparts;
(d) assistance in providing housing for the expatriate
consultants;
(e) coordination of procurement and disbursement activities
for goods and services required to carry out the Project;
(f) ensuring that in-service and overseas training under
the Project is programmed and executed;
(g) ensuring that inception and quarterly progress reports
are sent to the Association not later than one month after the
end of the corresponding quarter; and


﻿- 23 -
(h) preparation of the Project Completion Report required
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to Section 9.06 (c)
of the General Conditions.
5.    The Project Coordinator shall be responsible, inter alia,
for the following:
(a) assisting in the recruitment of additional resident
experts and consultants required for the execution of the Project
and providing them with the necessary logistical support;
(b) preparing, in    coordination  with   the  experts  and
counterparts, the overall work program for the Project and super-
vising its implementation, supervising the work of the other
experts and local counterparts, and the training of local staff;
(c) liaising with other Ministries and ensuring that no
duplication of efforts exists with other sources of technical
assistance;
(d) determining,   in  conjunction  with   MDRP  staff  and
other resident experts, the needs for additional studies and
specialist support in all areas and prepare terms of reference
for individual short-term consultants;
(e) compiling PU's reports and preparing the Project's
progress reports;
(f) assisting MDRP in the procurement of vehicles and
equipment, including the preparation of bidding documents for the
execution of the Project;
(g) preparing annual budgets for the Project activities
in each unit; and
(h) maintaining   project   accounts  in   accordance  with
acceptable accounting practices.
B. The Human Resources Division
1.   HRD will be established in MDRP as part of GAPLA, under the
direction of a Guinean national assisted by an internationally-
recruited expert.


﻿- 24 -
2.    MDRP will provide HRD with the necessary support staff,
vehicles and equipment for the execution of the Project.
3.   The functions of HRD shall include:
(a) coordinating all personnel management functions related
to agricultural technical assistance;
(b) advising MDRP on the definition and implementation of
local personnel training policies;
(c) assisting GAPLA and the technical departments in
formulating  training   programs  in  accordance  with   training
policies to be designed;
(d) developing a system to manage all personnel aspects
related to the employment of technical assistance in the agricul-
tural sector in Guinea-Bissau; and
(e) assisting in the development of a management informa-
tion system and staff policies for the effective day-to-day
management of MDRP.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 6
Resident Experts' and Consultants' Services
to be employed under the Project
1.   To assist in carrying out Part A of the Project:
Project Coordinator.
2.   To assist in carrying out Part B of the Project:
(a) Agricultural Planner.
(b) Agricultural Economist.
(c) Consultants.
(d) Human Resources Specialist.
3.   To assist in carrying out Part C of the Project:
(a) Rural Engineer.
(b) Forestry Adviser.
(c) Fisheries Specialist.
(d) Fisheries Statistician.
(e) Fisheries Economist.
(f) Livestock Specialist.
(g) Veterinarian.
(h) Consultants.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


