Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20302-BU
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(24940)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 7.5 MILLION (US$ 10.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A
SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
June 20, 2000
Human Development 4
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 2000)
Currency Unit = Burundi Franc (FBu)
FBu 1 = US$ 0.00152
US$ 1 = 655.226 FBu
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC            Administrative costs
AfDB          African Development B3ank
AfDF          African Development Fund
ASBL          Association Sans But Lucratif (Non-Profit Organization)
BA            Beneficiary Assessment
BURSAP        Burundi - Social Action Project
CSP           Country Strategy Paper
COOPEC        Cooperative d'Epargne et de Cr6dit (Savings and Loan Association)
EC            European Community
GA            General Assembly
GNP           Gross National Product
HBS           Household Budget Survey
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IS           Integrated Survey
ISTEEBU       National Statistical Institute
LCB           Local Competitive Bidding
LS            Local Shopping
MIS           Management Information System
MU            Management Unit
MP            Ministry of Planning
NGO           Non Governmental Organization
OM            Operational Manual
PS            Priority Survey
SDA           Social Dimension of Adjustment
SC            Steering Committee
UA            Unit of Account (AfDB)
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UNHCR         United Nations High Commission for Refugees
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:   Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:    Arvil Van Adams
Task Team Leader:   Menahem Prywes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Implementation Completion Report
Burundi - Social Action Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performnance Ratings                                                    I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               7
6. Sustainability                                                                   8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    9
S. Lessons Learned                                                                 11
9. Partner Comments                                                                12
10. Additional Information                                                         14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               22
Annex S. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              26
Annex 8. Borrower's contribution.                                                  27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Pro ect ID: P000227                                       Pro ject Name: BI-Social Action
Team Leader: Menahem M. Prywes                            TL Unit: AFTH4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 20, 2000
1. Project Data
Namee: BI-Social Action                              L/C/TF Number: 24940
Country/Department: BUJRUNDI                                              Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: HT - Targeted Health; HY - Other Population,
Health & Nutrition; MY - Other Non-sector Specific;
SA - Social Funds & Social Assistance
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/01/89                                 Effective: 09/10/93           10/07/94
Appraisal:  06/19/92                                  MTR: 11/01/96
Approval:  05/13/93                                 Closing: 12/31/97            12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: Government/Twitezimbere
Other Partners: National and International Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs); local
associations; local governments; and ISTEEBU.
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                         Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Emmanuel Mbi                               Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Sector Manager:      Arvil Van Adams                            Alain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:   Menahem Prywes                            Benoit Millot
ICR Primary Author:   Paul Geli (consultant) and Nellie
Sew Kwan Kan (Language
Program Assistant).
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=-Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objectives of the project were to: (i) involve larger segments of the population in the growth



process by encouraging a deeper participation of poor individuals in small-scale productive activities; (ii)
improve the living conditions of the population through employment generation and better social services
and infrastructure; (iii) foster the participation of local governments and non-governmental agencies in
development-related activities; and (iv) improve government capacity to formulate and implement economic
and social policies through a better monitoring of the social situation and a better knowledge of the patterns
of poverty in the country.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the project have not been changed during implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of two major components:
(1) The social action program (US$ 11.9 million), which included four types of micro-projects (income
generating activities, enhancement of economic infrastructure, social infrastructure, and social activities)
and general support to the non-governmental sector.
(2) Monitoring of poverty and living conditions (US$ 2.1 million).
The total project cost of US$ 15.7 million also included US$ 1.3 million for project management and US$
0.4 million for the repayment of the Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
3.4 Revised Components:
The components of the project have not been formally revised during implementation. However, in June
1994 the Govermment entered into a loan agreement with the African Development Fund (AfDF) for 4.6
million Units of Account (UA) to finance the income generating activities and some strengthening of
Twitezimbere and support to NGOs. For all practical purposes, Government and Twitezimbere considered
that the income generating activities were no longer part of the Bank project. As to the Bank, its main
concern at the time was that nothing much was happening for any of the components. After some years of
inactivity, both the Government and the Bank agreed to give priority to the implementation of the social
action program following some project restructuring. The decision to put on hold the poverty monitoring
component, taken jointly by the Government and the Bank in 1996/1997, was prompted by a desire "to get
results in the field", despite the many problems encountered by the project in its start-up phase. In addition,
there were doubts as to whether the country situation would permit the undertaking of surveys on a
nationwide basis; and questions had been raised about the capacity of the national statistical institute
(ISTEEBU) to undertake surveys. The poverty monitoring component was partially implemented towards
the end of the project. The Bank no longer supervised the income generating activities sub-component
since it was considered the responsibility of the AfDF. The ICR includes some information on this
sub-component as provided by the AfDF and Twitezimbere, but the tables on project costs and financing,
procurement, and performance indicators do not take into account the income generating activities.The
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended twice; first, to increase the disbursement percentage
to 100 percent (February 5, 1996); and second, to reallocate the proceeds of the credit and to make the
procurement procedures less cumbersome for the Implementing Agency (September 29, 1997).
- 2 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
"Twitezimbere", as the project has been named in Kirundi, the national language, translates approximately
to "let us develop ourselves with our own resources". This name reflected the thrust of the project
approach which put the beneficiaries at the heart of the development process and emphasized the self-help
nature of the project. The social action program was demand driven, based on the participation of
beneficiaries, eventually represented and assisted by intermediaries agencies, such as NGOs and local
governments. A framework agreement was passed between the Government and an independent, non-profit
organization (named Twitezimbere) which would manage the project in accordance with criteria and
procedures elaborated in an Operational Manual (OM). The approach was quite innovative at the time.
However, it seems that project preparation had underestimated the time and efforts required to mobilize the
population to participate and contribute to the implementation of subprojects in collaboration with an
NGO. This was something very new for the population who was used to relying on Government-directed
choices. In addition, the OM was not sufficiently precise and detailed regarding the modalities of
implementation of the subprojects to be financed by Twitezimbere. The project monitoring system was not
good; there were no baseline survey and no control group. Finally, project design had also overestimated
the capacity of ISTEEBU, a rather weak organization, to execute the component on the monitoring of
poverty and living conditions. Although it is clear that the extremely slow project start-up could in large
measure be explained by the political events of the period. Even under normal circumstances, the start of
project implementation would have been difficult in view of the shortcomings in project design mentioned
above.
On the basis of today standards, the quality at entry is rated as "unsatisfactory".
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The degree to which the project objectives have been achieved can be summarized as follows:
* the objective of involving larger segments of the population in the growth process by encouraging a
deeper participation of poor individuals in small-scale productive activities has been partially
achieved, with financing provided by the AfD)F credit;
* the objective of improving the living conditions of the population through employment generation
and better social services and infrastructure has been achieved in the areas of intervention of
Twitezimbere, but for reasons not related to the project the living conditions of the population
nationwide have worsened over the project period;
* the objective of fostering the participation of local governments and non-governmental agencies in
development-related activities has been achieved, particularly for NGOs; and
* the objective of improving government capacity to formulate and implement economic and social
policies through a better monitoring of the social situation and a better knowledge of the patterns of
poverty in the country has not been achieved.
Overall, the outcome of the project can be rated as "satisfactory".
- 3 -



4.2 Outputs by components:
(1) The social action program: actual cost: US$ 10.0 million, for three types of sub-projects (
enhancement of economic infrastructure, social infrastructure and social activities) and general support to
the non-governmental sector, compared to an appraisal estimate of US$ 11.9 million which also included
income generating activities.
Underlying the four primary objectives listed above, the main goal of this component was to help Burundi's
population and Government alleviate poverty. For reasons that are external to the project and that are
related to the very severe crisis that Burundi has known since the murder of its President on October 20,
1993 (four months after the signing of the credit), the situation has deteriorated nationwide, instead of
improving, over the project period.
The profile of poverty, measured in terms of household expenditure, has worsened rapidly since the
beginning of the current crisis in 1993. Based on survey evidence, the incidence of rural poverty is
estimated to have increased by 80% since 1993, with a doubling of urban poverty. Poverty depth is
estimated to be among the highest in sub-Saharan Africa. Social indicators also fell because of the partial
or complete destruction of infrastructure and the loss of personnel to death and exile, reversing the steady
improvement of the years preceding the crisis. Taking the health sector as an example, reported cases of
major endemic diseases have increased (cases of Malaria in 1995 and 1996 were four times higher than in
1988 and 1989, and diarrhea 50 percent higher); infant mortality rates per 1,000 live births have increased
from an already high 110 in 1992 to 136 in 1996. Furthermore, HIV prevalence has been rising rapidly,
and the infection rate is estimated at 21% in urban areas and 6% in rural areas. In addition, conflict related
population movements have led to poverty among refugees and displaced persons and this is not adequately
measured by conventional household surveys.
Such an evolution raises the question of whether it would not have been more appropriate for the
Government and the Bank to cancel the credit and do nothing as long as the violence and destruction
continued. A technical audit and beneficiary assessment carried out in 1998 as well as the actual outputs
provide ample justification for the continuation of the project. The beneficiary assessment shows that, in
the areas where Twitezimbere intervened, the project had a significant beneficial impact. All the persons
interviewed by the ICR mission confimed that they were very satisfied with that project component.
Recent work on conflict areas in the Africa Region also suggest that despite conflict there are many
interventions that the Bank can and should promote to improve the lives of the population and fight
poverty.
Since the beginning, Twitezimbere received close to 1,300 requests from the population and could not
finance them all. Actual outputs exceed the original appraisal estimates. Annex I shows that the number
of sub-projects completed (566) for social and economic infrastructure is more than twice the number
estimated at appraisal and the employment generated (1,685,000 persons/day) more than three times the
appraisal estimate. The 1998 technical audit and beneficiary assessment confirmed the very positive
impact of the project on employment. The number of beneficiaries is estimated at close to 1.3 millions, far
in excess of the appraisal estimate of 38,000 which had been grossly underestimated. The percentage of
women among the direct beneficiaries is now estimated at about 80 percent, as compared with an appraisal
estimate of 60 percent. Sub-projects consisted mainly of social infrastructure: schools (256, or 45 % of the
total number of sub-projects), health centers (52, or 9 % of total) and water supply (246, or 44 % of total);
the other 12 sub-projects (2 % of total) were for economic infrastructure such as small bridges, feeder
- 4 -



roads and seed warehouses (germoirs). The technical audits confrmed that the quality of the completed
sub-projects is generally good. A criticism made, however, is the lack of sanitary installations and water in
some schools and health centers, which Twitezimbere is txying to remedy with other sources of financing,
whenever technically feasible. Twitezimbere has already begun to implement under the project or under the
Second Social Action Project (BURSAP II) some of the suggestions for improvements made by the
beneficiaries and the technical audits, regarding certain technical aspects of the construction and
rehabilitation (such as materials to be used for roofs and the importance of using dry wood for woodwork),
as well as the "menu" or list of eligible infrastructures (such as housing for teachers and medical
personnel).
The contribution of beneficiaries to the cost of construction (mostly in the form of materials) has not been
systematically quantified over the project period; the 1998 technical audit estimated that it amounted to
about 15 percent of the investment costs of sub-projects. Nevertheless, at times, the contribution of local
materials by beneficiaries has been a problem and a challenge for Twitezimbere and NGOs. In some cases,
this may have been due to a lack of ownership by the beneficiaries, as a consequence of insufficient
community participation in the selection, financing and management of the infrastructure sub-projects
(which is likely to also have a negative impact on the willingness of the communities to maintain the
completed sub-projects). That lesson has been taken into account in the preparation of the follow on
project (BURSAP II), which will attempt to do more to empower residents of communities to choose and
maintain their own project investments.
An additional benefit of the implementation of these infrastructure sub-projects has been the development
of the local contracting and consulting industries; 82 contracts have been signed with individual consultants
or consulting finms and 316 contracts have been signed with small scale contractors. The beneficiary
assessment carried out in 1998 confirms the satisfaction of the contracting and consulting industries with
the project, particularly in terms of the opportunities for growth and the strengthening of their managerial
and technical capacities, although they believe that more could have been done for training (such training
has been included in BURSAP II).
An important way to evaluate the success of a project is to rely on the judgment and opinion of the
beneficiaries themselves. The 1998 technical audit and beneficiary assessment show that the direct
beneficiaries (i.e., the population) are satisfied with the results and impact of the project. As a matter of
fact, they want more of the same. The completed infrastructures are already overcrowded, and future needs
(including the areas that have not been served) are huge. For all infrastructure sub-projects, the main
benefit for the population is improved access, such as the reduction in the time and effort required to go to
a school or a health center or to fetch drinking-water. Infrastructure-specific benefits include an increase in
school enrollment as a result of the construction of additional classrooms and an improvement in the health
status of the population due to the health centers and water supply sub-projects.
The sub-component "General support to the non governmental sector" was not implemented as foreseen (an
action plan to facilitate NGO coordination was not prepared). It is quite clear that the financing of
sub-projects by Twitezimbere with the signing of 173 contracts ("protocoles d'accord") with NGOs and
associations contributed to their development and growth in the whole country. The strengthening of
intermediary structures and local associations by the AfDF project also helped. The number of
NGOs/associations has grown tremendously, from less than 100 in 1993 to about 1,000 in 1999, of which
more than thirty worked on a regular basis with Twitezimbere. To a lesser degree, local governments have
also participated; their role has been important to mobilize the population. The best sub-projects have been
those that had the full support of a dynamic communal administrator.
- 5 -



The sub-component for "income generating activities" was financed by a credit from the African
Development Fund (AfDF) and has not been monitored or supervised by the Bank. The AfDF credit of 4.6
million units of account (UA) was signed in 1994 and became effective in late 1995, but the project
activities really started in 1997. Disbursements have often been suspended due to outstanding arrears.
Originally, 80 percent of the AfDF credit of 4.6 million units of account was allocated to a micro-credit
component. As of the end of 1999, the total amount disbursed was 1.4 million units of accounts. The
AfDF credit financed about 706 micro-projects in various sectors, such as agriculture (market gardening),
livestock, small trades, handicraft, etc. Beneficiaries have been members of rural communities,
unemployed youths and former, deflated civil servants. The aim of the project to reach the poorest of the
poor (including community-based associations) is being partially achieved. However, the project outcomes
have been somewhat jeopardized by the political environment and the dramatic deterioration of the
economic and social conditions, resulting in considerable limitations of local capacity. Although
improving, the rate of recovery of the micro-credits (74 percent) is relatively low. Should this trend
continue on the low side, the objective of implementing a sustainable micro-finance system may not be
achieved. The AfDF project also contributed to strengthen the management unit of Twitezimbere and to
train its staff.
(2) Monitoring of poverty and living conditions (actual cost: US$ 0.7 million, compared to an appraisal
estimate of US$ 2.1 million).
Because of the insecurity prevailing in the country, this component was put on hold during the early years
of the project. In addition, it seems that Government and Twitezimbere did not have a clear understanding
of what this component was trying to achieve. Only part of this component has been implemented in 1998
and 1999, with the carrying out by ISTEEBU (under contract with Twitezimbere) of a priority survey
between October 1998 and March 1999 (the integrated survey which was included in the component has
not been carried out). The programming of activities has been somewhat deficient and there has been no
incentive to obtain results within a reasonable time. A preliminary report has been issued, but the results of
the survey have not yet been fully processed and analyzed; the results based on the survey samples need to
be extrapolated to the national level, using updated weighting coefficients to take into account the extreme
mobility of the population. It is not clear when the final report will be available. One outcome of the
exercise, however, has been a ranking of communes according to their level of poverty, which is being used
to identify the priority interventions to be financed under the Second Social Action Project (BURSAP II).
The other positive aspect is that, through study tours abroad, a number of ISTEEBU staff have benefited
from training in statistics and surveys.
In summary, the outcome of the component is limited. Clearly, the objective of improving government
capacity to formulate and implement economic and social policies through a better monitoring of the social
situation and a better knowledge of the patterns of poverty in the country has not been achieved.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Staff Appraisal report (SAR) did not include any economic analysis of the project. Now that the
project is completed, a cost-benefit analysis is not feasible because of the difficulty of measuring benefits in
a rural economy where data are scarce and where goods, services, and labor are often not traded and
therefore are difficult to value in money terms. However, in connection with the preparation and appraisal
of the follow-up project (Second Social Action Project or BURSAP II), a cost effectiveness analysis of the
first social action project (BURSAP I) was carried out.
-6 -



The analysis of costs shows that BURSAP I has generally achieved unit costs of construction and
percentage costs of administration lower than those of comparable projects (Annex 3). This suggests that
the BURSAP I has been a highly cost efficient project.
4.4 Financial rate of'return:
No financial rate of return was calculated for this project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project has been modest. Twitezimbere has been strengthened
and has shown that it could continue to operate even when Bank financing was no longer available. NGOs
and associations have also benefited. On the other hand, the impact on the Ministry of Planning has been
negligible. Under the conditions prevailing in Burundi during implementation, the justification for this type
of project is not in its institutional development impact, but lies in its ability to undertake concrete actions
and show some tangible results at the community level.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
The project became effective in October 1994, nearly 16 months after credit signing. The Staff Appraisal
report (SAR) stated that "because the management unit will already have a complete pipeline of appraised
projects by the date of credit effectiveness, it is expected that disbursements will pick up fairly rapidly the
first year". That statement did not appear to fully appreciate the many new features of the project in the
Burundi context (i. e., it was the first project to be executed by an NGO, and the first one to rely on the
participation of the population and on their contribution to project costs) which could slow down
considerably the start of the project. Actually, disbursements were insignificant in the first two years or so,
and at about US$ 2.4 millions dollars by the end of 1996 they represented slightly less than 30 percent of
the SAR disbursement forecast. During the early years of the project, Burundi experienced a lot of turmoil
and a high level of insecurity, with the death of two Presidents of the Republic, one during an attempted
coup in October 1993 and the other in Rwanda in April 1994. The October 1993 coup attempt was
followed by widespread massacres and the paralysis of the executive and administrative branches of
Government for several months. The situation was characterized by a large number of professional staff
being absent from the rural areas, a general paralysis of the economy due to the destruction of many roads
and the diversion of many resources to the relief effort in the North, a continuing increase in the number of
displaced persons and refugees, and a continuing high level of insecurity in the country. All of those
factors made it impossible for the project staff to reach many zones of project implementation. The fact
that Twitezimbere remained without a Director over a rather long period has also affected its effectiveness.
Thus, even though the credit became effective in October 1994, field activities never really took off until
October 1995, when a new project director was hired after a recruitment process which took nine months.
Because of insecurity, Bank staff visited the country only once in about two years. When Bank supervision
resumed in September 1995, the mission started a process of project restructuring to focus mainly on the
social fund as a means of providing assistance to the country's poorest population group affected by the
crisis.
The project was again affected by the July 25, 1996 coup. Disbursements were suspended on October 10,
1996 pursuant to section 6.02 of the General Conditions because the conditions for project implementation
- 7 -



and supervision were impeded by the situation of insecurity prevailing in the country and the trade embargo
and economic sanctions imposed by neighboring countries. However, Twitezimbere remained operational
by performing services for other donors such as UNHCR and, therefore, project staff were paid regularly
and remained fairly motivated. The suspension was lifted on June 5, 1997. NGOs, foreign as well as
local, were eager to resume their partnership with the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
See "borrower performance" in Section 7.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.
See "borrower performance" in Section 7.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At the time of appraisal, the cost of the project was estimated at US$ 15.7 million equivalent. IDA planned
to finance US$ 10.4 million, with a Government contribution of US$ 5.3 million. The actual cost, or latest
estimate of the cost of the project is US$ 12.9 million equivalent, which was financed by US$ 9.7 million
from the IDA credit and US$ 3.2 million from both the Government and the beneficiaries.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
A project's sustainability is defined as the probability of its maintaining the achievements generated or
expected to be generated in relation to its objectives over the economic life of the project. To the extent that
the achievements of the component for the monitoring of poverty and living conditions are limited, the
question of the sustainability of that component does not arise (although ISTEEBU, working as a
consulting company under contracts financed by donors, could become self-supporting financially). On the
other hand, the question of the sustainability of the social action program is somewhat complex, depending
on the standards that one considers. In this particular case, the sustainability is also affected favorably by
the follow on project (BURSAP II) that continues and expands activities in BURSAP I.
Some of the objectives of the social action program, such as the increase in purchasing power through
employment generation, are transitory and are not sustainable. But this is a relatively minor aspect. For
the most important part, the social action program has to be analyzed at two levels: at the level of the
executing agency, Twitezimbere, and at the level of the completed sub-projects.
The survival capacity of Twitezimbere has been tested; it has continued to operate during the long period of
suspension of disbursements of the IDA credit, working for UNHCR, and it has also been able to use
financing from the African Development Fund (AfDF). There is no reason why Twitezimbere should not
be able to continue to work as a NGO raising money from donors.
At the level of the completed sub-projects, the evaluation is also favorable. It is worth noting that none of
the infrastructure constructed or rehabilitated by Twitezimbere has been damaged or destroyed, which is
undoubtedly a reflection of the sense of ownership by the population of those assets which they contributed
to create and which they have done their best to protect. The story regarding the operation and
maintenance of the infrastructure is somewhat mixed, in the sense that there has been problems with the
availability of teachers or nurses and that beneficiaries may be able to take care of routine maintenance
- 8 -



only (but not periodic maintenance). However, staffing problems have been solved and the infrastructure
are operating and providing services. Community participation, although introduced only recently in
Burundi, is a key factor for sustainability, which will be reinforced under BURSAP II. Another positive
factor in favor of sustainability is the involvement of NGOs and local associations which are likely to
continue to provide support to communities in one form or another.
On balance, the sustainability of the project can be rated as "likely".
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Twitezimbere has established itself as an organization well qualified to execute projects for donors,
including the African Development Fund (AfDF) and the UNHCR. IDA financing for a Second Social
Action Project has already been approved, and Twitezimbere will implement the community infrastructure,
community mobilization and administration component of the new project. Twitezimbere's capacity is now
satisfactory; it can rely on improved manuals of technical and financial procedures and it has gained a lot
of experience in contracting and training intermediaries to implement certain activities. With the new
financing available, Twitezimbere should be able to continue to operate in a cost efficient manner.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
As mentioned earlier, based on today's standards, the quality at entry is rated "unsatisfactory". Maybe
because of the very innovative nature of the operation at the time, project preparation was not as complete
as it should have been to enable the Borrower and Twitezimbere to implement the project expeditiously.
7.2 Supervision:
The frequency and scope of supervision by headquarters staff was affected by the security situation. At the
beginning, because of insecurity, Bank staff visited the country only once in about two years. Fortunately,
the Resident Mission (Bank Country Office) provided a continuous presence in the field and maintained
good working relations with Government, Twitezimbere, and other partners involved in the project.
The project had four different task managers in the Bank, who all did a reasonably good job. Government
and Twitezimbere acknowledge that, by and large, the Bank has shown flexibility and a willingness to help
Burundi in the difficult situation that it was experiencing. Particularly noteworthy is the process of project
restructuring, under which both Government and the Bank thought that it would make sense to focus
mainly on the social fund, as a means of providing assistance to the country's poorest population group
affected by the crisis. In this connection, jointly with Twitezimbere, the Bank developed and agreed with
Govermment on an action plan which helped to put the social action program on track. Thereafter, the
Bank was very supportive of Twitezimbere's efforts to work with communities, local associations and
NGOs in the execution of sub-projects.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance can be rated as "satisfactory" .
9-



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
It seems that Government did not participate fully in project design and preparation (project preparation
was basically done by two consultants with some minimal contribution by the initial staff of the
Management Unit - MU - of Twitezimbere). Given the innovative nature of the project, it is likely that at
the time the Government followed the lead provided by the Bank.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Under normal circumstances, the extremely slow start of the project would indicate a lack of commitment
to the project of both Government and Twitezimbere. However, as mentioned earlier, the main reason for
the unsatisfactory perfornance at the beginning of the project was the country situation; understandably,
the Government had other things, than project implementation to worry about.
In any event, with the resumption of disbursements in June 1997, the project was definitely viewed as a
useful instrument to undertake some concrete actions in favor of the population, all the more so that other
donors had withdrawn their assistance. The project and Twitezimbere had the full support of Government,
who did not interfere with its day-to-day operations and provided the agreed counterpart funds on time.
At the beginning of implementation, neither the Government nor Twitezimbere had a clear strategy on how
to best carry out the project. It is only at a later stage that all parties involved could decide what type of
actions would have the maximum impact in view of the country context. For example, what should be the
priority projects and their specifications, how should the priority ones be replicated and implemented
quickly, the roles of the different actors, the planning of activities, and what should be the monitoring and
evaluation procedures.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the executing agency, Twitezimbere, has varied over time.
In 1994/1995 project staff did not have the capacity to process all the requests from communes and/or
community groups and make implementation arrangements with the projects potential development
partners (SMEs, local consulting firms, and NGOs). Project staff had very little experience in social fund
activities and moved along on a trial and error basis. The administration and finance side of Twitezimbere
was particularly weak; accounts were not properly kept, payments to suppliers and contractors were
delayed and financial audits were qualified.
The situation began to improve considerably, when Twitezimbere contributed to the preparation of an
action plan which included the following commitments and targets:
*  By end 1995, at least 20 sub-projects will have been implemented, with a commitment from
Twitezimbere to be working on an additional 50 sub-projects (signature of "protocoles d'accord" with
NGOs).
* Commitment from the Government and Twitezimbere to work with international as well as national
NGOs, at least in the start-up phase of the project, to implement sub-projects rapidly.
- 10-



*  Revision of the Operational Manual on sub-project selection and approval, the role of NGOs,
procurement matters, etc.
* The recruitment of international short-term technical assistance to assist during the start-up phase.
*  Ensuring that a proper accounting system is in place and that payments to suppliers/contractors are
made in a timely fashion.
* Recruitment of a local engineer.
*   Replacement of the Head of administration and finance.
Subsequently, following the appointment of a new project director in late 1995, Twitezimbere implemented
most of the action plan. A new head of administration and finance was recruited; improvements were made
in accounting and the financial audits for 1997 and 1998 were unqualified. The Operational Manual was
revised and improved, and Twitezimbere embarked upon an important program of infrastructure
construction and rehabilitation in almost every part of the country, with results well in excess of the
appraisal estimates.
Twitezimbere has implemented the social action program very efficiently. Annex 3 shows that
Twitezimbere achieved unit costs of construction per square meter of schools and health centers lower than
those of other projects in Burundi; also, its administrative costs or project management costs, expressed as
a percentage of disbursements, have been lower than those of many social funds in Africa.
The main feature of this project is definitely the dedication and courage of Twitezimbere staff who
continued to operate in basically the whole country under very difficult circumstances. This has also been
the case for many NGOs/associations, but not for all other partners. As an example, some sub-projects
had to be executed by artisans (tdcherons) because small-scale enterprises were not willing to work in
those sub-project areas, which were nevertheless regularly visited by Twitezimbere staff.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Considering, in particular, the dedication and courage shown by Twitezimbere staff to respond to the needs
of rural communities in a crisis situation, the overall borrower performance can be rated as "highly
satisfactory".
8. Lessons Learned
The lessons learned through the successful implementation of this project were used in the preparation of
the Second Social Action Project (BURSAP II), and some of a more technical nature were also already
applied towards the end of BURSAP I.
The most important lesson from the BURSAP I is that, in a country in a state of crisis and where insecurity
is rampant, this type of demand driven project at the village level may still be implemented and build up
community solidarity that could, eventually, contribute to national reconciliation and help the country to
graduate to a "post-conflict" status. Achieving that through infrastructure may not be the best and only
way to do it; but, at least experience shows that it can be done through infrastructure, provided that the
project is based on a simple design for delivering urgently needed support quickly, taking into account the
limited local capacity for project execution. A social fund is probably a good instrument for intervening in
a "in-conflict" or "post-conflict" country. Another related lesson is that in the recruitment of staff for a
project management unit dealing with communities at the village level, it is important to select individuals
with the right qualifications and experience, who are not politically motivated, who have the right personal
- 11 -



characteristics to be effective leaders, and who are dedicated and courageous enough to be willing to work
in the field despite the insecurity.
A second lesson is that even a well designed and implemented social fund is not a panacea for poverty
reduction, if unforeseen circumstances lead to a deterioration of economic and social conditions in the
whole country. However, the importance and significance of its localized, beneficial impact should not be
underestimated.
A third lesson, drawn to some extent from the project and confirmed from numerous Bank studies, is the
importance of true community participation in assuring the timely contribution by beneficiaries to the
sub-project costs as well as the maintenance and continued operation of Bank-financed infrastructure. The
project responded to requests from the population, but it is not obvious that those requests always
represented the priorities of the population, who might have been influenced by communal administrators or
NGOs, and may not have necessarily known all the choices available to them. BURSAP II seeks to
improve community participation in the selection, financing and management of the infrastructure
sub-projects and in the delivery of social services.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Globally, the Government is very satisfied with the project and the performance of Twitezimbere, who
worked under extremely difficult conditions. The project has been very well received by the population
who values the improvement in its living conditions brought about by the infrastructure
construction/rehabilitation (schools, health centers and water supply). The project did pioneer work in
poverty reduction, at a time when it was not yet a priority of the World Bank. Thanks to the priority
survey, Burundi now has statistical information on access to certain types of infrastructure, which is useful
to rank communes according to their poverty level. Government believes that there is no need to try to
reinvent the wheel, and that future actions should be guided by the achievements of BUJRSAP I.
Government is looking forward to the implementation of BURSAP II and hopes that it will perform even
better than the first project.
The executing agency, Twitezimbere, is also satisfied with the role it played to improve the access of the
population to basic social infrastructure. Its only regret is that it has not been able to process and finance
all the requests that it has received, and it hopes to complete the job under BURSAP II. Conditions in the
field have been very difficult during project implementation, and at times people were wondering whether
Twitezimbere staff were in their right mind to carry on with their activities. The collaboration with the
Bank has been excellent. Twitezimbere is pleased with the way the Bank has been listening-in to their
problems and responding expeditiously to their requests, for no-objection for example.
(b) Cofinanciers:
The African Development Fund (AfDF) credit for a "Poverty Reduction Project" financed the
income-generating activities sub-component of the BURSAP I. The following paragraphs are comments
provided by staff of the African Development Bank (AfDB).
When the AfDF project was appraised in 1993, micro-credit was given a particular importance in the
allocation of the project resources - about 80 percent of the total project cost. The AfDF has financed 706
individual and/or collective micro-projects in various sectors, such as agriculture, livestock, craft, and the
processing of agricultural products for a total of BIF 601.2 million (the project started only in 1997 with
- 12 -



periods of suspension of disbursements). Beneficiaries of the project are mainly former, deflated civil
servants, unemployed people and farmers. From that point of view, the project has been able to reach the
target population and grass-roots associations in rural areas where the level of poverty is especially high.
However, results could have been better if the crisis and the deterioration of economic conditions had not
considerably reduced the possibilities for the organization of production at the level of the population.
Besides, the recovery level of micro-credits appears to be low (around 74%) and does not allow the proper
functioning of a revolving fund for the principal beneficiaries; this constitutes an important obstacle to the
objective of establishing a sustainable micro-finance system. However, the establishment of this fund for
micro-credits allowed some micro-enterprises to operate and to have access to fnancing from other donors.
The Management Unit (MU) of the project has been strengthened and equipped, and is now operational; its
staff has been trained. On the other hand, the training of intermediary structures and grass-roots
associations has been achieved only partially while the needs remain huge. The institutional reinforcement
of the Management Unit (MU) did not give rise to any problem. However, the organizational and
operational weakness of civil society and intermediary structures (associations and groups) constitute a real
handicap to undertake viable actions, particularly in the context of insecurity.
The collaboration with the World Bank has been excellent and regular dialogues have taken place between
the task managers of the BURSAP I and the Poverty Reduction Project.
The project experience shows that there are a number of prerequisites to a microcredit operation: an
efficient regulatory context, a favorable economic environment, strong and efficient intermediary structures
(the withdrawal of COOPECs and their lethargy have hindered the development of the project; and classic
commercial banks are not equipped for this kind of micro-credit operations). Moreover, in the case of the
project, the total amount for the microcredit was oversized (approximately US$ 5 millions), not in terms of
needs, but more to the fact that the revolving character of the microcredit had not been taken into
consideration.
Taking into account the situation described above, it has been decided to reduce the size of the micro-credit
coomponent from 3.6 million UA to 1.0 million UA, and to reallocate the difference to employment
generating activities (construction of social infrastructure). The amendment of the loan agreement is being
processed. This reallocation will facilitate the acceleration of funds rotation at the beneficiaries' level and
help to find out about the experience of local associations in financial intermediation. If these
modifications are approved, the project could be better executed. The legal regulatory context of
micro-credits remains a priority (a study is planned), and the Government needs to decide on the future use
of the amounts that are repaid by the beneficiaries.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The ICR mission interviewed members of four NGOs and local communal associations with offices in
Bujumbura. Obviously, such a small sample is not representative of that group; nevertheless, those
interviews provide some insight into what NGOs and local associations think of the project and
Twitezimbere. The participation of a local association, which regroup the natives of a commune, in the
development process is an interesting example in the Burundi context of the solidarity that exists between
those that have found jobs in Bujumbura and other cities, and those that have remained in the commune.
Apparently, communes for which there is an active local association have experienced relatively few
problems.
- 13 -



By and large, the NGOs and local associations were able to work in the field despite the insecurity, and
they also confirmed that the completed infrastructures have not been destroyed or damaged. On balance,
their evaluation is very positive. They like the fact that Twitezimbere could finance sub-projects scattered
throughout the country, close to the rural population. They also like the participatory approach of the
project, with the requirement that beneficiaries make a contribution to the investment costs in the form of
local materials or labor, although this meant that the implementation schedule of sub-projects had to be
adjusted to the capacity of the beneficiaries to deliver their contribution. At first, they had some difficulty
with the procedures to be followed, but they got used to them and managed to adjust, all the more so that
Twitezimbere has been very flexible. Some, but not all, mentioned that certain cost items were not taken
into account by Twitezimbere and that payments were sometimes delayed compared to the disbursement
schedule in their contract with Twitezimbere. The high inflation rate in Burundi is a problem regarding the
delay of 90 days for the validity of bids (although nobody mentioned it, it must be an even bigger problem
for the fixed price contracts). The question of housing for the schools and health centers personnel was
also raised, and there were other suggestions for opening up the list of eligible sub-projects (alphabetization
centers, playgrounds, and small markets to generate revenues for the population). Generally, NGOs and
local associations believe that beneficiaries should be able to take care of routine maintenance, but will
need additional financing for periodic maintenance. Only one organization interviewed was involved with
micro-credits and it was a failure; the beneficiaries disappeared to a neighboring country, and the
organization had to repay the micro-credits on their behalf.
All the persons interviewed paid tribute to the work and dedication of Twitezimbere staff.
10. Additional Information
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Indicator                             SAR/       Actual
Operational
Manual
Component Al
Number of sub-proiects comlieted (infrastructures) of which:  _ _
Schools                                                                 256
Health Centers                                                           52
Water Supple                                                             52
Water spring sources                                                    194
Others                                                                   12
Sub-total of sub-proiects completed                            260         566
Number of emploMent generated (person/day) (in '000s)         450        1.685
Number of direct beneficiaries
- Number of beneficiaries of Schools (in '000s)                 -          153
- Number of beneficiaries of Health Centers (in '000s)                     878
- Number of beneficiaries of Water Supply sub-projects, incl.   -          253
water sprine sources (in '000s)
Sub-total beneficiaries (in '000s)                             38*        1.284
% of women among direct beneficiaries                           60          80
ComDonent A2   XIX
Develot an action Rlan to facilitate NGO coordination (Year 2)  Yes        No
Component B
Finalize results from Household Budget Surveys (EBC) (Year 1)  Yes         No
Complete analysis of EBC, census, and other data for identifying  Yes      No
tar2et vulnerable groups (Year 1)
Begin priority survey (PS) (Year 1)                            Yes        Yes**
Analyze PS (Year 2)                                            Yes         No
Begin integrated survey (IS) if agreed during mid-term review of  Yes      No
proiect ((Year 3)
I Analyze IS (Year 4)                                            Yes        No
* At appraisal, the number of beneficiaries had been grossly underestimated. Actual numbers of
beneficiaries are based on the following averages: (i) 600 beneficiaries per school (50 students per
classroom; 6 classrooms per school; and two shifts); (ii) 16 000 beneficiaries per health center; (iii)
from 3 000 to 6 000 beneficiaries per water supply sub-projects, depending on the length of the
network and the number of standpipes; and (iv) 100 beneficiaries per water spring source.
** Done in 1998-1999
- 15 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
A. Social Action Prograrn         11.84           10.03             85
B. Poverty Monitoring              2.13            0.67             31
C. Management & Implementation     1.31            1.81            138
D. PPF                             0.40            0.37             92
Total Project Costs               15.68           12.88             82
Total Financing Required          15.68           12.88             82
-A. Social Ac>tion Program  n ~                  -62 - - T--4,-3-42  -   1-65-
B. Poverty Monitoring              469             332             71
C. Management & Implementation     289             665            230
D. PPF                               85             94            110
Total Project Costs               3,463           5,433           157
- 16 -



Pro-ect Costs b Procurement Arran ements Ap raisal Estimate (US$ million e uivalent)
1. WOrkS                        0.00           1.70          0.60          0.00           2.30
(0.00)        (1.40)         (0.40)        (0.00)         (1.80)
2. GOOdS                        1.00           1.50          3.10           0.00          5.60
(1.00)        (0.80)         (1.40)        (0.00)         (3.20)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          6.70           0.00          6.70
(0.00)        (0.00)         (4.40)        (0.00)         (4.40)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.70           0.0(          0.70
Incremental Operating          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.60)         (0.0()         (0.60)
costs
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.40           0.0(           0.40
PPF Refinancing                (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.40)         (0.0())       (0.40)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                        1.00           3.20          11.50          0.00          15.70
=                              (1.00)         (2.20)        (7.20)         (0.00)        (10.40)
Proiect Costs by Procurement Arrangements ActualLatest Estimate (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                        0.00           6.64          3.13          0.00           9.77
(.0)         (5.31)        (.50)          (0.00)        (7.81)
2. GOOdS                        0.16           0.15          0.49           0.00          0.80
(0.16)        (0.12)         (0.39)        (0.00)         (0.67)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          0.70           0.00           0.70
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.56)        (0.00)         (0.56)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          1.61           0.00           1.61
Incremental Operating          (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.29)         (0.00)         (1.29)
costs
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
PPF Refinancing                (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                        0.16           6.79          5.93           0.00          12.88
_____________________      (0.16)         (5.43)        (4.74)         (0.00)        (10.33)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 17 -



Project Financing By Component (in US$ million equivalent)
A. Social Action     6.82    5.02             7.     2.22*            113     44
Program
B. Poverty           2.12    0.01             0.61    0.06            29      600
Monitoring
C. Management&       1.02    0.29             0.89    0.92            87     317
Implementation
PPF                 0.40        -             0.37    -               92        -
Total               10.36    5.32             9.69    3.20            93      60
* Actually, about 75% of this amount represents the contribution by beneficiaries in the form of local materials.
A. Social Action     1,506     1,109           3,681   661*            244       60
Program
B.Poverty             468        2             318     14    |         68       700
Monitoring
C. Management&        225       64             411    254              182      397
Implementation
PPF                    88        -             94       -              107
Total                2,287     1,175           4,504  929              197       79
* Actually, about 75% of this amount represents the contribution by beneficiaries in the form of local materials.
- 18 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The Staff Appraisal report (SAR) did not include any economic analysis of the project.
In connection with the preparation and appraisal of the follow-up project (Second Social Action project or
BURSAP II), a cost effectiveness analysis of the social action project (BURSAP 1) was carried out. A
cost-benefit analysis is not feasible because of the difficulty of measuring benefits in a rural economy
where data are scarce and where goods, services, and labor are often not traded and therefore are difficult
to value in money terms.
The analysis of costs shows that the social action project, the BURSAP I, has generally achieved unit costs
of construction and percentage costs of administration lower than those of comparable projects. This
suggests that the BURSAP I has been a highly cost efficient project.
The table below shows that the project achieved lower unit costs of construction, per square meter, of
primary schools, health centers, and secondary schools, than other projects in Burundi.
-19 -



Comparison of Unit Costs of Construction of Community Infrastructures:
BURSAP I - Twitezimbere versus other Projects
Implement    Type of       Net Costs      Local     Gross   Surface  Unit Costs   Unit
ing       infrastruc     (net of     Partici-    Costs    Built    (sq. m.)    Costs
Agency        ture      supervision     pation      (in    (sq. m.)     (in       US$
)       (in million   million          thousands   (sq m)
(in million    FBu)      FBu)                FBu)
FBu)
UNHCR    Primary             24,0          0       24,0    408.00      58,8       130.72
ISchool
ARP        Primary           23,4          0       23,4    505.76      46,3       102.98
school__
(Austrian   Health center    13,6          0       13,6    186.03      73,1       162.44
NIGO)                                      
Secondary        21,8          0       21,8    466.34      46,5       103.46
schoolI (1
BPE        Primary           25,0          0       25,0    432.00      57,9       128.60
I School
(Public    Communal          18,0          0        18,0    328.00     54,9       121.95
Agency)    School
CEPBU      Primary           35,0        3,8       38,8    542.00      71,7       159.29
shool_
(Religious  Health            74.0         8.1     82,1    786.00    104,5        232.23
NGO)         Center
Twitezimb  Primary             10.6        1.9      12.5   432.00      28,9        64.35
ere*       school
Health center      12.4        1.4       13.8   122.00     72.1       160.27
Secondary          11.3        2.1       13.4   520.00     25,8        57.33
school (first
level)      I
The cost comparison assumes that each type of infrastructure is homogeneous and does not vary with the
executing agency.
Dollar values have been calculated using the exchange rate FBu 450=$US I for the period covered by the
table.
* Net costs and total costs are the average costs of construction cited in the technical audit for the social
infrastructure mentioned above.
The weighted-average cost of administration (AC) of the BURSAP I, over 1995-97, as a percentage of
project disbursements, was about 8% (see table below). This is significantly lower than the 13% cost in
Rwanda, the 17% cost in Eritrea and the 30% cost in Zambia. The cost of administration is probably also
below the comparable costs in the social funds in Burkina Faso, Angola, and Mauritania. However,
Senegal and Malawi appear to have achieved even lower costs of administration.
Some difficulties in comparability arise from differences in what is included in the cost of administration.
In the case of Zambia, the administrative costs include costs for training, capacity building, micro-project
launch workshops, and field appraisals.
A better measure of the cost-effectiveness of the project is obtained when the ratio of administrative
expenditures to project disbursements is computed as the average over the life of the project. A
weighted-average has been calculated in order to take into account the variable level of administrative costs
-20 -



according to the different phases of the project.
Comparison of Administrative Costs (AC) of Several Social Funds in Africa
Data    AC/Total  AC/Disbur  Average,    Weighted
for     costs, %    sment %          %        Average,
Senegal,     96-99                     4.40
Malawi        97-98                     4.50
Zambia        92-98                   29.89                       _
Rwanda        95-98                             14.21           12.57  _
Burkina       92-97                     8.89
Agzetip) 
Niger         91-97       4.84          6.32
Nigetip
Angola                                 18-20    _       _         _
Eritrea       96-98                    17.15
Mauritania   93-98       10.4
Amextipe
Mali          92-98                     7.7
92-98       __  _ __    __ _  __    __ _a_  _    I__  _ _    _ _ _ _
AC: Adminstrative costs (project management costs)
Please note that the definition of administrative costs varies between projects.
Senegal: the ratio was obtained using estimated disbursements for 1999.
Malawi: Figures were only available for 1997 and 1998.
Zambia: Administrative costs are high because they include capacity building, additional staff
for centralized responsibilities, and task assistants for regional officers.
Burundi and Rwanda: Two types of ratios were calculated here. The simple average of
administrative/disbursement ratios for consecutive years and a weighted average across
consecutive years to account for the different volume of administrative costs.
Niger: The expenses of the Nigetip have been used as an estimate of operating costs. Total
project costs includes non-IDA contributions.
Eritrea: The Community Development Fund Program is a multi-donor project and its
administrative costs were funded by the Government of Eritrea. There is no indication of the
administrative costs linked to IDA funds.
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a)M issions:                                                           _____________________;__________
Stage Of Project Cycle               No. of Person anid Seciaty                  Pefomace Rating
(.g.   2 Economists, l FS,< etc)     imp     taton       D Oevelopmendrt 
Identification/Preparation
11/1989                        1   Country officer
2    Consultants
02/1990                        1   Public Health Specialist
05/1990                        3   Economist
I   Financial Analyst
I   Public Health Specialist
I   Statistician
I   Consultant (Employment)
I   Consultant (Redeployment)
I   Consultant (Informal sector)
1   Consultant (Sociologist)
12/1990                        3   Economist
I   Public Health Specialist
I   Consultant (Sociologist)
I   Consultant (Education planning)
10/1991                        1   Division Chief
2    Economist
I    Statistician
2    Consultants (Sociologist)
05/1992                        3   Economist
I    Statistician
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/92                          3   Economist
I   Statistician
2    Consultants (Sociologist)
Supervision
09/1993                         1  Economist                              U                  U
12/1994                        1  Economist                               U                  U
09/1995                         1  Task Team Leader                       U                  U
I  Consultant (Social Funds)
04/1996                         I  Task Team Leader                       U                  U
I  Consultant
-22 -



06/1997                        1  Task Team Leader                       U                  U
I  Consultant (Social Funds)
12/1997                        1  Task Team Leader
I  Statistician
05/1998                        1  Task Team Leader (Economist)           S                  S
I  Statistician
I  Financial Analyst
3  Operations Officers
10/1998                        1  Task Team Leader (Economist)           S                  S
I  Socio-Economist
I  Statistician
3   Operations Officers
02/1999                        1  Task Team Leader (Economist)           S                  S
I  Social Scientist
I  Statistician
3  Operations Officer
06/1999                        1  Task Team Leader (Economist)           S                  S
I  Statistician
1  Social Scientist
3  Operations Officers
10/1999                        1  Task Team Leader (Economist)           S                  S
ECD Specialist
Statistician
Community Participation/Govt.
Relations
Procurement specialist
ICR
04/2000                        1   Consultant
1   Language Program Assistant
(b) Stajf.F
Stage of Project Cycle             _       AcULatest Estimate
._______________           _ L     No. Staff weeks               US$ (,OOO)
Identification/Preparation                  80                        379.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                    164.0                        219.6
Supervision                              154.9                        285.9
ICR                                       23.3                         59.5
Total                                    422.2                        944.1
-23-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
0 Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
X Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
X Institutional Development               0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
O Gender                           O H *SUOM O N O NA
O Other (Please specify)
I Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Oi Other (Please specify)
-24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
 Lending                                           OHS OS *U OHU
F Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
F Preparation                                       OHS OS  OU  O HU
F Government implementation performance             O HS OS   0 U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  OU   O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
-25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
I. Staff Appraisal Report No. 11167-BU, dated April 20, 1993.
II. Project Appraisal Document No. 19484-BU, dated July 7, 1999.
III. Development Credit Agreement dated June 10, 1993.
IV. Aide-Memoires from November 1989 to October 1999.
V. Audit technique 1998, TWITEZDMBERE a.s.b.l., Bermd Dobberstein, Ingenieur-Conseils en
collaboration avec CURDES, Centre Universitaire de Recherche pour le Developpement Economique et
Social
* Volume I: Evaluation technique et socio-6conomique des projets d'infrastructures realises par
Twitezimbere.
* Volume 2: Constat bas6 sur les enqu6tes relatives a ces infrastructures:
- Visite des constructions
- Entrevues avec les autorites administratives
- Entrevues avec les ONG, PME, Bureaux d'etudes ou Consultants Independants
* Volumes 3 & 4: Entrevues avec les beneficiaires des projets.
VI. Twitezimbere - Rapport Annuel d'Activit6: Exercice 1999
-26 -



Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
REPUBLIOUE DU BURUNDI
PROJET D'ACTION SOCIALE/TWITEZIMBERE
CREDIT 2494-BU
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET
Mars 2000
-27 -



INTRODUCTION
1.    Le gouvernement du Burundi et l'Association Intemationale de Deve1oppement (IDA) ont
conclu en date du 10 juin 1993 un accord de credit pour le financement d'un projet de developpement
pour un montant de 7,5 millions de DTS.
2.    Concu dans le contexte de la dimension sociale de l'ajustement (DSA), le projet denomme
<<Projet d'actions sociales (BURSAP)> avait comme objectif principal d'aider les populations a faible
revenu a ameliorer leurs conditions de vie, notamment par la mise en ceuvre de petits projets
gen6rateurs de revenus, la creation d'emplois temporaires ou durables, I'am6lioration de l'acces a de
meilleurs services sociaux ainsi que des infrastructures de meilleure qualit6.
3.    Le contexte social, politique et economique qui a caracterise le Burundi A partir de 1993, date
de demarrage du projet, n'a cependant pas favorise la mise en place du projet. Au contraire, la crise
dans laquelle le pays a et6 plonge a contribue A la deterioration des conditions de fonctionnement
notamment A cause de la g6neralisation de l'insecurite A travers le pays durant les premieres annees du
projet, de la destruction des infrastructures consecutive a la guerre; etc.
I.    OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
4.     Tel que defmi par I'accord de credit, le projet s'etait fix6 pour mission la lutte contre la
pauvrete a travers les objectifs ci-apres:
(i)   ameliorer les conditions de vie de la population par la creation d'emplois;
(ii)  encourager le montage par les beneficiaires d'activites perennes generatrices
de revenus;
(iii)  soutenir les communautes de base dans la r6habilitation et ou la construction
d'infrastructures socio-economiques;
(iv)  developper la capacite locale par la promotion des Petites et Moyennes
Entreprises (PME), I'amelioration des potentialites des ONGs, 1'encadrement
des b6ndficiaires;
(v)   suivre l'evolution du niveau de vie des populations par la realisation
d'enqu8tes.
5.    Afm de repondre a ces objectifs, le projet avait deux composantes: le programme d'actions
sociales proprement dit et le suivi des conditions socio-economiques des populations a travers des
enquetes aupres des menages.
II.    EXECUTION DU PROJET
6.    Ce projet, dont la preparation avait d6but6 en 1990, a e mis en vigueur le 7 Octobre 1994. La
date de cl6ture qui etait prevue initialement pour 31 Decembre 1997 a et6 prorogee au 31 Decembre
1999.
7.    N'eussent 6te le demarrage tardif du projet, I'embargo impose au Burundi en Aofit 1996, suivi
-28 -



de la suspension par le Bailleur des decaissements deux mois apres, le projet aurait di etre execut6 dans
les delais prevus et atteindre pleinement ses objectifs.
8.    En effet, ce programme aurait dfi effectivement demarrer en 1994; cependant, la conjoncture
politique et sociale qui a prevalu au pays, des Octobre 1993, n'a pas permis au projet de fonctionner
comme prevu. Ceci explique notamment la faiblesse ou presque I'absence des realisations durant les
trois premieres annees du projet (1993-1995).
9.     Le present projet d'action sociale a e execute dans le cadre d'une convention signee entre le
gouvemement du Burundi et I'agence d'execution (I'Association Sans But Lucratif denommr e
<iTWITEZIMBERE,,).
10.   De m8me, la realisation des projets passait par un systeme de partenariat avec les ONGs
presentes sur terrain, qui etaient chargees de l'ex6cutlon, et rapproche adoptee par le programme fut
l'approche par la demande.
m. RESULTATS DU PROJET
A.    Composante << Suivi des conditions socio-economiques des populations >>
11.   Cette composante visait a mettre en place un systeme de suivi permettant d'obtenir des donnees
n6cessaires sur la condition sociale et economique des menages, sur l'acces aux prestations sociales et
sur l'evolution qualitative de la pauvrete.
12.   Ce volet qui devait etre execute au debut du projet n'a pu M'mre qu'a partir de 1997, soit apres
un retard de 4 ans, presque a la fm du projet. En effet, tenant compte des conditions insuffisantes de
faisabilite du volet, la mission de la Banque mondiale de septembre 1995 a dui reorienter le projet en
procedant notamment i la suspension de ce volet.
13.   Le retard dans l'execution de ce volet << suivi de la pauvret6 o a negativement influe sur les
realisations du projet en g6neral par le fait que la composante << programme d'action sociale > se
trouvait, ipso facto, depourvue des donnees essentielles pour le ciblage de ses zones d'interventions.
14.   Neanmoins, l'accomplissement de ce volet, meme a la fin du projet, constitue une source
importante d'informations pour le decideur en matiere de suivi des conditions de vie des populations.
La base de-donnees issue de ces enquetes servira a orienter les programmes a venir.
15.   Tenant compte de la duree plus ou moins longue allouee a la conception, collecte, traitement et
analyse des donn6es, le gouvemement souhaiterait que les methodologies soient revues et que les etudes
s'6tendent sur des periodes raisonnables et permettent ainsi une utilisation rapide. En effet, l'enqu6te
prioritaire lancee en fm d'ann6e 1997, n'a pas encore abouti aux resultats dfimitifs en ce debut d'ann6e
2000.
B.    Composante < Programme d'actions sociales >
a) Resultats quantitatifs
16.   Pour la composante << Programme d'actions sociales >>, quatre axes d'intervention avaient et6
retenus, a savoir: (i) les activites gen6ratrices de revenus, (ii) l'amelioration des infrastructures
-29 -



economiques, (iii) la restauration et la construction d'infrastructures sociales et (iv) le developpement
des ONGs locales.
17.   II est necessaire de souligner que le premier volet << activites generatrices de revenus >>, a e
pris en charge par la Banque Africaine de Developpement (BAfD). II ne fera pas par consequent I'
objet de l'analyse actuelle. Le present rapport ne concerne que la partie financee par la Banque
mondiale .
18.    Concemant les volets << Amelioration des infrastructures economiques et la restauration et
construction des infrastructures sociales >>, et se r6ferant au tableau des realisations et d'impact du
programme au 31 Decembre 1999, le gouvernement est, de maniere generale, satisfait du niveau des
realisations du projet.
19.    Ainsi, dans le domaine des infrastructures sociales, il apparait que le projet a connu une
performance relativement bonne. Le niveau des realisations est surtout appreciable en ce qui conceme
la construction des ecoles. Quant aux centres de sante, un taux de realisation relativement faible est
observable, soit 14 % de l'ensemble des 372 infrastructures realisees (sources am6nag6es non
comprises).
20.    S'agissant des infrastructures economiques, les resultats sont plut6t negligeables par rapport A
1'ensemble des realisations du projet (3,2%).
21.    A cette etape d'evaluation, on observe une enorme distorsion entre les interventions au niveau
des infrastructures scolaires et les autres sortes d'infrastructures. De ce fait, on constate qu'au niveau
des infrastructures economiques et sanitaires, un effort consid6rable reste toujours a consentir compte
tenu surtout du fait que la plupart de ces infrastructures a e  d6truite pendant la crise et que
malheureusement, cette situation persiste.
22.    Le gouvemnement reste convaincu que cette distorsion est nee, non pas d'une mauvaise
prestation de l'agence d'execution, mais surtout de la methodologie d'intervention adoptee par le projet
et de l'absence quasi totale de communication entre l'ASBL TWITEZIMBERE et la tutelle.
23.    L'approche par la demande, retenue pour guider les interventions, a sans nul doute pernis au
projet de repondre A des besoins en infrastructures effectivement exprimes par la population
demandeur. Par contre, la faiblesse de la methode reside dans le fait qu'elle a contribue A favoriser les
communautes qui se trouvaient a un degre d'organisation eleve au d6triment de celles qui ne l'etaient
pas encore. De plus, le niveau d'information des populations etant different d'une region A une autre,
le rythme de flux des demandes en depend.
24.    Enfm, le demier volet << developpement des ONGs locales >> a ete simplement neglige. II
apparait A travers les differents rapports que le volet formation n'a pas connu d'engouement au niveau
du projet.
b) Resultats aualitatifs
25.    Qualitativement, les resultats obtenus concernent principalement la qualite des ouvrages qui est
en general bonne, l'iimpact du projet et son niveau d'acceptabilite par les populations beneficiaires.
26.    Les projets finances dans le cadre du BURSAP ont eu un impact tres positif sur les conditions
- 30 -



de vie des populations beneficiaires. Ils sont largement acceptes par la population et aussi dans la
majorite fonctionnels et en service.
IV. BILAN DES ACTIONS DE L'AGENCE D'EXECUTION TWITEZIMBERE
27.   Les evenements malheureux qu'a connu l'association << TWITEZIMBERE1>> au demarrage du
projet ont sans nul doute ete a l'origine des contre-performances enregistrees durant les trois premieres
annees du projet.
28.    La situation s'est cependant amelioree A partir de la mise en place de la nouvelle direction en
1996. L'unite de gestion du projet enregistre actuellement un niveau satisfaisant de maitrise des
techniques de gestion et de suivi du projet .
29.   Le gouvernement souhaite nanmnoins une concertation plus accrue entre l'ASBL
TWITEZIMBERE et le ministere de tutelle, afin de permettre a ce demier de mieux coordonner les
activites du projet, notamment par une plus grande transparence dans la programmation et l'execution
des travaux et la transmission rapide des rapports periodiques.
30.   Aussi pour assurer la perennite de I'ASBL, meme en I'absence de l'appui du gouvernement, il
est recommande a I'ASBL TWITEZIMBERE de penser deja a la multiplication de ses sources de
financement et aussi de respecter les termes de la convention signee avec le gouvernement, notamment
en ce qui conceme les contributions financieres des membres de l'ASBL au programme.
V.  PERFORMANCES DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
31.   Les performances de l'emprunteur sontjugees satisfaisantes depuis la phase de conception
jusqu'a la fm du projet. En effet, malgre la mauvaise conjoncture economique, politique et sociale qui a
caracterise toute la periode de l'execution du projet, le gouvemement a toujours honore ses
engagements, conformement a la convention signee entre l'emprunteur et I'agence d'execution,
notamment en ce qui conceme la mise A disposition des fonds de contrepartie destines au projet.
VI  PERFORMANCES DE LA BANQUE
32.   La maniere dont la Banque s'est acquitt6e du travail de l' identification et de la preparation du
projet estjugee dans l'ensemble satisfaisante, en raison de l'effort mene pour faire coincider les
objectifs du projet avec les priorites du gouvemement.
33.   II est neanmoins necessaire de souligner que la preparation du projet a perdure, la mise en
vigueur du projet est intervenue au mois d'octobre 1994, soit trois ans de preparation. Peut etre cela
est-il dui au changement frequent de la composition de l'equipe de preparation du projet pendant cette
periode.
34.   Le gouvernement apprecie par contre la qualite de la supervision des equipes de la Banque
principalement caracterisde par un esprit d'ouverture au dialogue et une disponibilite constante tout au
long du deroulement du projet.
VII. COMMENTAIRE GENERAL
35.   D'une manibre generale, la Banque mondiale, I'Unite de Gestion et le Gouvemement du
- 31 -



Burundi ont pu travailler dans un environnement de cooperation, efficace et productif malgre les
contraintes de tous ordres auxquelles ils ont ete constamment soumis.
36.    Le gouvernement du Burundi souhaiterait que les pdriodes de preparation des projets soient les
plus courtes possibles afn d'eviter que les objectifs vises pendant la periode de conception ne subissent
la moindre alteration.
37.    Aux fins de se faire une idee exacte de l'impact du projet sur le plan national, le gouvemement
souhaiterait que soit dressee une carte synoptique presentant tous les projets fmances au titre du
programme d'actions sociales afin de constituer une base de reference pour les interventions futures.
38.    Enfin, des interventions realisees par le projet d'actions sociale, l'on doit constater que le
groupe femmes etjeunes n'a pas beneficie de toute l'attention voulue malgre I'accent particulier qui a
ete porte A ces groupes tel qu'enonc6 dans les objectifs du projet. Cela peut se comprendre a la limite,
en effet, au niveau des criteres de selection des projets, aucun aspect particulier n'a ete pr6conis6 pour
1'eligibilite de ces groupes.
- 32 -



REALISATIONS ET IMPACT DU PROGRAMME NATIONAL
D'ACTIONS SOCLILES (BURSAP 2494 - BU)
Fonds d'Actions Sociales       1994    1995   1996    1997        1998  1999      Total
A. Realisations
(1) Nombre de projets d'infrastructures
realisees:                                   4        58     23        269    212       566
dont:
Infrastructures scolaires                    4        39     21         80    112       256
Centres de sante                                       3      0          5      44       52
Adductions d'eau                                      15      2         20      15       52
Sources amenagees                            -         -       -       158      36      194
Autres                                                 1       0         6       5       12
(2) Decaissements pour projets             113      827      909       1085   1645     4579
d'infrastructures realisees (en milliers
de DTS)
(3) Cout de fonctionnement par rapport    88,0       9,5    9,9        6,7    6,8         -
aux sous/projets (en %)
Cofit de fonctionnement par rapport       11,6       6,9    7,1        5,0    4,8         -
aux depenses totales (en %)
(4) Nombre de protocoles d'accord           14        63     19         56      21      173
signes
Nombre de contrats signes avec les          12        83      69        84      68      316
P.M.E.
Nombre de contrats signes avec B.E ou        7        36      14        12      13       82
Consultants individuels
B. Impact
Nombre de journees de travail finance       24       348     138       437    738         1.685
par le fonds (en milliers)
Nombre de beneficiaires des                  2        23      13        48      67      153
infrastructures scolaires (eleves) (en
milliers)
Nombre des beneficiaires des centres         -       115       3       100    660       878
de sante (population) (en milliers)
Nombre de beneficiaires des adductions       -        75      10       109      59      253
d'eau (popu1ation) (en milliers_
-33 -






2'80                                         4ft9                                                      0            L                                   3'1
/   LKake                   R  W    A    N    D  A                                              310
.~    Kivu
Y                                                       Lake~~~~~~~~~~~Lke  u
g d. _ ~~~~~~~~~o                                        n    I      - 
Bukovu
Butore                          ~~~~~~~Nyc kanazi
BURUDIUNDI 
-   ROADS           ti  j-                                /   t R/                     ;    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kibondo
a    SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES                                            
  NATIONAL CAPITAL                             /                                     <r{T AN ZA NI A
---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                          t-re, 
-~'~-t RIVERS                                  T                                    go
This map was pro duced by the    DE ORAI   RFIR  ~                              \ \       X;+
Map Design Unit of The World Bank.   OF  CONGO                          LlI        ake             
Bung   anzal\     ,
The boundaries, colors, denominations ///hnayki  ......H;
and onyother information shownoan this L,    
mn     map do not imply, on the port of The                                                 I  Nyaz-:>        I                 0         25          50 KILOMETERS
w      World Bank Group, any judgment on                                         |                             /                Io I> XLW              
a      the (ego! status of any territory, or any                                                      -p--)  I                                                       Iu
>  endorsement or acceptance of such                                         J                                              0                    25             50OMILES          r
_   boundaries.   T                                                    A                        S   4 To                                     .                                o
'0                 280                                                2 9 0                /          /       Tigoma    3 oo 3S10 
'0'0                                              I                                    Kigoma       300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



