Doammat of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Rqit No. 11167-BU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUEDI
SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
(ThITEZINBERE)
APRIL 20, 1993
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomosace of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit                         Burundi Franc (FBu)
1990   US$1            -             FBu 171
1991   US$1           =              FBu 200
1992   US$1           =              FBu 213
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIA IONS AND ACRONYMS
ASBL                   Association Sans But Lucratif (Non-Profit Organization)
BA                     Beneficiary Assessment
BURSAP                 Burundi - Social Action Project
CSP                    Country Strategy Paper
COOPEC                 Cooperative d'Epargne  et de  Crddit (Savings and  Loan
Association)
EC                     European Community
FP                     Family Planning
GA                     General Assembly
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
GNP                    Gross National Product
HBS                    Household Budget Survey
ICB                    International Competitive Bidding
iS                    Integrated Survey
ISTEEBU                National Statistical Institute
LCB                    Local Competitive Bidding
LS                     Local Shopping
MIS                    Management Information System
MU                     Management Unit
MP                     Ministry of Planning
NGO                    Non Governmental Organization
OM                    Operational Manual
PEP                    Public Expenditure Program
PS                     Priority Survey
SDA                   Social Dimension of Adjustment
SAC                   Structural Adjustment Credit
SC                     Steering Committee
UNDP                   United Nations Development Program
WFP                    World Food Program
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal nission which visited Bumndi from June 17 to July 8, 1992. The
mission consisted of Messrs and Mnes Beit Mille, Sr econowist (AF3PH), mission kader and task manager,
Alexandre Marc, economist (AFTSP), Lynne Sherburne-Benz, economist (AF3PH), Ghislaine Delaine, demographer
(AFISP), Catherie Buyoya, sociologist (consultant). Mr. Steen Jorgensen (AF6PH) was lead adviser. Peer reviewers
were Mum. Antoine Simonpietri (AFTSP) and Aubrey WilLiams (EXTIE). Contributions are acknowledged from Mmes
Catherine Cross, implementation specialist (consultant), Anne-Marie Goetz, rural credit specialist (consultant), and Ms.
Eileen Muray, finrncial analyst (AF3PH). Messrs Francisco Aguive-Siaa  (AF3DR) and Alain Coliou (AP3PH) are
the Departnent Director and the managing Division Chief, respctively.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
TABLE O COMMNTS
BasicData  ..... i
Credit and Project Summary i.i.......
I. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS                              .I
A. Background.                                                             1
B. The Structural Adjustment Program .1
H. MAJOR SOCIAL AND POVERTY ISSUES.                                               3
A. Poverty and the Social Situ ..ion                                       3
B. Goverunent's Approach and Bani's Role               .5
Ill. THE PROJECT .10
A. Project Objectives and Approach .10
B. Project Description .12
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .15
A.i stitutionalandProcessi Framework .15
B. StatuhsofPreparation .24
V. COSTS, FINANCING AND MANAGEMENT .25
A.Project Costs.25
B.FianingPa .26
C. Pwject Management .27
D. Procurement .27
E. Disbursement .30
F. Accounting, Reporting and AudWng .31
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS.34
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS .34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its conteats may not otherwiso be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



Tables in Main Text
4.1    :     Annual Performance Indicators for Project Monitoring
5.1    :     Project Cost Summary
5.2    :     Accounts Cost Summary
5.3    :     Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
5.4    :     Procurement Arrangements
5.5    :     Disbursement Profile
5.6    :     Allocation of IDA Credit by Disbusement Category
5.7    :     Implementation Schedule
I            Project Insitutional Framerk
n            Poverty Monitoring
m     :      Technical Assistance and Trainn Program
IV    :      Summary Project Costs and Finacing
V            Supavision Plan
VI    :      Estimated Schedule of Disbursemen
VII   :      Selected Documents in the Project File
M -N.                BRD 24302



I
DAM DATA
Burundi            Sub-Saharan
Africa
GNP per capita (1990)           US$ 210             US$ 340
Pation size (1990)              5.4 milion          495 million
Rural areas               94%                67%
Urban areas               6%                 33%
Estmated Popuaion growth
rate In 1991                    2.9%                3.0%
Population density              189 per km2         21 per km2
Total fertility rate            6.8                 6.5
Contraceptive prevaence rate    3%                  6 %
Acdve work force (1991)         2.8 million         198 million
Age dependency ratio            98%                 98%
Gross enrollment rate
(rimary scool)            71%                69%
Life expectancy at birhh        47 years            51 years
Infant mortality rate (1991)    107 per thusand     107 per thousand
Under-five mortality rate (1991)  177 per thousmd   166 per thousand
Food production per capita (91I92)   85             92
(100 = 1979/81)
Daily calorie supply (cal. per person) 1,932        2,120
Prevalence of malnmtition (under 5)  30%            N/A



lBUorrower         Republic of Burundi
Bendtciaries:      Not applicable
Exeafttn Amu:    *Twitezimbere (a non-profit organizatin)
Credit Amout       SDR 7.5 million (US$10.4 million equivalent)
IT¢ms:              Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Qbjecttves:
The main objectives of the project are to: (i) involve larger segments of the population
In the growth process by encouraging a deeper participation of poor individuals in small-
scale productive activities, Oi) improe the living conditions of the population through
employment generation and better social services and infastructure, uiii) foster the
partcipationof local govements and non-govermental agencies in development-related
activities, and (iv) improve government capacity to formulae and implement ecoomic
and socia policies through a better monitoring of the social siuation and a better
knowledge of the paters of poverty in the eountry.
3be Social Action Proum  will be mainly targeted at the poor (especially women and
uuemployedlnderemployed youth) and will support: (a) income geneing activies
through training and technical assistance to hep individuals and groups to launch small-
scale, viable, productive activities In sectors where a demand can be identified or
expected and which have durable real Income gains, (b) rehbliltation of basic social
infrsructure such as primary schools and basic health facilities, (c) enbancement of
small basic economic infastructure such as bridges and feeder roads, (d) promotion of
priority social activities such as family planning, food supplementation and literacy
programs, and (e) developmnt of local NGOs, mainly through technical assistance and
trining. I oe  Ir     f Monfiring Progmm wfll contibute to set up a household and
community survey system to produce solo-economic data necessary for following the
evolution of living standards over time, identifying population groups Aor targeted
assistance, and desigaing and ameing the couty's development strategy to promote
growth among the poor. The component will include the processing and analysis of
existng household budget surveys, targeting vlnerable groups, and launching new
household and commuity surveys. Critical elements of tis component are capacity
buildig for statstic services and demand-diven studies and analysis of the information
collected for improving policies and programs.



Hi
Benft d  Risks:
The project would improve living condions of the poor and vulnerable dwot
impoved productiviy, enhanced access to  enti soia inhdastructur  and potenaly
increased employment opportiies. lhe  beets  would  so spl over in the
communities In which target ous live ough Increased access to local products, beter
education, health and sanitdati services, and other colctive gpods to the producdon of
which targee groups wil be associated. lbe project would also provide an opportunity
for existng local NGOs to expand and for new ones to be created. Finally, trough its
survey and study component, te project will allow the govrnment to improve its
knowledge of poverty and thus Is formulaion of bo  social and macroeconomic policy.
Main risk associaed with the project relae to the low managment capq    of local
NGOs winch will be largely called upon to assist local communities executing sub-
projects, especially Inoome-gentg projects.  To avett this rsk, objective and
carefully desiped sets of sub-project selection criteria have been deinWed and teh l
assistance will be provided for sub-project apr . Strog sub-project supevion, a
ansarent managemen iormaton system, and random auditing of accounts will
enhance management efficiency.  Local NGOs wil be asst  by expeienced
intenational NGOs, so as to upgrade their still low apri  and managing capacities.
Finally, the ristk of excessive interfrence of the gov ert with the mlemention of
the project will be reduced through an innovative ist ona f6amework whereby project
management wfll be contracted by the govrnment to an indepedent non-profit
organiZation.
P oect Cost           (UmaesgS$ million)
Locat       forign         total
Estfmnted Costs
S4cial Action Program     9.1           1.S          10.6
Poverty Mnftoring         0.7           1.2           1.9
ProJect Management        1.0           0.1           1.1
PPF                        0            0.4           0.4
Total Base Costs     10.8            3.2         14.0
Physlcal Contingfncies    0.7           0.3           1.0
Price Contingencas        0.5           0.2           0.7
Total ProJect Costs   12.0         '1            15.
Fimncsmf Plan
IDA                       6.7           3.7          10.4
Govenuentj                5.3            -.3
Total                 12.0            .          1.7
j/ Includes contributifns by governmnt (sow in the fet  of cownterpart fuM  gwenerated by
foreign aid), local comamftfes, ard bensffcEfrfes.
Estimated IDA DIsbursemwts
DRAs Fisal Years     F94   F"    F6    FY9    FY8
Annual               1.4    2.0    2.8    3.4     0.8
Culative             1.4    3.4    6.2    9.6    10.4
Prolect CadMltfon Date:  um 30, 19?



SQCIAL ,AC=X PRQJ1=
$F&EA OUERT
A. B|a&kmund
1.1          With a populton of 5.4 million and an area of 28,000 m2, Buzundi has the
second highest population density in Africa. Despie demographic pressure (2.9% popuation
growth per annum) on already constained land, rural-urban migrtion so far has been limied
and 94% of the populadon i st11 rural. Per capita GNP was about US$210 in 1990, one of
the lowest in the world.
1.2          Agriculture is the main economic acivity contributing half of GDP and 90%
of employment and eport eaings. Coffee is the most Important export crop (80% of tota
exports). Burumdi is self-sufficient in food and food crop production is stable. As a resut,
there is not curreny a significant problem with food secuity, although it is regionally uneven
and Burwndi's high population growth rate threates to undermine this situation in the future.
The manufcturi sector i sil small, accounting for less than 15% of GDP and 5% of
exports in 1990. The public sector dominates m in, energy, and infrastructure and
provides 30% of the county's formal employment.
1.3          The country is confronted wit the following severe development constraints:
(a) strong popubtion pressure, 0) a lack of available agricultur land, (c) excessive
dependence upon coffee, and hence world coffee prices and climatic coitions, (d) a
landlocked shation and dependence upon transportation conditions in neighborig countries,
(e) an excessive role of the state in the economy, in particular via poorly managed public
enterprises, (f) inadequate incentives for prive iniaves, and (g) e*quent outbursts of
ethnic violence which deter ant  ip and private investment.
1.4          After a period of relatively good per.ormance dudng the late 1970s (read GDP
growth averaged 5% during 1978-81), Buunds economic and finnca siaton took a turn
for the worse in 198144 due to sharp deterioration of its terms of trade, expansionary fiscal
and monetary policies, and adverse climatic condions. Real GDP growth declined to less
than 1% durig 1982-84. In 1983, the ext   current account deficit (excluding official
transfers) rose to 17% of GDP and the overall fiscal deficit to 19% of the GDP. The
government responded with interventionist measures and administrative controls which led to
further distortions in the economy.
B. lhe S=OucL I Abnt Pmgm
1.5         In recognition of its failure to correcdy address economic and financial
imbalances and their serous consequences, the government embared in 1985 on a
comprehensive economic refrm program that emphasized stabilization measures. In 1986,
the Bank supported these refom efforts through the first Strucural Adjustmet Credit (SAC).
Ihe prmary goal of this credit was to help the govarnment remove major polcy di ons In



-2 -
five areas: (i) public expenditure management, (i) public entprise sector, (iii) trade and
industi policies, (iv) credit allocation, and (v) giculture Sector policy. Some of the
neasures were only pardally implement (e.g. public expenditzre programming and public
enterpise reom) and were again addressed in SAC 11 (19881992). Addidonally, SAC If
also addressed the ibilowlg Isues: (i) Intrest rate deregulion in the financial sector, (ii)
liberalization of the labor market, and (lii) formulation of a social action program for te most
vulneable semnents of the popuation.
1.6          In the 1986-90 peIod, the gov ent's reform program did not lead to
significant structural changes, in part due to adverse extenl conditions precipitated by the
collapse of world coffee prices (-15% annmally on average). The budget deficit averaged
11.7% of GDP during 1986O 0 and eterna financing averaged 20% of GDP. Although the
oudint of a soci action program was formulated to help the most vulnerable segments of the
population, it was only parily implemented due to lack of political consensus,
misunderstandings on the nature and the magnitude of the issues, and lack of reliable
statistics. On the eccomic front, however, since the 1989 low point (real GDP growth fell
to 1.5%), indicatori suggest a rebound as of 1990 with an increase in real GDP of 3.3%, and
a drop in inflation o 7%. In 1991, public savings were on the rise, proceeds from coffee
exports rose by lo%, and the overall balance of payments surplus exceeded 3% of GDP, due
in part to T.$M60 million in exernal aid. In addition, considerable social change has been
taking plau in Burundi resulting in a more open attitude, especially regarding the private
sector which "ldes well for furter development and growth.
1.7          To complement and build upon the measures already undertaken, the
governent is implementing its next phase of adjustment. The mam measures envisioned in
the 1991-94 PNlicy Framework Paper (PFP) are: (i) supportig private sector development,
(ii) improing public fiances, (ii) replacing credit allocations with indirect instruments for
vnnrollinr b.*k credit, (iv) adopting a more automatic system for exchange rate adjustment,
(v) fully liberalizing current accoun transactions, and (vi) restructuring the public enterprise
sector. In this context, the main objective of the third SAC (approved in June 1992) is to
strengthen the economy's supply rsponse to the adjustment process by further reducing the
role of the state in the economy, and by removing the macroeconomic constraints to private
sector development. To achieve this objective, SAC m will support policy measres in three
reform areas: (i) public resource management reform will focus on reducing the fiscal deficit
by accelerating the restrcturing of the public enterprise sector and reducing wn-
developmental ependitures; Qi) private sector development and export diversification wilh be
promoted through greater liberalization of external transactions, the agricultural sector and
factor market, and reform of regulatory, legal and fiscal systems; and (lii) a social sector
component will promote a more appriope pattern of public expenditure through the
mainteance of a safety net of social expenditure and measures to improve access to basic
health and education services. A program to monitor the impact of the adjustment program
on the living condidons of the population and to follow up the evolution of the social situation
is under preparation, primarily funded through a PPF advance for this project. It will help to
identify target groups and a poverty profile wil be elaborated for each province. This wiUl
facilitate the design of specific operations to assist the most vulnerable segments of the
popuation. Togeter with its economic reform, the government is engaged in a process of
democratizig the political life and aims at a gater equality of opporuities for all ethic
groups.



-3 -
H. MAJOR SOQM AND POVERTIYJUE
A. Povertv and the Social Sitation
2.1          Poverty In Burundi is overwhelmingly a rurad phenomenon with approximately
94% of the country's popuation fbund in the rura sector, the vast majority of which Is
enwged in subsistence agriculture with only limited integration Itgo the cash economy. As
demographic pressures steadily reduce available land per capita and non-agricultural
employment opporuitdes remain slim, prospects for the poor rura population are bleak. The
intensive use of land also reatens the country's natral ecosystem througa soil erosion and
deforestation, fiurher limidng agricultur potential. With urban centers being small and
migration to urban areas limited, the possibilities for fast growth in non-agriculturl
employment remain slim.l/ Despite a apid expansion of primary educatlon during the
1980s, primary enrollment rates have experienced - ignificant decline in the early 1990s.
This may reflect a similar trend throughout sub.ran Africa. While physical access to
health centers is relatively adequate, health problems have been compounded by the AIDS
epidemic. Finally, despite severe population growth problems, conraceptive prevalence rates
remain extremely low.
2.2          Em 1QM= and Incomes. In 1990 (date of the most recent census), 94% of
the working age population are still in the agriculture sector, while only 2% are in
manufacturing znd 3% in the tertiary sector. The agricultural sector is absorbing a growing
proportion of the, 100,000 youths who enter the labor force each year, although much of this
"absorption* is only partW with underemployment quite high. The modern sector
employment represents only about 3% of employment for the entre working age population.
Modern emwployment is concentrated in the capital and dominated by the public (30,000
permanent staff) and parastatal (15,000 regular staff) sectors. As such, the urban, private,
modern sector is still limited (with 30,000 pemanent jobs in 1989). Although overall
reported formal unemployment is low Qess than 12,000), underemployment seems widespread
especially in rural areas. Many indidus in rural areas hold multiple jobs to survive. This
is equally the case among civil servants and urban wage earners and it is one of the main
sources of development of the urban informal sector.
2.3          Earnings in the urban informal sector are only half the level of wages for
permanent workers who average US$100 per month in the modern sector. Incomes associated
with non-wage activities -te vast majority of cases in Burundi- are not well captured, but
they are clearly below the levels of the modern sector, especially in rural areas, even after
taking into account the value of home-consumed production. Mone on is still low in
rura areas (about 20% of total incomes according to a study in 'ne province of Muramvya),
where incomes often do not reach the poverty line and savings are very limited. Gender and
literacy have been found to be two major detmnw_n of the level of income, with both
women and illiterate workers being signiflcandy worse off.
1J    Uitui omw, .iids 6 *1 (Wa WA tlum at = fe anm   e* 3  Wav     *= IS.= thab hil  thd
uvnadt Ia .amgIed Ilgid o U6 anl am sd uaqwfi 3h=u   in X   pad _h t  and poWW   omUi_ to bi aul
ttote D      Isddi od                       t b  t  sdf                ab
doima, iW* 6 psIhAun of du.



-4 -
2.4          With a ble monetary resour   oft  not even raching the amount
necessary to buy basic household goods in the infrmal sector, there is little scope for savings
(as evdeed by the first results of the 1986190 household surves). Still, Burundi befits
from a diverified financial sector for a coury of its size, and there s a network of savipn
and credit coopeives (COOPECs) moblizing rural savings. Credit for the poor is markedly
limited though, and various attempts to cnel popular credit either have failed or are
plagued wih reIimbursement problems. Vaious experimt have shown that the main
obstacles to popular credit have to do with: 0) limited apptaa capacity of fincial
instions, and (i) the lack of basic skills of beneficiaries to formlwate and execute projects.
2.5                           any. The main feature of the education sector in Burundi
in the last decade is the dramatic expansion of the primary school system, In which
enrollments have experienced a 202% increase since 1981/2. With this increase, the gross
enrollment rate is 71% (the net enrollmeut rate is 57%). Demand for primay schooling has
lessened in 1991/92, appareny because of both less new enrollments and heavier dropouts, a
phenomenon witnessed in most sub-Saharan countries and compounded in Burundi by an
outburst of political violence in November 1991 which was followed by a climate of
insecurity. Meanwhile, the promotion rate into secondary education is less than 10%, where
as a result the gross enrollment rate hovers around 6%. Each year, 75,000 students leave
prmry school after having failed (ofte sever  rnes) the exam opening the door to
secondary education. A double shift system was organized in 1982 to improve enrollments,
but did nothing to strengthen the quality of schooling. As a result, the likelihood of falling
back into functional illiteracy Is rather high for those who never make it in secovdary
education. The development of primay school infrastructure is not evenly distnbuted, and
there is a 2:1 ratio between enrollment rates of the best served school district (Bururi) and of
the worse off district (Butara). Regarding female education, parity is almost achieved at the
prinary level and in teacher tainig colleges (45% of enrollments in both cases), but girls
remain a minority in secondary and in higher education (35 and 30%, respetvely).
2.6          Despite progress in education, 75% of the labor force is still illiterate, the
ratio being 84% for women. Although stil generized, iliteracy is regressing, more as the
result of the expansion of primary school than that of literacy ampaigns which are stil
poorly organized. Tbe iliteracy rate falls from 89% for the 60-64 age group to 51% for the
20-24 age group. Vocational ducation for primary and postpmay level youtis is provided
in numerous (approximately 250), scattered, and generally ill-equipped, ill-tffed and poorly
organized centers (notably the 110 'Polyvalent Training Centers"). Most of these centers are
now under the responsibility of the recentdy created Ministry of Craftsmanship, Vocational
Training and Youth. There is no follow-up system to help young graduates find a wage-
earning job or acquire equipment to start their own shop. Apprenticeship, whether under its
taditional form, or formally orgaied, is not developed.
2.7          Poulation- Health and Food Sect. As a result of high ferility rates and
declining infat mortality rates, BuuWndi's population growth rate is high and the population
very young (56% are less than 20). However, life expectancy at birth remains low (47) and
the main health indicators are comparable to those of neihboring East Africa countries,
pointing out a generally weak health status which has been recenly compounded by the AIDS
epidemic. The average nutritional status of the population as measured by the average calorie
intake is close to UN standards, but it is quite unevenly dibutd  and protein-calorie
malnutrition of under-5 children is a serious problem. Physical access to health care, safe
water, and basic sanitation equipme  ;s reatively good by sub-Saharan standards and an



-5 -
extensive network of primary health care ceuers have been put In place. Contraceptive
prevalence is stlt. extremely low O t   3%), however, with both the demad for and the
avaiability of contraceptive products bein concenated in the capital. In 1990, 43% of 55-
59 year-old women are reported having given birth to 8 and more living children (S% have
had no cbildren). A complex arry of ciutual, ocalnd political factors hinders quick
progress in family planning which is needed to curb population pressure.
2.8          Women ad Youth. Thelmpora ceand the fragilty of the status of women
in Burundi has been lehly documented by both UNICEF and USAID. On the one hand,
womne are fully responsible for food producdon, child rearing, household chores, and feedn
the entire family. Additionally, they also maintain the primary role for crop selling and other
income-generating actvities. On the other hand, they are less literate, less educated, and less
informed than men. They are also exposed to pregnancy and delivery health complicaiors
and do not have an equal say in the management of the household resources to whicb they
nevertheless greatly contribute. Likewise, youth entering the labor market lack employment
oppormnities and are at higher social risks because of the growing inability of the traditional
social ervironment to provide socialization through a decent job. With both groups there is a
need to promote necessary changes in mentality and attitudes, primadly vis-&-vis family
planning, health (especially infant health and AIDS), nutrition, sanitation, and environment
concerns, as well as to promote economic opporunities. Unfortunately, there are no
orchestrated acdons to target these strategic -and vulnerable- groups.
2.9          Ouantitatve Data in the Soc  Sectors. Available data and data colection
systems in the country which could be use4 to further the government's understanding of
poverty in Burundi are scarce, scattered, and of uneven quality. rhe National Statistical
institute (ISTEEBU) is the country's major institution for producing economic statistics. Its
role is also to coordinate the production of statistics and insure that this production follows
normative concepts and scientfic methodologies. To fulfill this role ISTEEBU should
normally be consulted by every adminve service or organization which is collectilng and
analyzing data in the country. In reality, however, othe services are carrying out surveys
without informing ISTEEBU or seeking Its advice. The production rate of ISTEEBU is low.
The production of the naonal acunts, the institute's major assignment, has suffered severe
delays. Price indexes, even though regularly released, are produced only for the cities of
Bujumbura and Gitega In a country where the population is mostly living in sural areas.
Apart from gathering data from other government services, whose data is often incomplete
and of questionable quality, ISTEEBU has implemented a series of rural dousehold Budget
Surveys (HBS) from 1986 to 1990, covering the country's 15 rural provinces, and the
Bujumbura survey in 1991. These budget consumption surveys will be utilized for an initial,
although rough, mapping of poverty fur the country.2I
B. Government's Apgroach and Bank's Role
2.10         Public Sgending on Social Sectors. In contrast to many other sub-Saharan
countries, the Government of Burundi has managed to keep social service spending at a high
level during its structural adjustment program. The ordinary budget for education, health and
other social services has increased by 214% in nomlW terms between 1982 and 1992, against
a 249% for the overall currt budget, but this Iatter increase is mostly attributable to the debt
a     Did hfoiom m hmmls .dudm dauh4o.f   an b fud In A==z JY.



-6 -
service, which has risen by 687% during dhe same period. As a net result, the share of socil
services in the non-debt current budget has gone from 27.5% In 1982, up to a peak of 35.4%
in 1990, and hovers at approxiaty 30% since. However remarkable these efoDrts are, they
have not been zufficient to generate better quaity services In education and health, in part
be-ause of the current level of inflation and higL population growth, which have eroded both
the amount and the value of dollas available per end-user. Additionally, an ever greater
proportion of the socia service public budget has been absorbed by salary expenses, reducing
the effciency of the sevices as many essential maerl and functioning costs are nt met.
However, the educan and health minstries have been among the first ones to participate in
public expenditure programing (POP) and the education PFP is already fully operational.
The full integation of PEP and budget procedures should start in 1993 and it is expected that
this progress wiUl allow a better allocation and monitoring of resources within these sectors.
2.11         PaWation and amily Planning Policy. The Govermnent of Burundi and the
Economic and Social Council have placed the problems caused by rapid population growth as
the second national priority for action after national unity because the rapid population growth
rate of 3% has the potential to undermine aI government efforts for the social and economic
development of the country. To address this issue, the government recognizes that family
planning efforts to reduce the high birth rate are essential. To this end, the government has
created a National Population Comaission (CONAPO) with representatives from different
sectors of the economy and an Interde    Technical Group on Population (GTIP).
These groups are responsible for developing a comprehensive population policy by mid-1993
ad overseein its implementation, including coordinatig, following, and evaluating its
tegl. .ion into the socio-economic planning and impletation process within the country.
The government has also established a family planning coordination bureau within the
Minstry of Health to elaborate a medium-term action program (1992-1996) which is expected
to be followed by an operational program. Another inteing development is the revision of
a key judicial instrument, the code of rights and obligations, and the cleaning up of the many
gender biases which chaacrized this instrument until recently.
2.12         Hek St. To forestall increasing deterioration of the quality and
coverage of health services the goverment is in the process of addressing 3 major problems:
(i) the increasing need of financing for basic operations; (d) inequitable allocation of public
resources for primary health care compared to other health services; ad (iii) inefficiency of
programming, budgezation, and follow-up of public expenditures in the sector. To address
these issues, the government will elaborate a strategy to improve the quality and quantity of
health services, of which the two main goals are to increase self-management of health
centers, beginning with the hospital sector, and decentralizing administrative services now
under the Ministry of Health. Two results are expected from increasing self-management:
greater efficiency in health centers due to private management, and the hope that the Ministry
of Health will devote more resources to priority public health programs, provide basic
medicines to health centers and referral services, and personnel training and review.
Decentralizing the administton of the Ministry should improve adapting it to the needs of
primary health care and specializing the role of the Ministry in the areas of policy and
planning. An important element of this reform effrt is to adapt new programming and
financiW stategies to the new approaches. As such, the government will elaborate the major
principles of a financing strategy for the health sector by the end of 1993 and will recommend
mechanisms funded on more autonomy for the health centers to manage their resources. This
strategy should incorporate a more efficient scheme of cost recovery, and re-assess the role of
the health insurance program.



-7 -
2.13         Education and Labo. Government strategy in this sctr consists in
reaRlocating intenl and shifting externa resources towards primary education to reinforce the
quality of instruction. To achieve this goal, teacher training, the living conditions of teachers,
and the availability of textbooks have been targeted as three priority arme. An effort i8 being
made to reduce costly and useless student repedtion. Parents and communities bear most of
the responsibility for building and maintaining primary schools. Financing the recurrent costs
of primary education, however, is expected to remain predomatly the responsibiity of the
state, although a greater participation of the private (mostly religious) sector is being
encouraged. At the secondary level, the governmet is advocatng decntalization and
encouraging the substitution of public institutions by schools which are locally built and
managed. At this level too, quality has become the first concem  Parents' financial
participation is steadily increasing at this level. However, external aid will be necessary to
achieve a real boost in the quality of school inputs. The government has set up a committee
to redefine the conditions of entry in higher education, and to make the promotion of students
from secondary education to university more selective. A financing strategy for the education
sector will be designed on the basis of the existing sectora1 PEP and in line with sectoral
measures already being implemented in the context of the ongoing education project. Specific
principles will be straightened out for each level of education and the respective role of the
government, families, local communities and the private sector in financing education services
will be redefined.
2.14         Technical and vocational education stiU lacks a development strategy.
However, the government has recenty embarked on a wide consultation on the vocational
trainig sector. A National Sectoral Policy has been drafted. It provides a good staring
point with an exhaustive inventory of activities and instituions in this sector, but it still lacks
the realism of an action plan. In particular, the policy has not been translated into budgetary
tems and is overly ambitious. In parallel, various measures are scheduled to intify
flexibility in the labor market and to foster employment generation. Revision of the labor
code including the liberaization of the recruing and layoff systems and the elimnation of the
minimum wage regulation for sldlled labor are expected to aid achieving these objectives.
Measures to reduce state intervention in the productive sector, such as the privadzation of
public enterprises, will be balanced by a retraing and reconversion program to be
encompassed in a comprehensive employment policy.
2.15         DecentWizatio and Non Govern                  fNGOs) Since 1989
the goverment has embarked on a policy of decentraization and has shown considerable
interest in the development of the NGO community. Wihin the past two years the
government, as part of its process of democrzation and in order to accelerate development,
has fostered the development of local NGOs and encouraged international NGOs to incrse
their operations in the country. However, mainly becase grassroots organizaos (especially
religious ones) faced strong repression in the past, local NGOs are still relatively weak and
mainy welfare oriented. Among loca NGOs, religious organizins are currenty very
active and have an extensive network of local branches all over the country. A Round Table
on NMOs in Bunudi was orgaized by the government in 1989. Recommeons were
made to: (i) improve coordnation between NGOs and the government programs as well as
between NGOs themselves, (ii) improve the legal framework for NGOs and associations, and
(iii) create a fund to support local initiatives. A NGO unit exists in the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, but it mainly provides support to international NGOs in their negotations on
agreements with the government Discussions are currently underway to create a NGO unit
that would facilitate local NGOs' relations with the governmet. The govermment has



-8-
recendy updated the status of non-profit organizations (Associations Sans But Lucratif" -
ASBL) to facilitate their development (decree of April 18, 1992). Finally, a number of
international NGOs such as OXPAM, tie Regional Program for Trainig and Exchange in
Development (a regional ONG), the Catholic Relief Services (CRS), the French Association
for Volunteers Towards Progress (AFVP, France), the Ceater for Studies and International
Cooperaion (CECI, Canada) have sted progms with local NGOs, but currendy on a
limited scale. Inational NGOs have also furfther developed their own programs in the
country. Thirty-five intecnational NOOs are formally registered in Burundi and about 34
local ASBLs are active in development. At the local level, many associations have been set
up for specific purposes such as parents associations, users groups for social services, credit
cooperatives, etc. The government is also privatizing cooperatives which will provide
additional private capacities at the local level.
2.16         The government has reinforced the role of the provinces and the communes in
its development policy with the idea of increasing the efficiency of governmental interventions
at the local level and responding better to the needs of the people. The Communal Law of
April 8, 1989 Increases the responsibility of the commune adminstaor with the possibility of
directly collecting some resources. In August 1991, the govermnent also created a communal
development fund to support development projects at the level of the communes. To date, it
is not yet effective and Its sustaiability is questionable given its reliance on local communities
with scarce resources. The commitment to greater auonomy and initiative at the local level
has been carried further by the new constitution (approved by referendum by 87% of the
voters and promulgated on March 13, 1992) which provides that communal administrators and
members of all ruling institutions at the communal level will be elected (up to now they were
political appointees). First elections are expected to take place by mid-1993. However, the
development of the communal administration is stil limited by relatively weak capacities at
the local level (ack of equipment, qualified staffing and financial resources). Few communes
have the capacity at the present time to manage substntial development programs; they can
however participate effectively together with a NGO or a development agency in grassroots
development projects.
2.17         INmation an the Social S       In the area of poverty monitoring and
generating information on the welfare of vulnerable segments of the population, very little has
been done by the government. The emphasis has been put on population and agricultral
staics -which benefit from important donor support, but the overall siuation of statistics,
and particularly that of ISTEEBU, remains deficient in terms of helping the government to
make economic decisions and to adequately design its development policy. No serious effort
is being made to monitor the evolution of the plon's welfare. Nevertheless, the
government has expressed its concern for monitoring closely the micro-economic and social
impact of the economic adjustment process.
Bank's Stcateg
2.18         Overal Sy. ITe Bank has identffied four central development issues
which are essential to achieve sustiable accelerated economic growth in Burmdi: (*)
redefining the role of the state, (i) developing the private sector and promoting exports, (dii)
reducing population growth and preventing deg tion of the environment, and (iv) mounting
effective programs to alleviate poverty. The role of the state needs to be modified to
strengthen public resource management while reducing the budget deficit and shifting the
compositon of expenditure from non-developmental to development uses and from directly



-9-
productive sectors towards social and economic infrastructure and programs. As a
complement, private sector development and ext promotion should be encouraged largely
through: (V) a reduction in govenmment activities in productive sectors; (ii a reeauation of
labor, land, and business regulations; (Ili) a liberalization of the fnmcial sector as well as
input and output prices, particularly for key consumer and agricultural goods; and (iv) the
involvement of private entrepeneurs in government policy makdng. nese reforms and
actions are supported most directy by IDA through the SAC m (Credit 2376-BU) and the
Private Sector Development Project (Credit 2358-BU). The United Nations Fund for
Population Activities (UNFPA), the United States Agency for Intaona Development
(USAID), and IDA (through the Health and Populaton Project) are supporting government
efforts to address the high population growth rate issue which seriousl, threatens economic
development. A five-year national family planning (FP) plan hab baen recently drafted. As it
is stll at the conceptual level, however, the government has requested dte Bank's assistance to
make it operational. Population pressure has also contributed significantly to environmental
degradadon and a lowering of the country's agricultura potential. Again, the donors are
cooperating to support the development and implementation of a Nationa Environmen
Action Plan.
2.19         Concerning poverty alleviation, the Bank supports a four-pronged approach
which consists of (i) the promotion of sound overall economic growth, (ii) the promotion of
employment Oppornies, (iii) improvement in the provision of adequate essenti services to
the poor, and (iv) improvement of the knowledge and monitoring of poverty. As mentioned
above, one of the SAC Ill's goals is to improve labor-intensive economic growth, in
particular through the removal of bottlenecks in recutment procedures and eimination of
capital-intensive bias in the economy. The Private Sector Development Project will provide
an APEX line of credit for private entrepreneurs, hence stmuatig the creation of
employment opportnites. In paralel, the Agrbuiness Promotion Project (Cr. 2419-BU)
aims at generating a supply response to adjustent measures and at diversifyin exports.
While breakng up monopolies and accelerating prvaatlzeon of agricultural public etrprises,
this project will also assist the development of small private agribusinesses.
2.20         The ongoing Population and Health Project (Cr. 1862-BU) and the Education
Sector Development Project (Cr. 1881-BU) aim to Improve the provision of adequate health
and education services to the populatio as a whole. The Population and Health Project's
goals are to strengtien the institonal capability of the MDinstry of Health, improve materal
and child health services nationwide, increase the contraceptive prevalence and assist in
controlling the AIDS epidemic. The Education Sector Development Project's overal
objectives are to accelerate access to basic education and to improve the quality of primary
and general secondary education through instutional strengthening and trahinig and through
the rationalization in the use of available resources, among other measures. Ihese two
projects follow a supply-driven approach and address the urgent issues of the availability of
quantitatively and qualitatively aequate services. The Water Supply Sector Project aims at
improving access to potable water and at increasing the local population's responsibiLity for
mainting exisdng water supply faclities. Finally, the proposed Natural Resources
Management Project would enhance popula participation in sustainable natural resources
management               of appropriate soil conservation techniques, while a rural
infratructure project is being considered which would encourage the spread of locally-
generated rur  a ure progams, especily at the commual level.



- 10-
2.21         The Project Compledon Report for the first two Strudural Adjustment Credits
pointed out weak micro and sectoral likge as one of the reasons for the mixed performance
of the adjustmen program. These adjustment operatons did not include any measures aimg
directly at promoting com_mity participation in rural areas. Similarly, past and ongoing
projects in the social sectors (education and health) show that community participation in basic
infrastructure such as schools and health centers is critical, but delicate to achieve in the
absence of a bottom-up approach. Earlier involvement in poverty areas was also hindered by
lack of reliable stastics and little assessment of final beneficiaries' needs andlor satisfction
with services. Other projects in the Africa region ( .e. the Zambia Social Recovery Project,
the Public Works and Employment Project in Senegal, and the Public Works and Employment
Project in Mali) or elsewhere (i.e. the Bolivia Emergency Social Fund -PPAR no. 849)
show that community-based projects can contribute subsially both to create an environment
conducive to growth and to improve micro, sectoral, and macro linkages as well as to reduce
poverty.
2.22         Ihe Burundi Social Action Project (BURSAP) is an intgral part of the Baks
and the government's development strategy, complementing the above mentioned programs
and addressing the more micro level structu  constraint which inhibit individuals from
realizing their economic potental. The project would do so by suppordng grassroob
initiatives aimed to trigger growth and alleviate poverty. The project would support local
communities to improve their management capacity and would foster local and non-
governmental participation in the development process. Overall, the BURSAP aims at
encouraging bottom-up initiatives and involving the poor in productive acvities to trigger
growth. Simultaneously, in coordination with sectoral policies and Bank sectoral projects, the
BURSAP project would assist graoots organizations to reinforce basic infrastructure in
education and health thus increasing accessibility of these services within the fraework of
established sectoral programs and agreed sectoral policies. The project would also promote
the creation of income-earning opportunities through support to micro-enterprise creation and
apprentceships. The poor are targeted to be direct beneficiaries of this project which
supports the Bank's poverty alleviation strategy. The project would also back up recent
eforts by the government concerning local initiatives, thus giving a concrete turn to
participatory local development and deceization. Finally, the project would support
ISTEEBU to monitor the country's social situation as a means to improve government policy
formnuation and implemenation, responding to the fourth line of action designed in the
Country Strategy Paper.
m. z QJo
A.Proect jQectives ad AM=gh
3.1          lTwiezimbereO, as the project has been named in Kirundi, the national
language, translates approi y to 'let us develop ourselves with our own resources'. This
name reflects the rust of the approach wich puts the benefiiar at the heart of the
development process and emphsizes the sef-help nature of the project In effect, the project
will both encourage producdve and socia acdvities undertaken by local populations and allow
a stats    monitoring of the socia situation in the country.



- 11 -
3.2          Proect Obectives. With the global goal of helping Burundi's population and
governmet fight poverty, the primary objectives of the project are to: (i) involve larger
segments of the population in the growth process by encouraging a wider partdcipation of the
population in small-scale productive activities; (ii) improve the living conditions of the
population through employment generation and better social services and inrastuc;
(ili) foster the participation of local governments and non-governmental agencies in
development-relaed activities; and (iv) enhance govenment capacity to formulate and
implement economic and social policies through a better monitoring of the social situation and
a better understanding of the patterns of poverty in the country.
3.3          PrWect AMh. To reach its fist three objectives, the project wfll respect
the following basic principles: (a) the social component of the project is demand-driven. As
such, it will not identify sub-projects aLpifi, but will react to local nintiatives -in prioity
those stemming ftom women and underemployed youth-; Ob) beneficiaries will participate in
sub-project formuladon, implementation, and evaluation; (c) contrbution from the
beneficiaries will be a prerequisite for sub-projects to be eligible for funding by the project;
(d) as many potential beneficiaries are likely to be unstled, often iliterate, and somedmes
inexperienced, they will need to be represented and asssted by intermediary agencies, such as
NGOs and local govermnents; (e) the selection of sub-projects, as well as that of intermediary
agencies -whether public or private, local, interational or forign- will be based on
competition; and (f) since local NGOs are few, uncoordinaed, nd oft  have relatively little
expenence, the BURSAP will assist them on a contractual and selective basis.
3.4          Monitoring the social situation will generte information about households'
economic and social situation, access to social services, and the changing nature of poverty in
the country. This information wiUl then help the government to better define macro-policies
with respect to their micro-economic impact as well as to improve sectoral financing
straegies. It will also provide information to the project unit as a way to continuously adapt
the project to the needs of the most vulnerable. Finally, a more steady and reiable flow of
information on incomes, expnditur, and essenial services at the provial level wil permit
the government to address geographical unbaances, both through the BURSAP and throgh
the development of other appropriate programs, including the social components of SAC M
(see parn. 1.7).
3.5          Ihe administration of the project will be entrusted to a strong, autonomous
agency staffed with well qualified independent managers. Becmse of the demand-iven
nature of the project, which by design means that sub-projects will not be selected eanto for
implementaion, precise and well-efined rules have been devised and agreed upon at the
outset for project selection. These rules are elaborated in an Operational Mamnl (OM) which
clearly defines procedures, responsibilities, and detailed project selection crtia. (A copy of
the Operational Manual is available in the Project Files.) The design of theproject is based
on lessons learned from experience in Africa, as spelled out in particuar in the regional
study: "Social Acdon Programs and Soci Funds, a Review of Experience in Design and
IplementaIdon". The project is also based on lessons learned from similar projects in
Sega, Mali and Zambia.



- 12 -
D.  1jgDg o
3.6          The project wfll have two components: (i) the social action program, as a
vehicle of the poverty alleviation strategy, and (i) the poverty moioring program. Although
complementary, these two componens involve quite diinct types of operations and imply
specific implementation apps.
Tne Social Aion Pzoa
3.7          This component will encompass an array of activities with synergetic effects
on the social and economic eonvironment in which the iteded beneficiaries, the poor, live.
Where possible, special priority will be given to: (i) women, who acaly have the burden of
most agricultural tasks (in particular food crops), combined with household chores, child-
bearing and rearing, but have limited access to land, litde hope of laud ownersbip and unequal
legal status, and draw few monetary benefits from these multiple tasks; and (ii) unemployed
and underemployed youths, especially those leaving primary school with no skills, meager
perspectives in the agricultura sector, and not financially nor technically equipped for off-
farm jobs in rural areas or for non-formal jobs in the towns. These groups share two
aracteristics: on the one hand, they represent a formidable economic potential, and on the
other hand, they lack the basic tools to concretdze this potendal. Although there are signs of
vigorous group dynamics in some parts of the country, the project will not be limited to
organized grouips, it wiUl also respond to requests of individuals.
3.8          Sub-projects to be financed under this component wil be selected in an initial
set of three pilot provinces. The choice cf these provinces was based on population density
and finalized during appraisa (Ngozi, Muyinga and Muramvya). At the project mid-term
review to be completed joinly by the Bank and the government in 1995, a decision will be
taken as to whether to expand project activities beyond these pilot provinces, or even to cover
all the 15 provinces (para. 7.4 (d) (ii)). Requests for projects ognating outside the agreed
set of provinces will be considered on an exceptional basis only. Tis component of the
project wi include: (i) four types of micro-projects (paras. 3.9 to 3.13); and (ii) general
support to the non-governmental sector (para. 3.14).
3.9            omL Genemfg Activies. The project will encourage the poor -whether
individually or in organized groups- to launch small-scale, viable, productive activities in
sectors where a demand can be identified or exwected, and which have durable real income
gains. Ihe project will finance basic specffic (vocational) training, basic mangem    and
markedng support on a gnmt basis.
3.10         To alleviate obstacles to popular credt, and although it wil nt be involved in
direct credit operations, the BURSAP will work with existng local financial intermediaries (n
particular the COOPECs) by coverig a portion of the costs assuciated with: (1) assistance in
designig and manag productive projects, (-d) traning of beneficarie in basic management
and accountany skills, and (Iii) small-scale marketing studies. Other donors will contribute
to finance a credit guarantee which will represent an amount of approximnately US$200,000.
3.11         EnhanceenFt of Economic IdoM     a  Pull bnefits of productive
activities are omen difficult to capture because of difficulties in input supplies and output
distribudon, or by sheer lack of a trading space. The project will finance these missig links
In order to make income generating activities more efficient and to enhance rural networks.



- 13 -
Infrastructure to be fianced may include bridges, feeder roads, portions of roads necessary to
unlock a community frm isoladon, limited market facilities, etc. Labor intensive work will
be preferred whenever proved as technically efficien and inofar as it generates employment
opportuities for a limited period of time. (See Implemation section for specifics.)
3.12         Social. Rehailitn and (in rare but eseal cases)
construction of infastruce for esnti services In health and education will be eligible for
financing by the project to the eten that local communities or user groups epress these as
their priority needs and contribute to the costs of the sub-projects. Primary schools and
health centers will be rehabilitated with the spport of the project if a sufficient demand is
documented and in line with development plans of the ministries in charge of the education
and health sectorz (e.g. school map).
3.13         Social Activi wfll be encouraged and supported in three areas deemed to
have high extnalities and where they would be expected to help amplify the impact of
income generating activties and contibute to create a developmental environment. They
include: (i) family planning, (ii) literacy programs, and (iii) food supplemention. Social
service sub-projects will have to be consistent with the government's seGtoral policy to which
they relate and will be coordinated with operations run by line ministries (Ministry of Primary
and Secondary Education, Ministry of Health,  inistry of Cra ip, Vocational Training
and Youth, Miistry of the Pmotin of Women and Social Protection, etc). In particular, to
ensure thorough coordination, family planning acdvities will be considered only after a
satisfactory operational strategy is defined by the Ministry of Health and is In place.
Existing projects which have demonse their experience in these areas will be called upon
to assist implementation. Specialized agencies of the United Nations Organization would also
bring to the project useful sectoral knowledge, field expeience, and competet personnel in
many of the activities under consideration. The World Food Progam (WFP) would
collaborate in the food suppl ion avi thugh: (i) trahiing of nutrition advisers; and
(ii) stimulating a demand for local staple food (to be ditrbuted to primary school students),
the production of which would in tun be encouraged through income generating sub-projects.
3.14         Develom    of Lac NM   Local NGOs are still few in Burundi and many
lack experience, skilled staff, and logistical and financial means. Coordination among them
has also been weak, although recent poive developments are noticeable. For this reason, in
additon to contribudng to some of the costs borne by NGOs as executing agencies for
specific sub-projects, the BURSAP wil also aist local NGOs in their efforts to coordinate
themselves better and wil provide limited funn for studies and traing of their staff.
Furthermore, it will incie inteatona NGOs to promote the growth of their local
counterat.
3.15         The objective of this component is to strengthen the govemment's capacity to
measure and monitor trends in the popuations living conditions. This is particularly
important at this juncure during the ongoing economic reform period. The project alms at
setting up a permanent household and community survey system to produce socio-economic
data necessary for: (i) monitrng the evolution of living standards over time, (ii) identifying
pWulatin groups for targeted astan, and OM designing and assessing the couty's
development strategy to promote growth among the poor. Te compot also places heavy
emphasis on capacity buflding, with almost a tird of the budget for the component devoted to



- 14-
this task through training. The conponent will be divided into two phases: (i) data processing
and analysis of existing Household Budget Surveys (HBS) and preparation of a vulnerable
groups targeting exercise; and (ii) the implemenation and analysis of household and
community surveys which will then be udlized in policy formulation.
3.16         'Me EisM        bis already well underway. It consists essentially of
completing the data processing, anlyzing the data, and releing the results of the Rural HBS
carried out by ISTEEBU between 1986 and 1990. One statistician specialized in HBS and
one computer specialist were hired to aid ISTEEBU in this task and micro-computer
equipment has been purchased and local staff salaries and operatng costs were financed with
the European Community's and the Bank's support (under a PPF advance). Results from the
Bujumbura HBS carried out by ISTEEBU in 1991 are also being processed with outputs
available in early 1993. A progam for data processing and analysis of the results of the rural
HBS was set up and codification and data entry operations were launched in April-May 1992.
Because of the poor quality of some parts of the questionnaire, only a reduced set of
information is being treated. The results that will be available in mid-1993 consist of:
demographic characteristics, employment, education, housing characteristics, possession of
goods, farming equipment, agricultural incomes, livestock, other incomes and expenditre,
and food consumption. These data will allow the analysis of rural household incomes and
expenditure. Before analyzing and releasing the survey results, a final study on the quality of
the data will be carried out.
3.17         The operation for targeting vulnerable groups will consist of analyzing
currendy available data to identify and geographically locate vulnerable groups. Data to be
used will be those of the 1990 Population Census, the Population and Health Survey, the
HBSs and other administrative data from the ministries of agriculture, health, labor and social
security, and education. Activities to be carried out under this sub-component will include:
(i) an inventory of available studies and statstics related to the socio-conomic sectors, (ii)
selection of indicators which are most sensitive to changes in social and economic
environment and which enhance the capacity to evaluate poverty by regions for targeting and
monitoring purposes. The targeting method will consist first in rankdng geographical areas by
agreed poverty measures and second in identifying typical individuals or groups within the
ranked areas.
3.18         The Second Phase wll consist of seting up a permanent apparatus to
undertake: (i) household and community surveys as well as analyzing and dsinatin the
survey results, and (ii) socio-economic studies to enhance both policy formulation and
targeting of existing programs. In this framework, the following activities will be executed.
3.19         The project proposes to carry out one short Podrity Survey (PS) in 1993/94 to
alow a diagnosis of the households economic situation. The quality of th,e work during the
first phase and the capacity reached by ISTEEBU will be assessed during the project mid-term
review. Based on this assessment, it will be decided whether a more comprehensive and
sophisticated Integrated Survey (IS) can be realically lauched in 1995 (para. 7.4 (d) (ili)).
These household surveys will be acmpaed  by community survey modules which are more
or less developed according to current priorities. A full year will be allotted to thoroughly
analyze the results of surveys which have already been implemented.
3.20         The surveys will be implemented by mobile teams of iterviewers based in
four regional offices (Bujumbura, Ngozi, Gitega, Bururi). The surveys will be applied to



. is -
national samples. The PS sample wll cowver approximaely 6,000 households (2,000 urban
and 4,000 rural). It will be run over a three month period by 10 teams of three interviewers
(with two ful reserve teams).  he sample for the IS will be aroximatly 3000 households
and will be covered by 10 teams of 2 IntervIewers during a fill year.
3.21         The questionnaires to be used for the surveys will be adapted from a survey
methodology developed for the Social Dimension of Adjustmet (SDA) program at the World
Bank. They will cover most of the solo-economic indicators. The questionnaire of the PS is
a reduced form of the questionnaire of the IS In the sense that It focuses on a selection of
main indicators in a less aggred way than the IS (detais are provided in Annex IV).
3.22         Socio-economic studies, using data from the above-mentoned surveys, will
be carried out at different stages of project implementation. The study program will be
established on the basis of priorities set by a Users Committee. The study program will
follow two major axes: market behavior of different socio-economic groups and satisfaction of
basic needs. The studies will cover specific subjects such as a poverty profile, employment
and earnings, migration, educaton, health, fertility, food security and nutrition, women's
issues and smallholders. Data from the surveys wil also be used for updating the nadonal
accounts, for building social accountg matrices, and for macro-modelling.
3.23         Trag. A stong training program is linked to this component. In addition
to its support and training for ISTEEBU, this program will also address the need for related
ministries to improve their staffs capacity to use statcs in general and to interpret the
survey results and to learn how to incorporate them in sectoral work The traming program
will encompass all aspects of survey implementation (sampling, questionnaire design, survey
organization, data processing and tabulation), as well as complementary training and initation
for analyzing, and using the survey results. The project wil provide Ior short-term as well as
long-term training, and teclhical assistmce by both short and long term, ternational and
national consultants. The project will also provide equipment and support installation
maitenance of regional offices and wil contribute to incremental opratng costs.
IV. PROJECTA               Q
A. Insittonal and Prcssing Paeol
InAtitutional Settings
4.1          A large extent of administatve and financial autonomy, flexibility, and
transparency are all critical for a project In which sub-projects are rot determined exante. but
in the course of the project. For this reason, instead of relying on thw conventional type of
adminrative implementation Uit within the framework of a minisry or as a public
enteprise, the government has decided to resort to a new formula by which the management
of the project will be contracted to an indendnt organization. To this end, a non-profit
organization (VAssociation Sans But Lucratff, or ASBL) named w e    has been
created and it will be in charge of implementing the activities covered by the project. The
ASBL will be supervised by a Genera Assembly (GA) and run by a Steering Committee
(SC). The Management Unit (MU) will  minster the project. The Director of the MU and
the administrative and financial officer wfll be responsible for disbursements (without prior



- 16-
agreement of Ministry of Finance) and procuement procedures will not have to comply with
government procurement rules, but with Bank procedures. A Framework Agreement has
been passed between the govemen and the AS8L deining the conditions under which the
ASBL will implement the project (th  verl oamizationl structure of the project is
presented in Annex 1). A copy of this Frmwork Agreement is avalable in the ptoject fie.)
Because of the multi-sectoral and coss-departmental nature of the project, the govemental
constituency responsible for the project (tutelle") will be the Mistry of Planning (MP)
which had the responsibility for most of the preparion work and wil monitor the sadsfactory
implementation of the Agreement with the ASEL. The Ageeumet has been suitted to IDA
before negotiations, for comments and fil approval (ara. 7.1 (a)). Lega existence of the
AS13L was a condition of negodations (para 7.1 (b)). This condition was fulfilled on
February 25, 1993. Ihe Agreement between the government and the ASBL on the terms
accepted by IDA was signed prior to Board presentation (para 7.2).
4.2          General Assembly of the ASBL. Founding members of the ASBL (the law
requires a minimum of 5 members) include 3 non-profit organizations and NMOs, the
president of the Chamber of Commerce, and the president of the Communa Development
Fund. The GA will have the capacity to modify the statutes of the ASBL. Such
modifications, as well as changes to the Agreement will also have to be accepted by IDA
(para. 7.4 ()). The GA will adopt the intn  rues of the MU and approve the budget.
4.3          WOO=  Unit. Although the MU will have full facial responsibility for
runing the two components of the project, it will delegate the implementtion of the second
component to ISTEEBU, which itself is an autonomous agency under the MP. All rules and
procedures to be applied by the MU are listed in the Operationa Manul (OM) which is an
integral part of the Framework Agre . his Agement was reviewed and approved by
IDA before it was signed by the Govermment and the ASBL. Any futre modification of the
OM will have to be submitted to IDA (para. 7.4 (f)) for approval. With regard to the social
program component, he MU will:
(a)   launch promotional campaigns and outeach activities in view of: () making
communities aware of the new funding and assistance mechaisms made
available by the proJect, (i) encurage fbrmuadon of sub-projects, and (di)
help communites and local NGOs develop a sponsorship network;
(b) screen sub-projects, appraise their quality and select them. The screening will
foUow stdct rules and crietia spelled out in te OM;
(c)   prepare and sign agreements and contas with benficiaries (or their
pre     ives), sponsors, executi  agencies (e.g. NMOs) and private
(d)   finance and supenise sub-project execution;
(e)   assess sub-project performance;
(f)   coordinate the program with other ongoing or forthcoming projects with
similar or overapping interests;
(g)   maintain contact with governmel_ and international agencies; and



. 17 -
Oh)    develop and implement a satisfactory management iormaon system.
4.4           The staff of ie MU b beng recid  though advertzed compeve
selection and hired under fixed term conutact. IThe MU is headed by a director who will
have the capacity to sig all documents and contrs involving, ig.alia. fid mobilization,
disbursemens, and recruitment. lTe MU director will be the project director. The MU
director must be a highly qualified, experienced indiidual with strong manager  competence
who represens the project visIda government officials, project sponsors, private
enterprises, beneficiaries, otier donors, and interat     agencies. Tho MU director was
selected In May 1992 after a very competitive screening procedure and took office just before
the arrival of the appraisal mission.
4.5          In addition to the project director, the MU will contain the following high
level staff, with terms of reference, experience and qualifications aaceptable to IDA
(para. 7.4 (g)):
(a)    a manager for income generatng and social activities sub-projects who
Collec, appraises, supvies, and assesses sub-projects, with the paticipation
of beneficiaries and extern  assistance when technically needed; this staff was
selected in May 1992, along with, and after the same procedures as for the
MU director, and participated in the appraisal mission;
(b)    an officer for promotion actvities to develop promoional material and
campaigns for pont  beneficiaries, ensure the internalization of the project
at the community level, explain the project to local authorities and NMOs, and
help in the formuladon of sub-projects. This staff was selected before
negotaons (para. 7.1 (c));
(c)    an adminve and financial officer to administer all physical and flnancial
resources available to the project, apply relevant acounting Wues vis Iules
sub-prject execution   plementing agencies and private firms), government,
and other donors. In addition, this officer will manage fining operations for
the second component to be implemented by ISTEEBU. This officer has been
selected, and is on board since September 1, 1992. He already participated to
a Bank-sponsored seminar on disbursements before negotiations.
(d)    an engineer to manage infrastructure sub-projects, whose responsibility covers
both social fcilities and equipment (schools and health centers) and ecoomic
infrastructure (feeder roads, bridges ...). This staff is to be appointed later on
as and when needed.
(e)   these high-level staff will be assisted by 6 more junior staff and by support
staff, to be recruited as the project develops; and
(t) in addition, one staff will be posted in the capital of the provinceof
Muramvya, and another one in the city of Muyinga. In this latter case, the
staff could be installed in the development center opeated by the Catholic
church, and wil work in coordination with the Bank-financed Muyinga
Agriculture Development Project.



- 18-
4.6          &teeg CM         . Ue Stei  Committee (SC) wll be composed of four
members, three of them elected by the Geeal Assmbly, and the director of the MU (with
no voting power). noe SC tasks Inlude:
(a)   submtg any proposed change In the set of selection criteria or In the OM to
the OA;,I
(b)    submitg the budget of the ASBL to the GA; and
(c)    monitoring the program management.
4.7          The Steering Committee will also be responsible to make a posteriori control
of sub-project selection. When sitting In this capacity, the SC will be joined by a
representative of the Ministry of Planning and a representtive of the donors financing the
operation. Me "extended* SC will meet every 3 months to review the project portfolio.
4.8          nedia           Aeees. As the project is targeted at the poor and vulnerable,
not all of the potential beneficiaries will be able to formulate or to implement viable projects
without technical assistance. Organized groups, such as producer groups, parent-teacher
groups, village associations or users associations will have more assets to develop their own
projects. Nevertheless, in many cases, it is expected that project sponsors will be needed
from the start Any kind of non-profit organization will be eligible to represent and assist
beniiar  in sub-project design, appraisal, and execudon for fimding, provided that it
meets specific criteria and has a proven track record. These intermediay agencies could
consist of: i) NGOs (local if possible), (ii) local branches of the centra government, such as
the centers for the promotion of women of the Ministry of Women's Promotion and Family
Protection, (ii) local communties at the 'coHline or at the communal level, or (iv) other
kinds of local organizations such as religious parishes or associations created by wealthier
members of a community. As long as they meet the criteria spelled out in theOM, exisiang
projects financed by other donors might also compete as beneficiaries' sponsors.
suKP     Le Selecton Criteria
4.9          Criteria for the selection of sub-projects in the first component of the project
are spelled out in the OM. They have been etensively discussed during preparation,
viewed at appraisal, and, as the OM is an integral part of the Framework Agreement, have
been finalized before Board Presentation. Ihey are divided into two groups: those pertaining
to the sub-projects themselves and those related to exeuting agencies. It is estimated that the
average cost of a sub-project will be around US$25,000 based on the experience of the EC
Micro-realization program and ongoing NGO programs with very few projects exceeding
US$100,000. Maximum size for a sub-project will be US$250,000. Criteria for sub-project
selection are outined below.
4.10         Generma  Criteria for Selection of Sub-Projects. The first set of criteria to be
met is general in nature, reflecting the basic objectives of the project and to which sub-
projects must comply, irrespective of the type of acdvity concerned. These criteria fall into
the following categories:
hay chap w do Oped mih IbAuD med p1wqmw 'of M1iA ad do senmer.



- 19-
(a)  Sodi
-     the sub-project reflects dloady expressed needs;
-     beneficiaries are poor;
-     the subfpr,ject conrbutes to improve liing conditons;
-     beneficiaries pardeipate In the elaboration and the execution of the
sub-oject.
(O     T cr)
-     technical feasibility of the sub-project;
conformity to technical noms established by relevant minisies
(education and health, for most cases);
mabsence of negadve impact on the environment (on the basis of Bank
en    mental requiements).
(c)            ctea:
-     minima acceptable tota cost;
-     minimal acceptable unit cost (per beneficiay);
minimum beneficiary contibon to the cost of the sub-project;
-     sustainability after sbproject fiacing.
(d)    Iltutonal and mwng cnt.ritoia
sufficient organizaion of beneficiaries;
guarantee that beneficiaies take over the sub-project implentation
after funding by the project;
-     beneficiaries have udance and advice from an experlened sponsor.
4.11         SegS Cti fbr Sdecdon of Subojec    In additon to the above
eneral cr    subprojets must mee criteria speciflc to each category of actvity they fall
Inbto: incom  generating activities, socia and ecomic   ucte, and social acies.
4.12         Cntena for Selection of So      Agecs and Goods and Services PS4es.
In some cases, potentW beneficiaries will submit direcly their projecs to the MU. It is
expected, however, that in most cases beneficiaries will have to reso;t to a sponsor.
Lewise, it is likely that b-projets wl require some degree of technical eerise. In all
cases the MU will have to screen these partner agencies on the basis of specific crtia:
(a)    Sub-project sponso, actg as executg agencies. Appraisa and selection of
these agencies wil be organized on the following basis: (i) of ficial status,
(I) one-year demontated experience, (ffi) credibility among beneficiaries,
and (lv) availabiliy of competent staff and sufficient administrative capacity;
(b)    Goods and services providers. They wil be selected according to
procurement procedures acceptable to WIDA, and on the following grounds: (i)
acceptable references, (i) a demonstrtd technical e  and sound
quality of products, and (il) conformity of prices and procedures to the
standards established or accepted by te MU.



-20-
4.13          zMMfiandIde1Ificon. The manger for promodon activties will make
frequent fleld vinits I the piltpvc  i order to dina telnaton aboutthe
oppornitdes offered by the project, as well as to explain to potential beneficiaries the
approach, objecdves, and procedures of the project. Innovatve campaips (media coverage,
competitions, prizes...) wll take place to encourage individuals and organized groups to
formulate projects. Pimay sdhools, low-level vocational schools, and health centers wil be
used as campaign centers. Ihe manager for promotion acivities will: (i) liaise wih local
constituencies and keep in contact with represeives of various orgnizatons worldng at the
local level in order to be ready to identify new projects and to help their designers put them
in an articulate marner, and (i) collect requests for sub-projects . Promotion efforts will be
Intensified in areas where poverty is known to be wiespread and especlzly severe.
Specialists in social marketing and inmation, education and commicaon wi be called
upon to help design and launch the campaigns.
4.14         Arasl Pocedures. Each niti sub-project request is to be logged in by
the MU and classified according to the type of activities it belongs to. Then the following
steps are taken: (a) the project is pre-sorted and declared eligble on the basis of the category
of activity, the project amount, the target population, and the sponsor agency; (b) a field visit
is oranized; and (c) the project i reviewed accing to the prestablisheG set of creria
and the budget is analyed. If the sub-project isJudged appraisable, it is then trasmitted to
the relevant technical ministry which has up to two weeks to object to or comment upon the
proposaP,/ (d) final approval is decided by the MU director and his senior team. At each
step applicants have a possbility to re-er the cycle, with better, updated, or more complete
information. An a Roerjgio control is exercised by the extended SC.
4.15         P-oect        ihe MU montors project implementation and contracts
part of the supervision to an experienced consultant according to precise terms of reference.
The MU organizes one monthly visit to the site of each sub-project. Procurement and
disbursements follow IDA procedures.
4.16           rJet M. Monioring of sub-project Implemenation and
impact will be conducted by the MU. The monitoring will be physical and financial, and will
take into account the impact of the sub-project or, oceficiares. The physical and fiacial
monitoring wJIl be included in the Management and nfomation System (MIS). Terms of
reference for the technical assistace necessary to help design the MIS were submitted to IDA
during negoions (para. 7.1 (d)), and a MIS which is acceptable to IDA should be
operational before credit offectiveness ara 7.3 (c)). During MU superion missions, a
detailed supervision report will be prepared Indicatng the physical advamet of the project
and flaggg any implemen sion ies. The views of the beneficiaies and the implementig
agencies will also be recorded durig these missions. Every dibrement by the MU wil be
monitored thro  the MIS. The MU will produce quarterly reports containing a summary of
the fndings of the supervision missions, along with r mtins to improve the
implementtion and design of sub-projects. The implention of sub-projects will be
monitored against a set of quaified performance indicators which will be adjusted every
year. The indicators are summarized in Table 4.1.
y uh Es _ XX __ 1 *u               JIi



- 21 -
IX 4.1: Indicators                       nfo ProJect Mo 1torig
indicators                         Ye__I_   Year 2   Year 3| Year 4
l No ,l I_Al-
-  ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ MMM=                      =    ~W
¶   Nuber of g&Lgolects arved                              60       70 -o            90
2   Mludber of sub-prolects imier I1PleMentation           s0       S0      90      130
3   Nurmer of sub-proects coaleted                         20       50      90      100
4   Euwlowmnt created (man/months)                   _ 200        3000    5500    4000
5   NSruber of direct beneficiaries                     50000   60000  150000  120000
6   Percent of women amnor direct beneficiaries            60       60      60       60
7   Percent of proJect approved fn tess than 3 months      75       65     100      100
8   Percent of projects that have adhered to its           70       85      90      100
inwtementatlon schedule
CIIIIT *2 
9   Develop an action plan to facilitate NGO coordination            X    -
10   Finatize results from 1980s Household Budget Surveys   X
(EUC)
11  Cotplet. analysis of EBC, cesus, and other data for     X
identifying target vutnerable gsrous
12   Beoin Driority surv  (PS)                              X              -       -
13  Analyze PS                                            -          x
14  Begin integrated survey (IS) ff agree during mid-                         X
term review of oroJect
15  Analnte IS I
4.17           In addition to USing the above performance indicators, the impact of the sub-
projects on beneficiaries will also be moniored. The indicators monitored will vary
according to the type of sub-projects and will intrate qualitative as well as quandtative
elements. Examples of such impact indicators are:
- produtiveU gjects: increase of outputs produced by the beneficiaries; increase
in revenues of businesses; increase in quality of oututs.
- rehabgiation of economic jr,c:  increase of outputs in the project
area; reduction in costs of acdvities; changes in the beneficiaries' perception
of the oppormities open to them.
- reabilitation of social service infauctre: increased use of these services
by different categories of the populaton; change of the beneficiaries' attitude
towards the serice; increased contributions for cost recovery.
- social acfivie: improvement of the nUtritoal situation in the project area,
increase of the level of literacy, etc...



-22-
A table of indicators by type of projects will be prepared by the MU.
4.18         To help montor the quality and effectiveness of project implemenion, the
MU will carry out an anna Beneficiary A s         (BA) for a selected number of sub-
projects representative of the portfolio under implementation. Lowal consultants will be used
for this purpose. lbe information collected wil focus in particular on the level of
paticipation of the beneficiaries in the sub-project, their view of the usefulness of the sub-
project for themselves, the immediate beneit of the sub-projects for the community, the
relation with implementing agencies, the sustnability of the activities undertaken, and any
other issue releVant to the local population. The findings of the BA will be presented in an
annual report and will be discussed with the Steeing Committ.
4.19         S_bili  of                   There are two levels of sustainability relevant
to the Twitezimbere project sustainability of the sub-projects financed by the Socia Action
Program and sustainability of the institutional structure of Twitezimbere itself. Concerning
the former, the Operational Manual stipulates that before any sub-project can be financed by
the project, Its sustainability after project intervention must be assured. To achieve this, each
project must include a plan for community participation in financing, implementing, and
manin the acdvity after project support is completed - a requirement and an integral
part of the appraisa of the sub-project. Without acceptable plans for the micro-project's
susnability, It will not be supported by the BURSAP. The quesdon of whether the
Twitezimbere Instton itself should be sustainable is one to be answered dunng the mid-
term review of the project. For this reason and because of the unique nature of the
implementing agency, incremental operat  costs have not been shown on a declining basis.
Should the project be successful in efflciendy implementing micro-Wprojects which have a good
record of improving the living standards of the population, past experience with these types of
social funds has shown that the agency has had no problem in raising the money from eral
donors, organizations, and the goverment to cover its opeatng costs.
Links with the Micro-realization Project (BC and Other Onoing Proiects.
4.20         The European Community (EC) Micro-realization Project started in 1978 to
fund micro projects primarily in the area of social infrastcture (constuction of schools,
health centers, water supply), a few economic infast s (bridges), and a small number of
sub-projects to support rural coperatives. The project is placed under the umbrella of the
Ministry of Rural Development. It was very slow to start because it depended origiMlly on
formal bureaucratic channels for its operations. Over the years, more autonomy was granted
to the project and new mechmisms for disbursement and procurement were designed to
increase project efficiency. Its actvities are now carried out mainly in the eastern provinces,
the zone of concenration for EC activities. The EC Micro-reaization project is disbursing
about two mUlion dollars a year for about 50 sub-projects. It is now facing an important
instuonl issue: the mandate of the ministry under which it operates has been restricted to
limited areas of activities that do not cover the entire scope of atviies of the EC funded
project Nevertheless, the EC-funded project is a valuable source of experience on which
Twteimbere will be able to draw for its infrahstucture sub-projects.
4.21         It has been agreed that very close collaboration will be set up between the two
projects at the outset. Ihis will allow Twtezimbere to benefit from the long experience of
the EC Micro-realization project which is considered successful. This collaboration will take



-23 -
the following form: (i) the EC Mcro-realization Project will support the Twitezimbe  ptoje
in designing the procurement, contracting, and disbursement mechisms for infstructure
sub-projects; (ii) infrmation will be exchanged on implemenig agencies at the local level
and Twtezimbere will use the short lists of masons and small scale construction companies
established by the EC Micro-realization Project for its own work; and (I) in order to
accelerate the preparation and implementation of Infrastructure sub-projects durng
Twitezimbere's first year, the EC Micro-realization Ptoject may be contacted to carry out
some technical studies and sub-project supervision.
4.22         Ihe IDA-financed Transport Sector Project has supported the creation of a
unit in the General Directorate for Roads MDR) of the Minisry of Trmsport, Posts and
Telecommunications, responsible for managing a program of rehabilitation and maitnce   of
access roads to coffee-washing stations. Ihe unit in DGR is in charge of planning,
conacting, and supervising works which are carried out by small and medium enteprims
(SMEs) using labor-based techniques. The unit is presently taining SMEs for this purpose (it
has so far trained II SMEs which are ready to start up works). It has also prepared technical
specifications for road maintenance and rehabilitation using labor-based techniques. Loca
firms capable of undertaking the technical supervision have been Idenified by the DGR unit.
It has been agreed that the same technical specification, roster of trained SMEs and firms for
technical supervision will be used for road rehabilitation under the Twitezimbere project.
Trained SMEs could easily carry out works for both projects as the contracts will be small
and of a short period (the contacts will cover an average of 5 to 10 kms of rehabilitation). It
is estimated that the average cost of road rehabilitation using these techniques is
US$6,000/km, 50% of these costs would be for labor and this would create 2500 man/day of
work per rehabilita'id kdlometer.
bLndtitional Framework for thie Poverl tyMoitoring  o n
4.23           TEEBU will be the executing agency for implementin the surveys,
publishing, and dissent heir resuts. The Director General of ISTEEBU will be the
project component manager. Statisticians and economists from this instute wil be mobilized
to carry out data collection and p:ocess operations and the project will provide for hiring fidd
staff and data entry clerks.  TEBBU will also be responsible for forming a Users Committee
to be composed of the main partners of the goveanment in the economic and social sectors,
including university and donors res     . The role of this committee wiU be to
determine priorities for data collection, agree on the questionnaires' conites, help disseminate
the results of the analysis, and Insure hat the govert's decision makers will take ta
information into account when designing and assessing stategies for development ISTEEBU
will be responsible for implementing and promoting the study program. Other ministries
related to social sectors will benefit from this opportunity to be tained and wil receive
resources for carying out studies in their field of interest based on the survey reslts. The
univity research department will provide local coDsultant fr implemenng the stdies.
The surveys carried out under this component will also provide iomadion on the impact of
the social action program componuet in the targe4 regions. While ISTEEBU will have the
responsibility for monitoring the execution of the project, using inputs from the Users
Committee and from exenal advisers to make sure that both the surveys and the studies are
implemented as excted, the MU will ensure the financial monitoring of this component, in
particular through its MIS. Ihe MU and JSTEEBU will sign an agree_m spelling out their
respective responsibilities.



-24 -
B. Mm  of En
4.24          eparSg. Between he Bak's preparation mission of October/November
1991 and the appras mission in June 1992, preparation work has been mostly undertaken by
two consuitan  (one national and one expatriate) who have produced the first draft of the
OM. Since then the Managementt Unit has taken shape: (a) the selection procedure for the
positions of its chief and the manager for productive and social activities started in early
January 1992. These two positions were filled in May and  cumbents were on board in time
for the appraisal; (b) the MU has now its own offices, its support staff, and basic equipment,
and it is becoming fully operational. Since appraisal, an adminstrative and finacial officer
was selected in August 1992 after two rounds of competitive search. Similarly, the officer
responsible for promotion activities was selected and reuited before negotiations (para. 7.1
(c)). Ihe MU has elaborated a comprehensive OM, inventoried a set of pilot projects ready
to be launched, and made significant progress in the conception and formulation of its future
statutes. Ihe MU, as it has existed during project preparation, will be turned into a
fuilfledged project umit at credit effectiveness, with the same staff if its performce is well
rated after a six-month Wial period. ISTEEBU's work under the second component is
progressing and the results of the rural BBS are being produced on schedule.
4.25         Maagerial tasks, initily under the sole responsibility of the MP, have been
graduaUly shifted to the MU. As an example, the MU chief has now the authority to hire,
fire, and make operations under the PPF advance  ointly with the Director General of
Expenditures of the Ministry of Finance), formerly a prerogative of the Minister of Planning
or his Director General. The PPF advance (US$370,000) was signed on February 3, 1992
and is operational. Al procedures necessay to tigger the availability of counterpart fumds
from Belgium and the EC have been completed on time and these funds fully contute to the
preparation of the BURSAP (respectively about US$110,000 and US$300,000). The MU
chief also runs these counterpart funds. The United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
has also contributed to varous preparation activities, including the selection of high-le-vel staff
for the MU. Two line minibstries have set up special commttees to follow up the activities of
the project: the Ministry of Cra nip, Vocationa Trining and Youth, and the Ministry
of Rural Development.
4.26         Pilot Acvides. About 15 pilot sub-projects have been identified and will be
screened shordy. The MU will be ready to launch these activities as soon as an agreement on
the legal status of the project is reached, and after Banks prior approval. This will provide
an opportuity to the MU to test the OM and especially the critria and the procedures which
have been set up. It wil also contribute to the prepaation of the ful scale project laumching,
through dissemination of infmation on the project. The EC is co-financing the largest part
of these pilot activities. A pipeline of 25 sub-projects wil have to be submitted to IDA and at
least 10 of these will have to have been approved by IDA before credit effectiveness (parn.
7.3 (a)).



-25 -
V. COI EilNANClMN  NDMANGMEN[
A. ECQaLosts
5.1           Ihe total cost of the project is US$15.7 million net of taxes and duties. The
cost of the Soial Action Program is US$10.5 mllion, and the cost of the poverty monitoring
component (survey, sties, training, and capacity building) is epected to be US$1.9 million,
and the cost of the project managent wfll be US$1.2 million (Table 5.1). The project will
be financed by IDA, the govarment, local communities, and benefliciaries. Because the MU
will already have a complete pipeline of appraised projects by the date of credit effcdveness,
it is expected that disbursements will pick up fairly rapidly the first year. The number of
projects under the Social Acton Program component will be adjusted to correspond to
available financing. The estmated foreign exchange component is US$3.7 million or 23% of
total costs. Physical contingencies have been estimed at 10% for equipment, vehicles and
mateials. Price coutigencies bave been calcuat  as follows: (i) 3.6% per annum on
forelgn exchange expenditure, and (O) 8% in 1993, 8.7% in 1994, 6% in 1995 and 5%
thereafter for local cost epeithres (table 5.2). Ihe detail costs and finamcing plans of the
project are shown in Annex VI.
Table 5.1: Proect Cos S_y=
(m US$ thousad)
j_ _ _    _     5$    ___       _   , Fr.i ~  8 Total
lobmig.   ason costs
i ________________|_______   Leccl t    Preis.     Total
A. Social Action ProwBa       9.068      1 479      10,546          14         75
B. Powrty t'nftoring            721      1,184       1,90S          62         14
C. Nwnagmsnt and Ill.pt.      1,044        143       1,187          12          8
0. PPF                            0        400        400          100          3
Total MMIIE COSM             10.833      3.206      14.039        23           100
Physicat Contingncgis           739        267       1,007          2           7
Price Ccntfancies               43?        200        637           31          S
Total PJEIT CcoTS            12.009      3g673      15.62           2a         112
ml



-26 -
Tal :          AQG    cs
(i US$ thusd)
us                _   1 S FW*Iwn    X Total
ExP        ease costs
Local FWrein             Tota
I. lNESEITC                                      _
A. Equi tvehiclees          2.734        1.867        4.601          41          33
B. Cli wrks                 2,250           0         2 250           0           16
'. TA, Training &           5,256          93         6,195          15          46
0. PPF                          0          400         400          100           3
Total INr*TIEN COSTS       10 240        3206        13.46           24          96
Operations and                593            0         593            a           4
Maintenance
total UMELIE COSaS         10.833        3.M         14.M            23          100
Physical Contfnwncios         739          267        1,007          2            7
Price Continancies            437          200         637           31           5
Totad POn" MOS1            12,009        3.673       Is 68           as          112
B. Ei^  Pa
5.2           Sources of funding for the project are shown in table 5.3. IDA will fund 66%
of the total project cost The goverment will cover the ret through direct budget
contribution and communt parcpation (5%), and  ounerpart fins geneated from import
programs, which the goverme  intends to negotate with the EC and Belgium (29%).
UNDP has also indicated a strong intr  in various activities of the project and is likely to
participate in the operation, finmcially and/or tecically. Likewise, the WFP has been
approached and i interested. It is expected that the Government will  ISify it8 effots to
mobilize fiuther funding on a gran basis, and the Associadon will support such efforts.



-27 -
Table 5.3: Enm    nLf Plan by Disbursement CateW
(in US$ thousad)
IMA        GOMT.Y      TOTAL
-     -     t    -_          -      Fet     -
AmtI         AndI        A"t         For.   LOo"
Soi Aa_ Ns
A. CMI wort        1,7S5   76   506   22   2,301   15      0    2,301
S. Eqlpm., meutei  2,40   53  2.251   47   4,747   30  1,863    3.094
C. TA. TinIng      2.531   53  2,263   47   4,764   31    76   4,715
D. TA, Trning      1.472  100     0    0   1,472    9    923      540
L Equ*m, veh., nmt  450   99       6    2    468    3    442       17
F. km. Operao Eped.    203  100   0    0    203    1       0      203
F,*  -us    
GL TA. Tridnin      521   04   299  98    611    5         as     723
H EqLdmpnt,I Vedbs   79   so       4    5      93    1    79        4
1. kwn. Opert EXpen  413  100     0    0    413    3       0      413
J. "F               400  100       0    0    400    3    400        0
TOet OI*bnunat    10.360   66  5.322  34  15.062  100  3s.7I 12.00
_.=        .  -    ; -  -  =_
1/     Includes contributions by government (saw fn the for  of counterpert
funds generated by forefgn aid), local commitfes, and beneficfaries.
C. PWect
5.3           The implemenion of the project will be carried out by the MU. As the
implementing body of the ASBL Twitezimbere, the MU has a large autonomy and its duties and
responsibilities are defined in the Frmework Agreement between the Government of Burundi and
the ASBL. The control on program management, which will be minimal ex-ante and strong
eacsot will be facilitated by a transent system. The OM describes In detail the management
system of the program as well as the criteria for project selecion, and the medhanm  for
concting, procuring, and disbursing fiuds. The mamnu  has been reviewed during appraisl,
and a revised version was submited to IDA prior to negodations. This new verson was
considered satisfactory following changes in some areas (such as procuurm    and contrctng);
it is an integral part of the Framework Agreemen between the ASBL and the government and
it needs to be at aU times acceptable to IDA. The proement and d      e          n
are more flexible dtm  those assoated with the public sector and will also provide for the
tranparency and equity necessary to ensure appropriate control of the proess. At negotiations,
the Government has submitted to IDA draft terms of reference for the techna ausine to be
provided both to the MU and to iSTEEBU (para. 7.1 (d)). The detail of technical assistance and
training programs is shown in Annex m. Close implemeon assistance wil be provided by
the Resident Mission.
D.
5.4           Table 5.4 summarz  the project elements and their estimated costs andproposed
methods of procurement.



-28 -
Table SA.: Procmeemnt AfM"
(in US$ miUlion)
Project Element             ICB       LCB        Other    Total Cost
1.  Works
1.1 Sub-project                                 1.7        0.6         2.3
(1.4)      (0.4)       (1.8)
2.  Goods                             1.0       1.5        3.1         5.6
2.1 Equipmentlvdedes                 (1.0)     (0,8)       (1.4)       (3.2)
4. ServIces
4.1 TecnIcal Assstance                                     1.4         1.4
(1.3)       (1.3)
4.2 Trining & Studies                                      0.5         0.5
(0.5)       (0.5)
4.3 Sodal Fund Taning, Techn.                              4.8         4.8
Assstance & Studies                                   (2.6)       (2.6)
5.Mscellneous
5.1   Inrementa Opeating Costs                             0.7         0.7
(0.6)       (0.6)
5.3 PPF Rdeancing                                          0.4         0.4
(0.4)       (0.4)
TOTAL                    1.0       3.2        11.5        15.7
.  (1.0)      (2.2)      (7.2)      (10.4)
Note: Fg    in pataitwest MDA Fkambn.
5.5           Procurement methods have been apt  since this project is targeted towards the
poor (especially women and unemployed youth) and will support: (a) income generatg activities
through training and tchnical assistance; O) rehabilitation of basic socia and economic
infrastructre; (c) social activities such as family planning and literay; (d) development of local
NMOs, mainly through techical assistamce and taing; and (e) poverty monitorng surveys.
Procum  methods will be responsive to the poverty alleviation a  ics of this project.
5.6           Ciil Works. Wors to be undatae will: (a) be small In size; (b) use labor
intensive techiques in order to employ as many pesons as possible; and (c) be scattered in
remote areas   oughout the country. ICB is therefore not an option. Ihe mic-enterprises
expected to bid on these works are among those selected and trained under the Bank-financed
Tort Sector Project. The MU wil maintain a roster of domestic conactors eligible for
LCB. They are maiy micro-enterises using labor intensive techniques. The types of works
to be financed include: the rehabilitation of primy schools, basic health facilities, feeder roads,
and other small community infmastructures.
5.7           For wors procured through LCB, tenders wfll be advertsed locally, bidders will
be given 30 days for submission of bids, evaluation, criteria will be specified, all bids will be



-29 -
opened in the praenco of bidders' reprentatves, no preference margin will be allowed for
national contractors, eligible foreign conators will be allowed to participate in the bidding
process, and standartd bidding documents will be used. Contact for works that will be higher
than US$30,000 will be awarded thruh LCB with a total aggregate of about US$1.4 million
and in accordance with prcedur  acceptable to IDA and consistent with the OM. Contcs
below US$30,000 will be awarded to local craftsmen on the basis of three price quotations with
an aggregate not to exceed US$400,000 and in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA and
consiStent with the OM. In most cases, the grouping of these conracts will not be possible
because it will involve different operators, different beneficiaries in different locations.
5.8           &da. Equipment, vehicles and materials to be purchased by ICB to the extent
possible will be grouped into bid packages esdtmat to cost US$100,000 with an aggregate
amount not to exceed US$1.0 milion. Qualifying domestic suppliers will be given a 15% margin
of preference, or applicable customs duty (whichever is less) over the c.i.f. prices of goods.
Contracts ranging from US$30,000 to US$100,000 will be procured by LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA and consistent with the OM, with an aggregate not to exceed US$0.8 million.
Contracts below US$30,000 (it is esimated that the size of each contract will be US$5,000 since
each sub-project will require different types of goods, carpentry tools, sewing machines, cooking
utensils, etc.) will be procred through local shopping procedures acceptable to IDA and
consistent with the OM, with an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1.4 million.
5.9          Ema   Services. Stadies Tiainin . For technical assistance (US$1.3 million),
taining and studies (US$500,000), consultants will be selected in  dance with -W rld Bank
Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Exeting
Agency- (Washington, D.C., August 1981). For the training, technical assistance, and studies
portion of the social find (US$2.6 million), consultants will also be selected in acdance with
the 'World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank
as Executing Agency (Washington, D.C., August 1981). These will be small contracts (average
size US$5,000) for: (a) sub-coractg the implemeon of micro-Projects to NGOs, local
branches of central govenment, and to community groups for income generation sub-projects;
(lb) taining of beneficiaries in basic skdlls; (c) training of NGO staff, (d) family planing and
literacy programs for social sub-projects.
5.10         Incremental Ogeradng Costs. Icemental operating costs, including small
supplies, operation and maintenance of equipm    and vehicles will be procured by local sthopping
procedures acceptable to IDA with a minimum of three price quotations. The tota aggregate
amount will not exceed US$600,000.
5.11         Procurement Managm=. Procurement wfll be carried out by the MU for works
undertaken by local firms for economic and social infstructures and for goods not avaable in
the provinces. In other cases, procurement will be carried out by the execufting agencies (NG(s)
for their suprojects. The MU wfll maintain and udate the roser of all digible contractors fr
civ; works. For the rehabilitation of social iasucture (mainly schoo and health centers),
the MU will assess whether to award contracts to local crftmen or use LCB. The assment
wiUl be based on the following criteria tehlbcal complexity and size of the works to be
undeken, willingness of the  mmunity to participate, and avawlabilitylexpertise of local
contactors in the region. In the case of community participation, the unskilled labor will be
provided free of chage, while the execuig agency (commune or NGOs) will provide the
skilled labor. For local purchases, the MU will reimburse the masons for locally purchased
maters based on receipts and checked against standard price lists held by the MU once the



- 30 -
works are satisfactorily completed. A ceiling wi be defined in each sub-project agreement. The
unit costs will be established by the MU based on surveys carried out by the local MU staff and
updated every three months. The unit costs will be acceptable at all times to IDA.
5.12         Bank'. Prior Review.   All bidding documents, contracts, and tender
documentaton for goods and services purchased under ICB will be subject to IDA prior review
of procurement of documenion   Bidding documents for LCB and local shopping for amounts
superior to US$50,000 will be reviewed by IDA prior to solicitation of bids. During supervision,
random post award review wll be carried out by IDA for contracts under US$50,000.
5.13             ny Priocurement Assessment. A country procurement assessment mission
conducted in 1986 found the adsting local procedures generally acceptable, except for the
preferential treatm   for local bidders. In this project, preferences for domestic m ers
and constructors wiU follow the provisions of the Banl's Procment Guidelines.
E. Disbursement
5.14         It is estmated that the IDA Credit would be disbursed over a period of five years.
Year-by-year disbursements of the Credit are esmaed as shown in table 5.5.
-rableSS:5 Disbursement Profile
ain USS million)
I  FflhthTowjFV94   FV5 F96 F9   Ii9
Anmsl CLuslatfve   1.4 72.0 72.8  _  _.4   0.
cumutative U      1.4   3.4   6.2   9.6   10.4
5.15         To be eligible for lDA fdng, al sub-projecs have to be leared by IDA unil
five sub-projects have been selected In each of the four categories of sub-projects (income
generati  activities / economic Insctr  / social inaue  / socia acvities)
(para. 7.4 (1)). If after this initia period of IDA review, procedures have been working
efficiently and effectively, IDA wil limit prior reiew to subojets of an amount above
US$100,000. If opeations are not working well, IDA may decide to continue full prior review
or otherwise adjust approval procedures. The proceeds of the credit wM be disbursed according
to Table 5.6.



-31 -
Tal1,: Allocadoa of LDA credit by Disbursement Cate2ot
(in US$ thousand)
Categuy                         3A M                        turo
SOCIAL CTtO PROGRA
1. Civit works                                 1.600 ___
2. Equipment and Materials                     2,100         100X of foreign
expendStures
SOX of local exrmeditures
3. Technical assistance                        2,250         SOX
Triinins and studies
POVERTY NOfITOhI
4. Equipment vehicles and nterSats              400          1002 of foreign
expendStures
SOX ot locat expendStures
5. Technical assistance                         1,500        1002
tralnln wand studies                                  _      _
6. Incremental operating exmenditures           200         95X
PRWOECT  iAnir .E
7. Eciuipment, vehicles and materfals           100          100X
8. Technical assistance                         450          1002 of foreign
expenditures
.___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __  _ _5__0X   tw local  exoenditures
9. Incremental operating exwenditures           400         95X
10. PPF refinancin                             4600
11. Unallocated                                1.000
U _           TOTAL                         10,400    .. ,
5.16           Si account. To facilite dmely project implementaton, the government will
establish, mantai and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, a special account
in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. An initi deposit of US$700,000 will be made, to cover
four months of eligible expenditures fnaced by IDA. The special account will be opeted by
the MU.  Disbursements will be flAy documed  except for expedtue  of less than
US$50,000, which will be disbursed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs).
Documents in suppott of SOEs would be retained by the MU and madeaailable to IDA for
review during supervision missions and to ernal auditors.
5.17           A project account wil aso be opened in a fiancial instution to channel the
government's contributionto the operatng costs of the project. An initial deposit of US$100,000
equivalent to cover one year of governmenal contribution will be a condition of credit
effectiveness (para. 7.3 (b)), and will be reflected in dhe 1993-95 PEP. At negotiatons, the
government committed itself to include the agreed provision in future PEPs para. 7.4 (e)).
F. AdMiM eor&ging and.Mdtg



-32 -
5.18         The MU wUI maintain separte acounts for the IDA contribution to the project
and will be responsible for compiling and consolidating the acuts. Such accounts shall be
mainined in accordance with sound and locally recognized accounting principles and practices
satisfactory to IDA. Although in the past some audits have been behid schedule, the situation
has improved and there are no ouBttanding audits in the soci sectors. For the Twitezimbere
project, a computerized Manaement Informaton System (MIS) will be instaled with external
assistance and maintained by the administrative and financial manager. Terms of reference for
the design of the MIS wiUl be reviewed by IDA before finalization, and a MIS which is acceptable
to IDA will have to be operational befre credit effectiveness (para. 7.3 (c)). The accounts,
statements of expenditures and documenttion rave to procurement will be audted twice a year
by an external auditor acceptable to IDA (para. 7.4 (c)) with a possibility to shift to annual
reports after the mid-term review if it is deemed desirable (para. 7.4 (d) (i)). The audits will be
fnancial as well as technical in the sense tha assessment of the physical realizations will be
checked to use their consistency with financial statements. During the first year of
implementation, however, audits will be carried out every our montis, with the previous audit
being submitted to IDA within two months after the end of the four month period referred to
(para. 7.4 (c)). After the first year of implementation, the audit reports will be submitted to the
Bank not later than three months following the end of the semi-annual period referred to. The
auditor's report will include a staement on the adequacy of the accountng system and internal
controls, the reliability of the statements of expenditures as a basis for loan disbursements,
compliance with financial covenants, and compliance with the Operational Manual. The report
will include a management letter.
5.19         Th: MU will prepare quarterly reports (para. 7.4 (a)) on the activities of the
project and will suwmit it to the SC and IDA. Every year, a more detailed report will be
prepared and submitted to IDA (para. 7.4 (b)). Ihe report will contain the results of financial
audit, a review of procurement performance, review of sub-projects performance, and the results
of the sub-project monitoring which will also provide information on the impact of the program
on the beneficiaries.



-33 -
5.20           noe Implementation schedule i provided In table 5.7.
TableSs:I _                  S
(in US$ million)
TOTAL
PROJECT EUWNT         Ta r   Ter   year   *        r    Test    AETOLE
__________                1      2      3   _ '          S____a 3
Il.CIvIltllrk                 a'  __   _-
PrequaL/Bid/Award         0.5   0.S    O.S    0.    0.3        2.3    151 Lan un 31
Civil works sub-proJects
2. 6oodB                    0.4   0.1    0.1    0.0               0.6       IC & ISILS
Equipaent/vehicles        0.8    0.9    1.0    1.2   0.8       4.7      IC1LCBISIL/
Equipment mterials for
social fund sub-projects
3. Cansultuictes            0.4    0.4   0.3    0.2               13    Bank  lddultnes
for Comtalt-
Tech,ical assistance
0.2    0.2    0.3   0.3                1    3.* Oidellnes
for Caguttents
Training A studles                                                    frCnutn
Training & stWies         0.8    0.9    1.0    1.2    0.8      4.7    anmk *dditnei
for Conmuttuts
Socils Fund TAf
Trsining & Studies
4. Niscettansas              0.2    0.2    0.2    0.1   0.1       0.6    Loalt Shqfno
Increm. Oper. Costs       0.4                                  0.4               */A
PPF ref financing
TOTAL             3.7   3.2    3A    3.S    2.0        15.7
(Uunk-fti  e       1.4    2.0    2.8    3.4    0.8     10.4
5.21           A comprehensive implementation review wil be carried out by IDA every year
to assess thl value of the set of perfomace indicators used by the MU. A mid-project review
will be carried out between 20 and 30 months after the date of Credit effectiveness (pan. 7.4 (d).
In collboration with the goverment, the mid-term  review  will: (i) assess progress in
implementing overl project objectives, (i) verify the Continued validity of the design
assumptions in light of implmenttion ewperience and the evolving context within which the
project is being implemented, and (Qi) agree with the government on a plan of action for
neceary adjustment andlor other project design modifications. In addoion to dte overal
objectives, the mid-term review wil more specifically fine-u    operating procedures as well as
the institutional structure of project implementation. It wil also assess progress on the poverty
monitoring cov ponent to see if capacity at ISTEEBU is sufficient to carry out the Integrated
Survey; assess tie desirability of epanding the social action program from the three pilot zones
to other areas; and asss the desirability of reducing the number of audits from semi-anual to
an annuial basis. Annex V prens the supervision program necessary to monitor the project



-34 -
VI. BNRE S H AND SXR
6.1          lts. The ultimate benefit of the project i to upgrade the living conditions
of poor and vulne¢able groups of population (particularly women and youth) through hmproved
producvy, pote ly ncreased employment opporamities, and enhanced acces to essent
scial Iuctu.  he cmmuity where these groups live will beneit from: (i) the products
of the work they will peaform; (I) better education, health and sanitation serices, and (iii) other
collective goods to the production of which they will be associated.  The project wiU also
provide an opportunity for existing local NGOs to expand, and for new ones to be created.
Finally, thrugh its survey and study component, the project will allow the govermuent to
improve its knowledge of poverty and thus its formuladon of both social and mac-economic
policy.
6.2         EIks. Main risks associated with the social action component of the project
relate to the low management capacity of local NGOs and to the lack of entrepreneurial
experience of the target populations, which could lead to inefficient project implementation,
especialy with regards to income geneatang actvities, which require intensive monitoring. To
avert these risks, an emphasis will be put on providing basic trning for beneficiaries and
executing aencies, objective and carefully designed sets of sub-project selection criteria have
been defined, and technical asismce wfll be prvided for sub-project appraisal. Strong sub-
project supervision, a transparat management information system, and random audng of
accouts will enhance management efficiency. Local NGOs will be assisted by experienced
ternational NGOs, so as to upgrade their stll low appraising and managing capacities. The risk
that only the better off fracti  of the poor will benefit from the BURSAP will be lessened thans
to a vigorous promotion campaign, thugh aprri  criteria and access threholds, and
bendiciary assessment methods of evaluation. The risk that some part of the poverty monitoring
componen be too difficult a task for ISTEEBU to undertake will be reduced through capacity
building of this institution and a mid-term project assessment of the program. Finally, the risk
that e government wil attempt to limit the autonomy of the MU will be addressed through an
innvative institutional framework which entrusts the execution of the project to a non-profit
oraiaton.
VI. ACES ANICOMMENDATIONS
7.1          Before negoiations, the government has:
(a)   submitted to IDA for approval the draft Framework Agreement between the
government and the ASBL (para. 4.1);
(b)   ofcly recognized the ASBL "Tweitimbere with a statute acceptable to IDA
(para. 4.1);
(c)   appointed the officer responsible for promotion activities with terms of reference,
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA (paras. 4.5 (b) and 4.24);



-35 -
(d)   submitted to IDA for pproval the terms of reference of technia asstance for
the MU (including the design of tie MIS) and for ISTEEBU (paras. 4.16 and
5.3);
7.2          Prior to Bow             the Framework Agreement was signed by the
goverUnent and the ASBL "Twteaimbere (para. 4.1).
7.3          Credk            would be conditioned by the following measures:
(a)   the MU has selected 25 sub-projecs for financing and IDA has approved the
selection of at least 10 of those sub-projects (para. 4.26);
(b)   the project account has been opened and the inidal deposit in an amount
equivalent to US$100,000 has been deposited by the Borrower (para. S.17); and
(c)    a management information system acceptable to IDA has been insted in the
MU and is opetional (pars. 4.16 and S.18).
7.4          During negodations, the following agreements were reached:
(a)   short quarterly reports on the actes of the project will be submitted to IDA
(para. 5.19);
(b)   detailed annual reports will be submitted to IDA, including financial and
procur t performace of the MU (comining the findings of the indqeendent
aut)  a review of sub-project performance, and a review of sub-project
monitoring(par 5.19);
(c)    tree times a year during the first year of implenion and twice a year
thereafer, an independent audit report will be submitted to IDA coveing both
technical and fiancial aspects of the project. During the first year these reports
will be submitted not law  ta two months after the end of the four-month
period refered to and after the fis year not later than three months following
the end of the semi-annual period refeed to (para. 5.18);
(d)   a mid-term review wil be conducted jolnty by IDA and the government between
20 and 30 months after credit effectiveness (para. 5.21); the review will make
decisions, interal  on: (i) the opportunity of decrasng the periodicity of audit
reports from a bi-ammal basis to an amnul one (pare. 5.18); Qi) the opporunity
for the extansion of the geographical coverage of the project (para. 3.8); and (iii)
the launchiog of the Integrated Survey (para. 3.19);
(e)   the annual replenishment of the project account is to be programmed in the PEP
(parm. 5.17);
(f)   any change to the statute of the ASBL, to the Agreement between the ASBL and
tht ovemment, or to the Operational Manual is submitted to IDA for approval
(parws. 4.2 and 4.3);



- 36 -
(g)    ie agency s to betaff  at all times by competent peoel with ums of
ernc, eperience, and qualificadtions atablo to IDA (Wa. 4.4);
(h)   all sp-projects wil be nipleted In the provines of Ngozi, Muylnga, and
Muramrya. Unil mid-tem rview, al sub -project rqest fiom other provinces
will require non-objection from IDA (pm. 3.8);
(i)   the first five subproject requests under each of theour type of sub-projects for
the Social Acion Project wil be submitted to IDA for pproval (para S. 15).
7.5          Subject to the above asurnces and conditions, ths project consties a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of SDR 7.5 million (JS$10.4 mllion oquIale) to the Republic of
Bunrdi on standard IDA terms.



csL Twiteat txwr
Board
[11111]                    [.~~~~~~~~~1                         I  ~~NINISTh 
PLN
.  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
Dfrector
Promotfon             Deateto                   nrsrcure               Achinfstration
Department          rv gYj-eerating              "atetwdFirr
actIv ties and of
social projects0



- 38 -
ANNEX X
Page 1 of 12
I!OVERTY DMOI1UMN
haczoud and coton
Statistics have beet collected in Burndi since the beginning of the 20th cenury, however, the
production was modest and limited to some specific domais. Durinp the 30s, demographic and
agriculture statistics were developed, but It was only after the second world war that an institutional
framework actually authorized statistical investigation. In 1948, a decree allowing the colonial
govermen to produce statistcs on the demographic, social, and economic situatlons of the colony was
under a Colonial Council for Statistics, however, data produced by this council was recognized later as
quite unreliable. In 1964, a national statistical service the "Institut Rundi de la Statistique" (IRUSTAT)
was created. Administd by an Administrton Council, its role was to improve knowledge in the
staisdcs, demography, and economy of the country. Its mission was to: V implement statistical surveys,
ii) give technical support to other national institutions, and iHi) insure training in statistics for intermediate
governmem staff. Since then, different decrees have modified the stats and the name of this instltutions,
the latest one in 1990 transformed the "Service national des Etudes Statistiques' (SNES) to the 'Institut
de Statistiques et dEtudes Economiques du Burundi' (STEEBU). The ISTEEBU was set up as an
administrtion with financial autonomy under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Planning, its role is to
I) promote statistical activities in Burundi, ii) perform socioeconomic studies based on the
country'statitcs, iii) organize statistical training sessions, iv) insure coordination among all statistical
services in the administration, and iv) coordinate technical activities with foreign statistical institutions.
1SEEBU consists of four services in charge of: i) administraton and finance for personnel and
logistics, ii) statistical data processing responsible for data collection, procesing and editing of all survey
data, iii) economic and socil sbtdies and analysis of all statistics produced by all national institutions,
and iv) docu-ntaton and publication as well as computer management of the instte. These services
have limited human and equipment resources. Personnel consists of:
Senior staff
1 Statistician/Economist (ISE)
1 Statistician (Statistical State Engineer - MES)
1 Master of Sciences (minor in statistics)
7 LT.S (Statstical Engineer)
S Economists
I Agronomis
1 Legal specalist
bltemediar staff
12 Statisticians (technical assistant)
3 Filing clerks
1 Secretary (executive secretary)



- 39 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 12
SumDoff
4 Statistical clerks
9 clerks
57 others
The institute does not have any computer specialist. Computer equipment is utterly insufficient, with only
5 old micro computers in relatively worn condition. Last the institute does not have enough cars to
support field operation.
In the last 2 decades few surveys have been implemented at SNES/ISTEEBU. In 1978-79 a
household budget consumption survey was carried out In Bujumbura. In 1986 a series of rural household
surveys were implemented with foreign technical and finacial assistance. In 1991 a household
expenditure survey was implemented in Bujumbura. National accounting was set up with the assistance
of french statisticans as well as the establishment of a consumer price index for Bujumbura which
continues to be published regularly, despite the fact that the base year is now out of date. In addition to
these major activities, ISTEEBU compiles and publishes many kinds of statistics on a daily basis - a
monthly butletin on prices, a quarterly bulletin of statistics, a stadsdcs year book of prices, a statstics
year book, the economic account of Burundi, car statistics, and the enterprise repertory. Other specific
publications are released for surveys or studies implemented for the institute or others. Publication costs
are high because ISTEEBU has to hire private publishers, which is often a cause of delay for releasing
results and publications.
Oter Instittion Reoible for Stadisfi
The Department of Population (DPOP) under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Inteior Affairs
is based in Gitega and is responsible for organizing and implementng the Population Census and to
process civil registration statistcs. DPOP has executed two censuses, one in 1979 and one in 1990 with
donors financial and technical assistance. The results of the 1990 census were released in July 1992 and
DPOP will receive UNDP assistance to carry out further analysis on age structure, population
distribution, education, economic char es of the population, population growth, and households
and housing. ISTEEBU is not a member of the national committee established to supervise the
implementation of the census, however. DPOP is also planning to launch a follow up operation for the
vital registration to elaborate a population atlas and to carry out a Demographic and Health Survey in
1994 to be finmced by UNFPA. The department consists of several intrmediary statisticians and only
one demographer. Analysis of surveys results remains a problem and requires recourse to external
technical assistance.
Agricultural statics are produced by the Miistry of Agriculture and mainly concern agricultural
production. Data on industrial crops we generally satisactory, which is not the case for data on food
crops. This has led to the creation of a special project -Systbme d'Alerte Rapide et de Gesion de
l'Information Alimentairew (.3ARGIA) that in the near future will become "Division de l'Information
Agricolew (DIA) to play the role of the agricultural statistical office. It is expected that agricultural
statistics will play a more important role in this sector's planning than in the past. The current SARGIA's
program foresees the establishment of a permanent agricultural surveys system. The first survey executed
in 1991-92 with ISTEEBU's assistance, set a price and crop monitoring system and gave estimates for
food crops production. Resolts are expected by the end of 1992. SARC4IAIDIA will also set up for the



- 40 -                                 ANNEXH
Page 3 of 12
Ministry of Health, a mitritional monitoring system for children 5 to 6 years old in primary school who
were registered at 0-6 months old in public health centers.
Social sector statistics production has been supported by donor assistance. Health statistics are
processed by 'Sous-direction do l'Epiddmiologie et des Statistiques" (EPISTAT) mainly for general public
health stistics and primary health care. Two other services 'le Projet Elargi de Vaccination et de Lutte
contre les Maladies Transmissibles de lEnfance n (PEVICCCD - Combatng Children Communicable
Diseases) and "Programme do Lutte contre les Maladies Carentielles" (PLMC) gather statistical data on
vaccination and nuition. EPISTAT received support from the Population and Health Project (computers
and training), however well trained staff are expected to strengften the service and ensure regular
production of statistics and analysis. PEVICCCD releases bulletins on diseaes under surveillance. Data
is complete for the years 1980-1990 with good coverage even thougb unequally distributed because of
its dependance on parents and health stars commitment In 1990, the service carried out a household
survey on vaccination coverage. PLMC gathers children'surveilance data in 236 health centers and
produces a monthly map. However, the exercse is limied to the ratio of weight/age and the rate of
coverage is only good for chldren under 1 year old. Information is less reliable for older children as
visiting health centers becomes less systeatic.
Education stistics and production of school mapping have Improved recenty with the assistance
Of the 'Projet d'Appui I la Planification Scolaireo financed by UNESCO and the World Bank. The
project provided for micro computers and tedhnical assistance at the planning service of the Ministry of
Primary and Secondary Education. Tlis service also process statisdcs for tertary education. Delays
observed in the past in the release of statiseics publications have been remedied and data is of good
coverage and quality. Publications concern data on the evolution and distribution of pupils, students and
teachers and on infiastructure. Activities planned for the service include a survey on Household
expenditure for education.
Employment statistcs are produced by the 'Direction de la Planification des Ressources
Humaines' (DPRH) at Ministry of Labor and Social Security. Ihe production is relatively regular as
weU as the release of quarterly and yearly publications. Informaion released concerns mainly monthly
reports of the labor market situation by activity in the modern sector. DPRH has recently encountered
difficulties in collecting information on job offers since enteprises have been authorized to recruit
personnel directly without involving the ministy services. The informal sector surveys have been carried
out for the urban sector in 1989 (with USAID's assistance) and in 1991-92 for the rural craft sector (with
UNDP's assistance). The results of the 1989 survey have been published and the results of 1991-92 are
currently being processed. Other stadstics are being gathered by the Natonal Isttue   of Social Seurity
(INSS) and the Ministry of Public Labor on employment in the formal sector and in the administraion.
Sttsical Trainig
There is no formal stascal training instite in Burundi. The University provides a two-year
courses in statistics for intermediary staff at the 'Institute Supdrieur de Commerce' (ISCO). Contrauy
to what happens in other places, ISTEEBU is not associated with either the selecon of the candidates
or the elaboration of the traing progrm  However, ISTEEBU Is organing a contest every year for
students who would like to ad  statical training in the school of Kigali, Yaound6 or Abidjan. Every
odter year a contest is otganized for the Demographic school of Yaoundd. Fellowships are provided by
the europeans (FE) and the french (FAC) to those who are admitted. Unfortatey very few burundese
sudents prepare for these contets and as a result are not admited to these trainings. There are only
three burundese stdent in training in Abidjan and one in Kigali.



- 41 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 12
PSoje Justification
In general, the sttistcd apparatus in Burundi does not satisfy the demand from various users.
Statistcs production is scared, dentralized in various institutions and characterized by the absence
of noms and coordination. Mm erratic release of ISTEEBU publications, such as the national accounts,
and delays encountered In deliverig some surveys results, for example the 1986-90 Household Budget
Surveys, have tarnished Its credibility.   Because sectoral surveys are implemented without its
participation or involvement, ISTEEBU is ignored when producing dat on the sectors or local
communities which has induced dipersion of human resources. JSTEEBU's staff is young and relatively
inexperienced. Senior staff mobility does not encourage capitalization of expertise acquired during
important data collection operations like household budget surveys. At ISTEEBU it is acually impossible
to find any staff member who participated in the 1986 survey.
It Is genealy established that in the sectoral admions, as weU as at ISTEEBU, available
infornation is Insufficient and technical expertise is lacking. The coverage of sistical fields is
incomplete, sistical acivities lack coordination (the Ws. population census was Implemented without
any participation of ISTEEBU), and there is lack of har, onization among methodologies (data produced
by the Minstry of Labor or other institons i.e. USAT ), UNICEF, have not been collected on samples
large enough to give inrmation on and indicat  fo. socioeconoemics groups.)
Improving the burndese statistical system will require the strengthening of ISTEEBU as it
remains the only structure where it is possible to find more than ten statisticians and where ifomtion
from several fields of economic activities are being processed. Some recenly creaed organizations are
failing to play teir role of eiter producer or user of social staists because of Insufficient human
resources and equipment. For example, in the case of the 'Bureau dtude et de Planification du
Mlnistere de la Promotion Feminine, strengthening this service should be considered in the framework
Of this project by Waining staff in data processing and analysis of suvey rslts.
The whole burundese appatus needs to be strengthened through  aining of stf. Ihis task,
however, is beyond the fiamework of this project. The IWITEBEEE survey and study component,
as described below, wil focus on strengthening the production of stastics relevant to measurement and
monitoring of living conditions which is considered a priority for this project. However, instutions like
INSEE, EUROSTAT and ECA on one hand, and bilateral donors agencies on the other, are interested
in stengthening other parts of the burundese staWtical apparaus. In addtion to improving poverty
indicators, the project also aims to develop improved coordination between staistics producers and
statistics users to avoid redundant usage of scarce resources by: i) supportig the activities of a users
committee, ii) support   access to data for sectoral analysis by wide disn of the project's survey
resuts, and Hii) bitegag these re    into the conweption and evaluation of economic and sectoral
policies.
ISIEEBU will be the execudng agency for the surveys for the following reasons: i) its mission
of national coordination of statstca work, ii) its need to improve its staffs capacity and expetise, and
il) Its vocation for carrying quantitatie socioeconomic studies.



- 42 -
Page 5 of 12
Dcgd  of e RerxMonPng Cgmv=
Obecive. The objective of this component is to generate data on the evolution of the k6y aspects of
welfare over time to monitor social conditions and the microeconomic and welfare impacts of the policy
reform underway with the structural adjustment program. To trace the evolution of selected determi
of welfare and welfare outcomes, the project will pay particular attention to: (a) the evolution of living
standards over time (consumption of food and other essentials, nutritional status,satisfaction of basic
needs, demand behavior in certain areas as health, schooling, and housing amenities); (b) the
identification of poor groups in need of targeted assistance to raise their income and consumption
potentialities; (c) the participation of different population groups in specified sectors of activity and
economic growth; and (d) personal reactions to, and the distribution of benefits from, chages in relative
incentives between sectors and lines of production as induced by the process of structual adjustment.
Sur    Proga m.
Three surveys will be undertaken during the TWTEZIMBERE five-year program - two priority
surveys (PS) and one integrated survey (IS). These surveys will be accompanied by commui modules.
During the project preparatory p: ase, ISTEEBU will complete processing and publication of the
results of the 1986-90 Rural Household Budget Consumption Surveys (HEBCS). Two consultants (a
computer specialist and a statistician) have been recruited on short term contracts under the PPF and with
FED's participation. This funding also allows the purchase of microcomputer equipment and will cover
other costs involved in data processing. lhe results of this analysis is expected by the end of 1992 and
will give a first insight into the living conditions of households over the period 1986-90. Ihese results
will be use to set up a targeting system for vulnerable groups and to determine a classification of
socioeconomic groups.
The Priority Survey (PS) is a rapid survey that can be used to diapos   e houshold's
socioeconomic situation. The PS focuses on a set of selected indicators that will allow this diagnosis and
the classification of the households into socioeconomic groups. This survey is designed to produce only
dependan variables. When repeated over time, it becomes a tool for monitoring and measuring the
evolution of the population's living standards.
The sample design is based on the necessity to represent the socioeconomic groups to allow
follow-up of the variables of concern and to keep a tight timetable for the operations. The 1990
population census will be used as a sampling frame. After the release of the final results in July 1992,
ihe DPOP will make avalable to ISTEEBU a copy of the files and al technical detaft necesay to draw
the sample (repertories for the hills and enumeration areas, census mapping data). The sample
chareristis will be fixed with a sampling expert's assistance. The opporamity to draw a master sample
for the three surveys will also be determined. In any case, as the PS will be carried out three years after
the census, it will be necessary to carry out a listing operation in order to update the census list
Ihe PS sample will consist of a random selection of households. Enumeration areas (EAs) wiUl
be drawn with probability proportional to the size of their population. To increase the sample efficiency
the EAs will be classified in homogenous strata such as: major uran Bujumbura, other urban, and rura
according to ago-dimatic zones. To avoid too much variation in the EAs size, large EAs will be divided
and smaler ones will be regrouped. Within these segments, clusters of 8 to 20 households will be drawn.
The size chosen for urban or rural areas may differ. This size will be fixed by the sampling expert
according to the stratas homogeneity, the sample distribution, and the needs for the selection of vaiables



- 43 -
Page 6 of 12
for the questionnaire. Tbe households will be selected with equal probability to provide for a self-
weighted national sample. It may be necessary to Increase some groups rbecaustheq am
too small or too scoretd and their represenon within the sample is crical. It may alo be necessary
to identf SEGs at the listing stage within the cluster to ta hese   into accunt  in the houseolds
selection. This procedure wUIl ensure a good represenion of these groups In the sample.
The size of the sample Is fixed according to the mnmber of SEGs to be reprsented in the sample.
For the sample to be efficient, each group should be repreed by SO  to 600 houholds.
Dermination of the SEGs will be the responsibility of the sampling expert using Information to be
gathered by ISTEEBU. Results from the 1990 cemus, HBCSs and the surveys on the Infnmal sectors
carried out by the Mnistry of Labor will be used for the determnaionof the SEGs. However the
following classificadon may probably emerge:
(a) Rural:
- fming wage-eaners
- other wage-earners (private or public)
- farmers (imdependent)
- other non-wage-earners
(b) Urban:
- public sector wage-eamers
- wage-earners in private sector and iformal sector
- foral prvate sector wage-earners
- employers, traders (formal sector)
- unemployed
- others
The stae  to be followed for repeaing the survey over the years, to monitor the evolution of
the SEGs and indicators will be determined when designing the sample. Ihe options are: (a) use of a
master sample, (b) use of a household panel to be followed up during the period, or (c) use of the same
sample of households or EAs. Each option has its limitations and the date the censs final relt are
expected also limits the possiblity of choice for the first PS.
The questionnaire for the PS Is used in a single visit to the houseld. During this visit, the head
of the household is interviewed for about one hour. Evenuly the other household membs participate
in the genesaion of their household incoma. The questionnaire helps gather Info n an the
household as well as on the members.
The questionnaire consists of ten sections as follows 1/: household's   idfication; list of
household' s members and their backgound charactristics (demography, educaon, health and
employment status); employment information for the head of the household and other acdve member;
houig, utlities, acess to public services; work migrations; descrption and producdon of the household'
s holdings; char  tics of the household's non-farm entetrises including acevitis during the past 12
I/A fuil dacription of the PS methodology and questionnaire  sts in T7he Soci Dimnsons of
Adjustmet Pdort Survey, Working Paper No.12, Survey and Statistics, Wodd bank 1990.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
months; housebold expenditr (ealth, oducation, mnjor frequent purchases); household's Incomes by
sources; household's assets and;  oponetic measurements for children uwder 5 years old.
Forms for the listing operaton will be prepared using the sampling expert's recommendatons.
The selection of the households will be drawn from this list. Mnuals for inteuviewers, superisors and
data entry clerks wfll be prepared by ISTEEBU with tecdhical assistae.
Data Collection and Data Entry. The survey implementaton is organized to ensure timely release
of the smvey rest. Data collection is based on the deployment of 10 to 12 mobile teams of 2 to 3
inteiewes attached to four regional offices (Bujumbura, Gtega, Ngozi and Bumri). The regional
offices are equipped w   mi c e  where a data entry clerk enters and checs the data as soon
as they come from the field. Ihe data entry program also checks for strutre, foma and consistency.
Proximity of the BAs allows for quick checking of errors by rurning to the houstholds for correcdon.
There are several very efficient and user friendly computer packages available able to carry out this tasks.
ISTEEBU will choose a package according to the survey requirements and to experience already gained
by its personnel.
The data entry program should be prepared simultaneously with the questionnaire in order to be
tested together during a pilot survey. The pupose of this is to test and finalize the design of the
questonnr, the data entry program and the survey organization. The field staff is organized in teams
of two to fthree interiewers with a data entry clerk, a driver and a supervisor. Ihe role of the superisor
is to organie the tam's work and to ensure the quaity control and communication between his team and
the survey central tmagement team. He is also responsible for caryig  out the community survey when
necesr. Senior staff at ISEEBU wl be responsible for m _an g data collection, prgmming and
analysis. Iheir role of executive supervision is crucial for data quality.
The bgmated Survey. This survey is more complete than the PS. While the PS gives only
a broad desaiption of the households' conditions, the IS seeks for explanations and causes in order to
better understand the cooping mechanisms used by the households to integrate the strucural adjustment
efects and to explan how and why households react to conts and changes in the economic contemt.
In a sensetheIS is complementary  the PS. The IS lasts aful year in the feld during which a smaller
sample of households (3000 average), is observed. Infomation is collected for each household on a
montored period of one month and on retospective periods of 3 or 12 months, for expenditure and
incomes. Durdg the monitored pedod, the households are visted sevr  times (two visis minimum)
to inrease the quality of the informatio gathered.
The sample is drawn the same way for the IS and the PS. I is possible that specific groups will
be more focused than oth. Ihe sample vil be designed to ensure that 400 to 500 households are
selected for each analytical field.
The IS que      e is applied in two rounds corresponding to the questionnaire's two parts.
The first concerns essentally ifrmaon on the households' members whie the second part conceates
on the economic pefomac of the household. The advange of the multiple runds is to cut off what
would be othewise a very tus interview, and to provide for delimitation of a reference period to
monitor household etxp ur. The queosonnaire consists of 12 sectis as follows:



- 45 -
ANNEX n
Page 8 of 12
Sect i on                Taroeted respondents
First loswd
1. Household mearers list      All fndividuals in the household
2. Education                   Hembers 7 years old and over
3. Health                      All tMaers
4. Eaplowmnt and time use      Members 7 years old and over
5. MIgration                   Nenrers 15 yeors old and more
6. Respordents for 2nd round   Head of household
7. HoRl na                     Head of household
Second Nowd
a. Agriculture and livestock  Holders, person responsfble
Processing of productfon
Consuption of home produce
9. Household expenditure      Person responsible
10. Hon-farm enterprises       Chief of enterprise
11. Transfer and other ineomes   Head of household
12. Credits, assets and saving    Head of household
13. AnthropEMetrics            Children under 5 years old
The subjects are similar to the PS but are more detailed here 21. The quesdonnaie conten
will be adaped accordig to the PS results and the users committee recommendaton
Community Module and Survey. These modules aim to provide data at the community level
(prices, services) to complement the analysis of the household level data. lhis wl allow a study of the
meso-micro links. Such a module will be applied together with the IS in the sampling localities.
Respondents wil be local authorites and people responsible for public services. The module consists of
three main sections:
(a) access and use of public services in the vicinity: markets, primary and secondary
schools, health centers, hospitals, public transport etc..;
(b) road infastructure, electrification, potable water etc..;
(c) prices, which consist of collecdng price information on a list of products several times
a day at different sale polns in the locality.
The PS module can be developed to include group-interviews of people of both sexes and of
different responsibilities in the community. This survey will produce more detailed inforation on the
needs of the cmmuity, the level of satisfaction of the populaton using the local services, on the
i _ smeaft faced by the populadon in using these services and the difficuties of the personnel who nu
these services.
2/A full descripton of the IS including a prototype questionnaire is given in 'The Integrated Survey,
A Survey to Measre Poverty and Understand the Effects of Policy Change on Households", July
1991, World Bank Report Nr. 9482-APR



- 46 -
ANNEX q
Page 9 of 12
Surve Scheduls
Over the five-year period, four years will be devoted to suvey Implementation. The rest of the
time will be used for preparing the surveys or for analyzing the results, as shown in the following table.
PSI     1. Preparation       January 1993 - Jure 1993
2. Zupl.m.ntation    July 1993 - Septuiber 1993
-       3. Analysis.studies   October 1993 - Oecember 1993
IS      1. Prepration        October 1993 - June 1994
2. Iptementation    July 1994 - June 1995
3.AnalysIs. studies  July 1995  Oeceber 1996
PS2     1. PreoaratIon       January 1997 - Jume 1997
2. Ipimaentstlon     July 1997 - Septemter 1997
3. Analysis, studies  October 1997 - December 1997
Afte each survey, a report to evaluate the quality of the data will be produced. For the IS it will
be possible to produce preliminary reports using the first six months data as these results will be based
on a sample large enough to be reliable at the national level.
During the intermediary period between IS and PS2, a part from the preparation of PS2 wil
focus on in-depth and comparative analysis of IS and PSI.
During the final year the whole survey program will be evaluated, lessons will be drawn from
experience to set up the follow up of the monitoring program and to design future surveys.
InstitudonalPrmw
ISTEEBU will be responsible for executing this component. Ihe Director of ISTEEBU will be
the national director for the component. Statisticians and other senior staff in this institute will be in
charge of survey implementaton.
Funding will be channeled through the TWITEZIMBERE Management Unit, which will be
responsible for disbursement and comnicatig with the donors.
A Users Committe  will be established to discuss the survey contents, dermine priority for
statistics production In the project context, oversee terms of reference for studies to be carried out with
the surveys data, ensure timely diffusion of the survey results as well as ensure that these are take into
account by the country's decisionmakers.
Field staff training programs will be carried out for each pilot and main surveys. hterviewers,
supervisors, and data entry clerks wil receive training adapted to their responsibilities in the operation.
Staff will be reuited or replaced on the basis of their marks in the selection tests and on their observed
aptiude to carry out the survey tasks.



- 47 -
Page 10 of 12
ISTEEBU senior staff, satsticians and computer specialists will be trained in survey techniques
In order to fmuiliarize them with their responsibilities for organizing, superviing the field work and data
processing, and carrying out the analysis.
Complementary training wil be given to the senior staff through local and regional semias and
workshops on subjects such as sampling, data collection, data analysis and computer science. The project
also provides for long term training overseas, where some senior staff, chosen for their ability, will
receive complementary training on specific areas. Details of the training program will be specified at an
early stage of the project.
ISTEEBU senior staff will participate in seminws and workshops organized for the African
statisticians working on the Social Dimensions of Adjustment initiatives where they wfll be able to benefit
from and share other African countries' experience.
A training program for the users should be set up to improve the capacity of the staff of the line
ministries study and planification departments. They will be trained to use the data produced by the
project surveys and to integrate them in the design of sectoral policies. It will also be possible to
organize with ISTEEBU, the University and other qualified institutions training sessions to introduce
computer use and statistics as well as data analysis.
TenW Aslitac
The key for project success will be the motivation and qualification of the staff in charge of
implementation. An evaluation of ISTIEBU personnel has shown that senior staff lack experience
paricularly in data analysis. The project provides funds for hiring a long-term consultant for a two-year
period. His role will be to assist ISTEEBU personnel in launching and executing the PS activities and
for preparing the IS. He will support the Director in organizing and managing the activities, and will
support the analysis of the PS. He will be responsible for training ISTEEBU senior staff by ort;anWing
taining seminars and ensuring implementation of the training program.
Ihe project will provide for 11 man/months of international consultation for specific training
activities for the pre;i *ation of the sampling (2m/m), for computer programming (4 Win), and for data
analysis (5 W/m).
The project provides for 20 m/m of local consultation. This concerns, specifically, support for
computer programming ad data analysis and for publication of the resuts. Arrangements will be made
with the University and other local institutions for training.
Study Program. Seminars and Dissemination of Results
Along with the project implementaion, studies will be carried out at different stages of the data
production. Tbis study program will stat with the publication of the PSI results. A study program will
be established with the support of consultants on the basis of the 'Analysis Plans for Understanding the
Social Dimensions of Adjustment" I/, and based on the priorities fixed by the Users Committee. It
will be preferable for the study program to be animated by the planning divisions at te Ministry of
Planning becase these divisions would be the best judges of adequacy to ensure fiul integration into
1/World bank, Report Nr. 8691-Aft, 1990



- 48 -
ANNE n
Page 11 of 12
policy design and policy implementation. The analysis of the data collected in the project cont will
logically follow the different axis of the social dimensions of adjustment and development. Generally
there are two axis: the market used by the different SEGs, and the satsfaction of basic needs. As
constraints differ for men and women, it is suggested that the analysis on these axis be conducted
separately. In general terms, the elements for an analysis approach will include the following:
1. Behavior accotding to the labor market:
in-depth analysis of target groups like young people, emphasizing their
employment characteristics
training-employment match
remployment, employment supply and remumeration (wage- earning manpower)
*     migration
2. Behavior according to the credit market:
monetary and non-monetay saving at the household's level
demand and use of credit for production and consumption
sources and cost of credit
3. Behavior according to the product market:
characteristics and revenues for family, farming and non-farming enterprises
food and non-food consumption; food security at the household's level
*     non-food expe.iditure
4. Bebhaior according to basic needs:
-     access to health care and household's choice for health care
nutritional status
?     ^)behavior toward fertility
household's choice concerning children's education
* housing conditions, access to potable water, sanitafti etc..
5. Poverty Profile:
calculation of poverty indicators by region and SEGs
ranalysis of the sources of incomes and of the composition of consumption for the
poor and the non-poor
The Users Committee will be responsible for determining the priories for dte analysis. The
necessity for more specific or in-depth studies will become evident parallel with the needs for planning.
These studies canmot be anticipated at this stage, however, it is possible to suggest the following:
fisc policy: what are the effects of a specific consumption tax? (demand, substitution
effects, tax receipts, social equity)
public expenditure: what are the effects at individuals' level of a specific deterioration
of the composition of the public expenditure against the health sector (availability and
quality of primary health care, effects on the households' choice for health care and in
terms of health and nutrition status)?



- 49 -
Page 12 of 12
This kind Af ample could be developed with more details for monetay policy measues, price
policy, exchange and trade policy. Ihe Users Committe with the conksultans asitae If necessary,
could develop a detailed study program.
Seminars and workshops for dissemination will be orgnized to present the survey results, or to
present and discuss the findings and conclusions of the major studies. The purpose of these meetins wiUl
be for the participants to discuss the findings and policy implications and make recomions to the
Government.



- 50 -
ANNE m
Page 1 of 4
TEINICAL ASSISIC1 AND TRAEWNG P
L.  113CCAL 4ANCIDA
1.1   Lol Staff from the Management Unit
1.1.1  PRCGRAM MANAGEENT
The Program Manager is responsible for managing daily the program's
activides and its resources. More specifically, those responsibilities are as follows:
-     coordinate and control the activides of the progrm;
-     promote and negotiate financial resources for the benefit of the Program;
-     Implement the rules and regulations of the program;
-     eestablish the annual budget and the activities of the program;
-     organize the recruiting of the Program staff;
- manage the Program staff;
comment on the Program's appraisal and audit reports;
-     represent he Program in the court of law.
1.1.2  =M          INDFINA                 ARTMENTDIEC7OR
Under the supervision of the Program Director, the Administratve and
Finnca Director's responsibilities will be as follows:
-     ensure the proper managemert of all Program's resources;
-     establish the logistic of the Program;
-     contribute to the establishment of the Progam's budget;
-     monitor the application of rules and standard regading administratives and
finncial operations of the Program;
-     report on the various aspects of the administaive and financi management
of the Program;
-     monitor carefilly accounting records and the implemention of financial
operations on a cash basis;



- 51 -                               N =
Page 2 of 4
-     ensurethe  finanec  follow-up of projects;
-     participate In the selection of extension agencies and Implementation units;
-     ensure administratives and financi relationships with paters of the
Progam;
-     facilitate the work in auditing Program accounts;
-     enlsure that the data and management system of Program activites are going
wen.
1.1.3 DEE= OF THE MANG DEPARTMENT
The marketing activities involve the sensitization of target populations and of
organizion which demonstrate a real and potental partnership to the Progm  objectives, and
their support of the projects identification and design.
The marketing director will be responsible for, mainly:
ceatin   madratg materia (eaflets, manals of directives to prepare a
project, communicadjons with medias, etc.);
leading sensitizaon campaign with potial patner;
rganizing short training sessions on project preparation for the beneficiaries
and extension agencies;
- maisting target populations in designing their projects - asisting extension
agences in the preparation of financing requests;
-       organizing the program of support and traiing of extension agendes;
-     leadig evaluation activities of ex-ante projects;
-     establishing the budget, the activities Program and actvites reports;
-     putting-up and managing the Program docmentaion.
1.1.4    DIRECTOR FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF INC
ACTIVIIES AND OF SOCIAL PROJECTS
(He (she) will be responsible for:
ering projects proposals for his (her) sector;
-     complete a comprehenive evaluation of each project;
-     preparing conventions, contra  or agreemew   d hempon of
projects



- 52 -
ANNEXMA
Pop. 3 .Cf. 4~
-     establishing the Department budget, program and activities repot;
-      ensuring the folow-up of projets fiace in th  sector.
1.1.5 SPECIAIST D DAT  ROCESSING MANAGEM    SYSTMS
A specialist In data processing management system will terven at the end of the
preparaton period (PPF-flnanced), and will continue his work up to the fiaization of data
processing management sysm  and to train the administrative and financial offici I thIs
task.
A stay of about one month at the begining of the project wil be necesay,
completed by stays of similar duration every year during the project
1.2   TechnIal Asistance
121 LONG-TEM INT RNATIONAL CONSULTANT
RelonsiAiities
The consultant will assist the Director of ISTEEBU in the launching and
implementtIon of priority survey activities and in the praration, of the comprsi
survey. He will assist the Director of ISTEEBU in the dmati-   and o aon of
survey activities, and in formatting the protocoles of results analysis conerning the priority
survey. The consultant will be also responsible for training the ISTMBEBU hiher level staff,
and for the organizing seminars for the ISTEEBU staff who will participate in the survey
program.
A good experience in leading surveys in sociW sector, patclarly regading the data
procesing, stadstical, economics areas and responsibilities as a team leader.
Durion: 12 months for the first yv.
9 months for the second year, and
6 months for the third year.
1.2.2 PONCTUL INTNATIONAL
(a) Training and assistance to sampling activities a2 man/months)
0) Traiing and assistance to progamming actIvities (4 man/mont)
(c) Training and assistance to data analysis actIvities (5 manlmontfs).
13     ostltutional support
The project will call for short-tem technical asistsmce to support the trahig in data
analysis as a whole, the data analysis of surveys impl  by ISTEEBU to lead sector
studies on the social impact of economic reforms. The studies wi be carred out by local
consultiants from univesities, ministries and other Istition worldng in eonomic and socia



~jit                 i     ,    ,1lt
!   !pblti          I i i gl
t    |    I  f  At      .1|x  X
ii  IX             j t}i1fl j   i.I



-54 -ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 7
SU?NMARY PROJECT COSTS A1NI FINANCING
.    S        4#e'  
J' i§*,
*  ., 8, l.
r*  -  *   S
*  e   S  



-I
aNw
TWITEZI oERE
S=ry Accouts by Year
Totals Including Ccntinoncies                           Totals Includfng Contlngaicfes
.......................... ...............................................................................    ...................................................
93        94        95        96     Total            93        94        95        96     Total
1. INVESTINT COSTS
4. E9pdp5ent/vehicles                313671    262152    286954    311667   117444           1473      1170      1281      1391       5315
S. Civl I Iwks                       166400    134136    130929    75334    506799            781       599       S85       336      2301
C. TA, Trainfig   Studfes            361402    383114    33        423630   1S6000           1697      1710      1752      1891       7050
0. PPF                                3S200         0         0          0     85200          400         0         0         0       400
Total INVESTNENT COSTS               9674    779401    83    3                    4             1      3479      3617      3619     15066
it. REOJERENT COSTS
A.  operations & Naintenano.          30867    33065      35208     37265    136405           145       148       15?        166       616
i.tat PROJECT COSTS                  957541    824U6    345446    847896   3463348            495      3627      3774      3785      15682
................................... ..................................................................................
Vatlues Scaled by 1000.0  3/24/1993  14:59
FrI
t-



-I
Tabt 1.  _mgint Iqwtewtatfon UnIt
Rangot btWnentatfn UnIt
Deled Coat TAte
SW
T.t.tl Ioslut,ln Cantfnwines
Quantity                         m  Custs In USS                             US
unit     9% 9*    Ss    96 Total           93     94      95     96  Tota         93     94     ff     96 Tota
t. INU T     COStS
................
A. Vabicles
Ferwblortv. O4W4             0     0      1    0      1         0      0     30      0     30          0      0     36      0     36
NItorcele                    c      2     0     0     2         0      2      0       0      2         0      2      0      0      2
...... ........ ..... ...... ...... ....... ...... ........ ..... ...... ...... ........... ........ ........ ........
Sub-Toa                                                          0      2     30       0     32         0      2     3       0     35
B. Consutts Svices
N1-                                                            40     20     20      20    100        39    20      21     22    103
Audt                                                                            -  -  30  1  S  15  75  4    17    18    19       a
ISAtoeta                                                        70     35     35      35    175        73     37     39    41    1901
C. Eqatp
CeSuta/prInt/onAat.r         3      0     0     0     3        30      0      0      0      30        34             0      0     34 
fa schins                     1    0      0     0     1         2      0      0      0      2          2      0      0      0      2
Offtie Fumituse                     0     0     0     1         8      0      0       0      8         9      0      0      0      9
............ ........ ..... ........ .... ;;.... ......  ........ ......  .......  ......  ......... ......  ....... ;....
S-Total                                                         40      0      0       0     40        45      0      0      0     45
D. Tedmicat Asfstanc
USnlori taff                 a    60   60    60   240          78     7      78     78  312           84     86     9      96  35
StAff                        72    72    72 n  288             S8     S8     S      S8  230           42            6?     7     a26
......... .................. ... ..... .............. ....... ......  ........    ......  ........ ......  ......... ......
Sub- l                                                         1       36   136    136   542          146    149    159    14?   620
~~~~~~......   ......         . . ......  ........ ......  ........ ...... ........ ........ ................................ ...
toWt  tiw        csi                                                  246 ca3    201    17         789       23    189    24    205    84
it. IuaCUmmi aI
...............
A. Operation & Nafatwance
lent                          I     I     I     I    4         t5    1S    iS    1S    60             1S    1S    16       1?     62
Vehtcles Ibintmnce                  -                                -  -  15    15    1S    IS    60  iS    1S    16    1?       62
Off IceN  *ntw                                                  I   *  *  *  j  I  I  1      4         1      1      1      1      4
Coqputer Sytem ssfnt.        -     -     -     a                3      3      3      3      12         3      3      3      3     12
Fox N1tt  Pinterance                                            0 -           0                    0  1  0    0      0      0      1oGi
Office Suppties              a           -           -          9      9      9      9      36         9      9     10     10     37
Pubtications                 -     -           -                       I       1      1      5         I      I      I      I      5                       4
Trwtl                         t     t     t     t    4         20     20     20     20     80         20     20     21     22     83                        ° c:
Office spport                -     -     -     -     -         17     17    17       17    68         17     17    18    19       71
OtherPersomat                12    12    12    12    48        18     t8     18      18    72         18     18     19     20     75
..... ........ .... ....... .... ........    ...... ....... .. .o..... .... ...... ..... ....
Sub-Total                                                       49     99     9      9      398        97     9     106   I1I    413
... ....................... ...........  ........ .....  . ....... ..... ...... ...... ...... .... .........
Totat RECURREIT COSTS                                                   99     99    99      9     398        97     99    106    111    413
u  mzu-== _u  _C   =     ==   = C
Totat                                                              345    272    300    270   1187        360    288    339    320   1307



_AI
TWITZI_E
Table 2. Swis.l Action Prearm
Detalled Cost Table
Totals Including Contineces
mantity                           Cost in US                                   U
Unit    93 94-96 Tout           9       94      95      9f   Total          93      94      95     9f   Total
................................................................... ....................................................   ........................................
A. Las _TtOTS
Studi    Itt   I)          3     3  12            30      30      30      30      120         32      33      35      37     137
B. Leal Conul tnt (IEC)          1     1    4           2       2       2       2       8           2       2       2       2       9
C. qaprt to 60o
Secretariat                0     1    3            0      15      15      15      45          0       1s      16      1t      48
D. Tral"ing
Local Training             2     2     8          13      13      13      13    S            12      13      13      14      53
Locl COultant              I     t    4           14      14      14      14      58          14      14      1S      16      60
Stud Trips                 3     312              18      18      18      18      74          19      19      20      21      79
u-Totad                                            46       6      46             18           65      46      49      S      192
F.  tfrjtgtj.e                  -     -               800     600     550     300    2250         781     599    5a       336   2301
f. Proejitie
EquiP  -e-t-                                     780     792     804    840    3216          8$9     884     948    1039   3719
TA Trng. & Studies           -         -         520     528     536     560    2144        559      580     627    691    2455
SubTotal                                         1300    1320    1340    1400    5360        1407    146     1S74    1729    6175
S. Social Sub-projects
EqlpMent                  -     -      -         200     210     220     250     880        219      237     261     310    1027
TA, Trn. &Studies                      -         238     267     27      307    1090         255     294     324     379    1252
S-Total                                           438     47      49      557    1970        475      531     585     689    2279
N. Studfes/Suprvisfon          -                      148     148     154     161     611         159     162     180     198    700
Total IUVESTNEUT COSTS                                  2763    2638    2634    2511   10546        2902    2852   3027   3061  11862
_                          _u               ........uuu    u.. =m  -   muss.   -   _ .
Totl                                                 2763    2638   2654    2511   1056          2902   2852    3027   3061   11842
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values saled by 1000.0 3/24/1993  14:52



BURU"D
Now
TVITEZIU ERE
Table 3. Poverty Nonitortnq
Deta led Cost Table
SW
Totals Including Contfngeonfes
Cuantity                      aoe Costs In US,                             us$
Unft    93          95   f 9Tots93 t4    95                       Total         93    94    95    9  TTotal
I. .~ _
................
A. Tratning SURV
Field Training             *    -                            10    i5       3      0    28         IC    1S      3      0    27
Icurkdp treining           *      *                -         10      0     10    10    30          10     0     11    11    32
Stud Tour                   2     2    2      2    8         1S    15    1s    15    60            IS    1S    16    17    62
Inhous Training             9    12   12   12  4S            45    60    60    60   225           44    60    64    67   235
Sub-total                                                     80    90    88    8    342            78    90    93    95    356
B. Sqtapment SURm
Niero CoAuter               6    0    0    3    9            24      0      0     12    36         24     0      0     14    38
Printer                    10    0      0    0    10         13      0      0      0     13        13     0      0      0     13
ondileurs                   8    0    0    0    a            10      0      0      0     to       to      0      0      0     10
AIr Conditioning               -       *    -    -            S      5      5      5    20          6     6      6      6     24
Notorcycle                 1O    0    2    0    12           40      0      8      0    48         45     0     10      0    54
Software                    I    0    0       B     1        20      0      0      0    20         22     0      0      0    22
Photoeoper                  1    0    0       0     1         7      0      0      0      7         7     0      0      0      7                           c
Vehicles                    6     0    0      0    6        180      0      0      0    180       202     0      0      0   202
=nnesygmpic m¶t            *    *    *            *           5     10      0      0     iS        6      12     0      0     17
Antr.  Eq   ent             *          -    *                 S      3      0      0      8        6      3      0      0      a
Offtoe furniture                 -     -    -    *                          5      3     18        6      6      6      3    21
~~~~......  ........ ......       ........ ......  ........ ......  ............ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........
Seb-Total                                                    313    23     18    19   373         346    26    22    23   416
C. Publiatiaon StYEY
Docusnts Printing             -    -         -    -           S      5      S      0     1S        S      5      6      0     17
hports Printing                  -    -    -    -             3      1      3      5     12        3      1      4      6     14
Menu Printfng                    -    -    -    -             5      3      1      1      9        6      3      1      1    11
Sub-Total                                                     13      8      9      6    36         14    10    It       7    42
D. TA (studies)
Lccal Cnesulnt              3     6    3    6    18          11    22    11    22    65            12    24    13    27    75
Internstlal Consultant    3       2     1    2    8          4S    30    1S    30  120            50    35    I8    37  141
Sub-Total                                                     56 52    26    52   185              62    59    31    64    215
E. TA (Survey)
Consultant-ST              12    9    6    3   30           180   135    90    4S   450          202   IS?   108    56  52 2
Consuttant (Locat)          3    3    2    2    10            6      6      4      4    20         6      7      S      5    23
Ste Personnel              -    -    -             -          5      S      S      S    20         S      S      6      6    23
Enquateurs                  -    -    -    -       -         10    10    10    10    40            11    12    12    12    47
Sib-Total                                                    201   156   109    64   530          225   180   131    80   615 S
F. Training (Studtes)
S"ena                        1    1    1    1    4           10    10    10    10    40            11    S1    12    12    46
Trmit                       2    2      2    2    8          1S    1S    15    15    60            17    17    18    19    71
Traininr                    -    -    -    -                 30    30    30    30    120          34    35    36    37    142
Smb-Total                                                     55    S5    55    55   220           61    63    66    68   258
G. Pabticatfon (Studies)
IbeportPrinting                        -           -          0      5      1      S     11        0      S      1      6     13



National Seminars                  0      2      1      2       5           0       5        3       5      13           0        5       3        6      15
... . ..... ..... ........... ...... .........  ........... .. .......  ......... ......  ......... ...... ........ .
Sub-Totsl                                                                    0      10        4      10      23            0      11       4       12      27
... .. .. ..... ........... ...... ......    ...... .......... ........ ...... ............ ........ ........
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                             718    394    308    291   1710               786    438    35?    350    1931
11. RECURRENT COSTS
...............
A. Operating Costs SURVEY
Naint. of Vehicles                -      -      -      -       -          20       20      20       20      80          20       20      21      22       83
Naint. of H.Computers                    -      -      -       -            2       2        2       2       8           2        2       2        2       8
Naint. of Photocopler                                                       I -  -  -  -  I  I       1       4           1        1       1        1       4
Fees for Cartogrphy                                                            -  -  -      1        1       3           1       0        1       1        3
Nissions                          -      -      -      -       -          20       20      20       20      80          20      20       21      22       83
Other operating Costs                 -     -          -       -                    5        5       s      20           5        s       S       6       21
..... ii.... ...... ..... i;.... ......  ........ ...... ...... ........ ...... ..... _..... ............
Sub-Total                                                                  49       48      48       49     195          48       48      52      55      203
...... ....            .     .. ......   ...... ........ ...... ........ ...... ... ........ ........ ........ ........
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                               49       48      4       49      195          48      48       52      55     203
mm mm                      mm    =n=   mW m#5 mm  =                             m
Total                                                                          767      442    356    340   1905             834    487    408    405   2134
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  3/24/1993  14:52
n
~0 
tl
-I



NUDMI
BURSAP
TWITEZIRBERE
Table 4. PPF
Detailed Cost Table
'US
Totals Including Contingencies
Quantity            Base Costs fn IIN                         MUS'
93-96 Total            93    94-96    Total              93      94-9S      Total
............   ...................... ................   ........................................... ...............
t. INVESTENT COSTS
................
Long-term Cornultant            -            70000         0    70000          70000           0     70000
Short-term Consultant        -     -         70000         0    70000          70000           0     70000
Chef de cellule             -      -         30000         0    30000          30000           0     30000
....... ............          ............ ............ ............  ......  ............. .........
Sub-Total                                    170000          0 I7000           170000           0    1700
B. Vehicles                       .      .        3000           0    30000          30000          0      30000
C. Equipment
PC                          -      -         40000         0    40000          40000           0     40000
Photocopier                 -                 10000       0    10000          10000           0     10000
....... .......  .... .       ........... ...............  ... . ......  .........  ............. .........
Sub-Total                                     50000         0    50000          50000           0     50000
0. Studies
Technical Assistance        -      -        100000         0   100000         100000           0    100000
Social Action Prooram       -      -         50000         0    50000          50000           0     50000                                                                  0
,,,,..........,., , ........... .... ...., .........  ............. .. .,,.,...... 
Sub-Total                                    150000         0   1S0000         150000           0    150i 0
........    ..        .    ....       . ... . .. ............ .................. ...........................
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                               4       00000  0   400000         400000           0    400000
mm=zt9=SSSUZ==              wMI9===  m===
Total                                            400000          0   400000         40000           0    400000
3124/1993  14:52
o4N
O S



- 61 -
ANNEXV
Page 1 of 1
SUPERVISIriN PLAN
Approximate Date                   Activity                                             Staff
03/                    Pnrect Launeh & Pect Sevisio                                     U,IS, PA,
SFNS,
06/93                  Supvision Mission                                               E,IS, CS
10/93                  Supision Mission                                                E,IS, S
02194                  Supvson Misdon (Ful Annual Revi)                                E,IS,
FPS,NSLS,
I _ _ __ _ .__ __ _      _  ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   S 
06194                  Spev          Mission                                           E
10194                  Supervision Mision                                              E,IS,
019S                    hUvision Mis    (gt Anmal Rview)                               E,IS,S
_  _  _  _ _  _  _ _    _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _    CS
069                    Joint ESk Oovenment Mid-Term Reviow                             E,IS,
FA,FP,
NS,LS,
11/9S                  Supervision Mission                                             E,SFS
03/96                  Supervision Mission (Lig  Annual Review)                        B,1s, CS,s
07/96                  Supevidon Mission                                              E1S,
PWS
11/96                  Suervisioa Miion                                                e
03/97                  Superion Mission (l Aual Reiw)                                  B,IS,
PPS,S
07/97                  Supervision Mision                                              E,
11/97                  Supervision Mission                                             E,SPS,
03_                     Fna Superision Misdon                                          B,IS,S
PWS,PA
NUOS
e - Economdst (Task Manapi), IS - Implenation Speciis, PA - Fin_l Analyst, SFS- Soeil Fund
Speciaist. FPS 8 Family Plarmng Specials, NS - Nubition Specalist, CS - Credit Speciast, PWS - Pubio
Wark SpecialiaOOS = NOO speaids, S -Stati        Ln, U     LtrY Speiaist
Expected staff inpus rprs     5 sw brkn dowm as follows: 20 in 1993, 15 in 1994,20 in 1995, 12 in 1996, 10 i
1997, and 8 in 1"9.
This does not include TM's dek-wo    In addition, a stong suppo wl be needed fim the R nt Mission to
montor the Social PF     co_pone.



ANNEX VI
- 62 -                                        Page 1 of 1
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
IDA FYWGUARTER END  DISURS_EENT DURACCWIJNLATED  X
EUARTERS       DISBURSEMENTS
FY94
Septaeber 30 1993              0.4           0.4        4X    2.2
December 31, 1993               0.3          0.7        3X
March 31, 1994                 0.3             1        32
Jine 30, 1994                  0.4           1.4       42
FY95
September 30 1994              0.4           1.8       42
Deceaher 31, 1994               0.4          2.2       4X
March 31, 1995                 0.6           2.8        6X    2.6
Jun 30, 1995                   0.6           3.4       6%
FY96
September 30 1995              0.7           4.1       7X
December 31, 1995              0.7           4.8        7X
March 31. 1996                 0.7           5.5        72    3.2
Junw 30, 1996                  0.7           6.2       7X
FY97
September 30 1996                1           7.2       10X
Deeember 31, 1996              0.8             8        8X
March 31, 1997                 0.8           8.8        82    2.4
June 30, 1997                  0.8           9.6       8X
FY98
September 30 1997              0.5          10.1        SX
Deceaber 31, 1997              0.3          10.4       32
10.4



- 63 -
AX VII
Page 1 of 1
SELECI ED DOCUMENTS IN THIE PROJECr [L
1.    Operations Manual and annexes (AF3PH division files).
2.    Intemal regulations of the Implementation Unit. (AF3PH division files).
3.    Anne-Marie Goetz: Study on the community credit fostering the access of women and
youth in Burundi. September 1992, Bujumbura.
4.    Rose Nintun: Social activities and legal status of women. July 1992, Bujumbura.
5.    Mona Fikry, Mark Ward: Economic integration of women in the developing proc ss
of Bunmdi, USAID, February 1992, Bujumbura.
6. Analysis of women's and children's condition in Buruindi, UNICEF, February 1992,
Bujumbura.
7.    Lydia Montalti, Claude Piganiol: Components for the establishment of a national
policy on employment, June 1992, Bujumbura. .
8.    Sectorial policy project, Ministry of Handicraf, Education, Trade and Youth,
February 1992, Bujumbura.
9.    Decree of April 18, 1992, concerning the creation of Associations without lucrative
objectives.



MAP SECTION



t=RD 24302
WIMM                         J                         $, tBURUNDI
URUNDI                             SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
TAN4ZANIA R4
-rx-
\9 + ~~~RWANDA t
z   ct8TK     (/iBV                                     MNA         i        TANZANIA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&~~~~~~~~~~~~4OWJBER 1992r
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~is phis o,,  puoWed
I  \   >   \  4/ Bl TUT -i            RUAN                     implphwiffe  P
\  z M   t$   \<  >   \ ) V      f              *   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Intemetifonal Airport
J | yC F ii ~~~~~~~~~~~*   Nafonal Capitll
_    /    /     *,, P  w,,,^ t-- Province Boundaries
A~~~~~~~~~~~~GIWUAu of dThw=                      -Intreaorl Boundr
p~~~~~~~~~~~~o )                     bObd Sh
/ as@ga=e er = O~~ 10                    20  30   4,0
l   L   )   I ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KO O
WO~ ~ ~                       N wm



