Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2494 BU
Development Credit Agreement
(Social Action Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 10, 1993
CREDIT NUMBER 2494 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has entered into an agreement (the Convention), dated April 
20, 1993, with the Association Sans But Lucratif "Twitezimbere" (the Agency), 
authorized by ordonnance ministerielle No. 205.01/082/93, dated February 25, 1993, for 
the execution of the Project by the Agency;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from other donors in order to obtain 
grants in an  aggregate amount necessary to assist in financing the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the respective agreements to be entered into between 
the Borrower and other donors; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Operations Manual" means the manual of procedures that is attached to 
the Convention, forms an integral part there-of, and sets out the procedures governing 
the implementation of the Project, including the identification, evaluation, 
selection, implementation,
and monitoring of sub-projects;
(b)
"Subproject" means the activities referred to in Part A.1 of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and financed by the Agency according to the terms and procedures set 
in this Agreement and the Operations Manual.
(c)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated 
December 31, 1991, and
February 3, 1992, between the Borrower and the Association;
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(e)
"Statutes" means the statutes of the Agency, dated February 19, 1993.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seven
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower, on behalf of the Agency, shall, for the purposes of the 
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Bank of the 
Republic of Burundi on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
Page  3
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1
commencing October 1, 2003, and ending April 1, 2033. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on April 1, 2013, shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Page  4
Section 2.09. The Agency is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall cause the 
Agency to carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with the Convention and the 
Operations Manual attached thereto, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable the Agency to carry out the Project, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out 
of the Project by the Agency.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, in pursuance of the Convention, transfer the 
proceeds of the Credit on a non-reimbursable basis to the Agency for the execution of 
the Agency's obligations thereunder.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, through the Convention:
(a)
Cause the Agency to take all measures necessary to ensure that the 
Project is carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices.
(b)
Ensure that the Agency is at all times during the implementation of the 
Project staffed by competent staff with terms of references, experience and 
qualifications acceptable to the Association and the Borrower, including a project 
director, a manager for income generating and social activities, a promotion officer 
and an administrative and financial officer.
(c)
Cause the Agency to promptly inform the Borrower of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the implementation of the Project (including 
any sub-project) and the
accomplishment of its purposes.
(d)
Cause the Agency to carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06. 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions, (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively).
(e)
Ensure that all sub-projects selected for financing under Part A.1 of the 
Project will be sub-projects that are to be implemented in the provinces of Ngozi, 
Muyinga and Muramvya. The Borrower shall cause the Agency to submit for approval to 
the Association the selection and implementation of sub-projects located in provinces 
other than Ngozi, Muyinga and Muramvya until the mid-term review referred to in 
Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement. After the mid-term review, this procedure of 
approval shall no longer apply.
(f)
Cause the Agency to submit to the Association, for an evaluation of its 
selection process of sub-projects, the first five sub-project requests under each of 
the four respective components of Part A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(g)
Ensure that any amendment to the Convention (including the Operations 
Manual) is subject to the Association's prior approval.
(h)
Cause the Agency to submit short quarterly reports on the implementation 
Page  5
of the Project in a format acceptable to the Association and will promptly submit them 
to the Association.
(i)
Cause the Agency to submit more detailed annual reports on the 
implementation of the Project in a format accept-able to the Association and will 
promptly submit them to the Association. The annual reports will cover financial, 
procurement and general sub-project performance as well as the result of sub-project 
monitoring.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall carry out a mid-term 
review of the  Project in the period between 20 and 30 months after the Effective 
Date. The terms of reference of this review shall be acceptable to the Association and 
the Borrower shall prepare the inputs required for this review. During the review an 
assessment will be made of: (i) progress made in implementing overall Project 
objectives; (ii) the continued validity of the design assumptions in the light of 
implementation experience and the evolving context within which the Project is being 
implemented; (iii) the opportunity to reduce the periodicity of the audit reports 
referred to in Section 4.01 from a semi-annual basis to an annual basis in light of 
the audits previously  conducted in application of Sections 4.01 and 4.02; (iv) the 
desirability of expanding the area
of implementation of the sub-projects financed under Part A.1 of the Project to 
provinces other than Ngozi, Muyinga and Muramvya or to expand it to the entirety of 
the Borrower's territory; and (v) progress made in implementing the poverty and living 
conditions monitoring component and the desirability of launching an integrated 
survey. In addition, as part of the review, the Borrower shall also prepare a plan of 
action, satisfactory to the Association, to improve the Project implementation and 
deal with identified deficiencies.
(b)
Promptly after the review, the Borrower shall take or shall cause to be 
taken all necessary action required for the implementation of the aforementioned plan 
of action and take or
cause to be taken all necessary action to implement the recommendations of the 
mid-term review.
Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation on the provisions of Section 3.01, the 
Borrower shall: (i) provide in its budget amounts sufficient to cover its counterpart 
contributions to the costs of
the Project; (ii) open and maintain, on behalf of the Agency, until the completion of 
the Project, an account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; (iii) deposit 
into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to $100,000 (the Initial 
Deposit); (iv) there-after at annual intervals following the deposit of the Initial 
Deposit, deposit in the Project Account an amount equivalent to the Initial Deposit or 
any other amount required for further implementation of the Project as agreed between 
the Borrower and the Association; and (v) ensure that the amounts deposited in the 
Project Account will be used exclusively for the Borrower's counterpart expenditures 
under the Project and are included in the Borrower's public expenditure program.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, pursuant to the terms of the Convention, 
cause the Agency to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of the Agency.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Agency to:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each semiannual period audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
submit to it for subsequent transmittal to the Association as soon 
as 
available, but in any case not later than three months after 
Page  6
the end of the 
semiannual period referred to: (A) certified copies 
of its financial 
statements for such period as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to it for subsequent transmittal to the Association such 
other 
information concerning such records, accounts, financial 
statements and the 
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall, 
pursuant to the terms of the
Convention, cause the Agency to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
acccounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the semiannual period in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special 
Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in each of the 
audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such audit 
period, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without prejudice to Section 4.01 above, the Borrower shall, 
during the first 12 months following the Effective Date, cause the Agency to have its 
records and accounts referred to in Section 4.01 above audited every four months. Any 
additional audits to be carried out in pursuance of this provision shall be carried 
out, and reports thereof shall be submitted, in accordance with the same standards as 
set out in Section 4.01 above, with the exception that the additional audit reports 
will have to be submitted not later than two months after the end of the four-month 
period referred to.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Borrower or the Agency shall have failed to perform any of their 
respective obligations under the Convention.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Agency will be able to perform its obligations under the Convention.
(c)
The Convention shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived without the prior approval of the Association.
(d)
The statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Agency to perform 
any of its obligations under the Convention.
(e)
The Borrower or any other entity having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
Page  7
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Agency or for the suspension of 
its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and 
shall continue for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by 
the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Agency has selected 25 sub-projects for financing and the Association 
has approved the selection of at least ten of those sub-projects;
(b)
the Project Account has been opened and the Initial Deposit in an amount 
equivalent to $100,000 has been deposited therein by the Borrower; and
(c)
a management information system acceptable to the Association has been 
installed in the Agency and is operational.
Section 6.02 The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Convention has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and the Agency and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
the Agency in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Borrower's minister in charge of finance is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
B.P. 1830
Bujumbura
Burundi
Telex:
9775135 BDI
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Page  8
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Julien Kavakure
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Part A of the Project
(1)   Civil Works            1,150,000          75%
(2)   Equipment,             1,510,000          100% of foreign
      materials,                                expenditures and
      vehicles                                  50% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)   Consultants'           1,620,000          50%
      services,
      studies,
      training and
      services
      to agencies
Part B of the Project
(4)   Equipment,               290,000          100% of foreign
      vehicles and                              expenditures and
      material                                  50% of local
                                                expenditures
(5)   Consultants'           1,080,000          100%
      services,
Page  9
      studies and
      training
(6)   Operating                140,000          95%
      expenditures
Part C of the Project
(7)   Equipment,                70,000          100%
      vehicles and
      material
(8)   Consultants'             320,000          100% of foreign
      services,                                 expenditures and
      training and                              50% of local
      studies                                   expenditures
(9)   Operating                290,000          95%
      Expenditures
(10)  Refunding of             290,000          Amounts due
      Project                                   pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement
(11)  Unallocated              740,000
                             _________
      TOTAL                  7,500,000
                             =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "operating expenditure" means incremental recurrent expenditure 
incurred for Project implementation, such as local support staff salary, office rental 
and supplies, fuel, and
maintenance; and
(d)
the term "services to agencies" means expenditures incurred by the Agency 
in support of entities, such as non-governmental organizations, in charge of the 
identification, execution and
supervision of the sub-projects and in support of the coordination and development of 
non-governmental organizations.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower:
(i)
in encouraging the population to engage in small-scale income 
generating activities;
 
(ii)
in improving the living conditions of the population through the 
generation of 
employment and the improvement of the social services 
and infrastructure;
Page  10
(iii)
in fostering the participation of local governments such as 
municipalities, 
community groups, and non-governmental agencies in 
development-related activities; 
and
 
(iv)
in strengthening the Borrower's capacity to measure and monitor 
trends in the 
population's living conditions.
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
The Social Action Program
 
1.
The support by the Agency to sub-projects furthering:
 
(i)
the creation and promotion of income-generating activities;
 
(ii)
the enhancement of small-scale economic infrastructure;
 
(iii)
the rehabilitation and construction of basic social 
infrastructure; and
(iv)
the development of social activities with priority in the areas of 
family 
planning, literacy programs and nutritional 
recuperation.
2.
Support to development of national non-governmental organizations and assistance 
to the coordination of non-governmental organizations.
Part B:
Monitoring of Poverty and Living Conditions
 
1.
Establishment of a survey system for the monitoring of trends in the 
population's living conditions.
2.
The carrying out of surveys and studies in the social and economic sectors.
 
3.
The support to the Borrower's capacity to carry out surveys and studies in the 
social and economic sectors.
Part C:
Project Management
 
The coordinating and monitoring of the Project through a project management 
unit, including the acquisition of vehicles, equipment and material.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by 30 June 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 
of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
Page  11
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Burundi may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less but 
more than $30,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $800,000, may 
be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association and the provisions of the 
Operations Manual.
2.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,400,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible 
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association and 
the provisions of the
Operations Manual.
3.
Contracts for works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount of $1,400,000 may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association and the provisions of the Operations 
Manual; provided that, should such procedures fail to attract a qualified contractor 
to execute such works, the contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$30,000 or more per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association and the 
provisions of the
Operations Manual.
4.
Contracts for works estimated to cost less than $30,000 per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $400,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association and the 
provisions of the Operations Manual; provided that, should such procedures fail to 
attract a qualified contractor to execute such works, the contracts for works 
estimated to cost less than $30,000 per contract may be procured on the basis of 
direct contracting according to procedures acceptable to the Association and the 
provisions of the Operations Manual.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
Page  12
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of
expenditure.
(d)
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operations Manual. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 and in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operations Manual.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (9) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $700,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited inTO the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
Page  13
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
