Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21151 TUN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN
(SECOND PHASE)
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR41 MILLION
(US$37.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR THE
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
February 21, 2001
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region



(Exchange Rate Effective as of February 2t}01)
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (DT)
DT I = US$0.074
US$1 = 1.35 DT
FISCAL YEAR
January I toDecember31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANPE                   Agence Nationale pour la Protection de l'Environnement
APL                    Adaptable Program Loan
BOT            =       Build-Operate-Transfer
CAREPP                 Commission d'Assainissement et de Restructuration
des Entreprises a Participation Publique
CAS            =       Country Assistance Strategy
CCL            =       Commission de Contr6le des Licenciements
CGF                    Contr6le G6neral des Finances
CNPRS          =       Caisse Nationale de Retraite et de Pr6voyance Sociale
CNSS           =       Caisse Nationale de S6cunt6 Sociale
CP                     Contrat-Programme (Performance Contract)
CR             =       Conseil de Region
CRB            =       Computer-Assisted Radio Block
CTC            =       Centralized Traffic Control system
DESAF          =       Direction des Etudes Sectorielles et de l'Analyse Financiere
DGPE           =       Direction G6ndrale de la Planification et des Etudes
EA             =       Environmental Assessment
EIA            =       Environmental Impact Analysis
FCAL           =       Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan
EMP                    Environmental Management Plan
ERR            =       Economic Rate of Return
FIAP           =       Fonds d'Insertion et d'Adaptation Professionnelle
FMPM           =       Financial Management Procedures Manual
FMS            =       Financial Management Systems
FREP           =       Fonds de Restructuration des Entrepfises Publiques
rRR            =       Financial Rate of Return
FS             =       Financial Statements
GDP            =       Gross Domestic Product
GOT            =       Govemment of Tunisia
IBRD           =       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR            =       Implementation Completion Report
ICB            =       Intemational Competitive Bidding
LI             =       Labor Inspection
LRT            =       Light Rail Transit
MOT            =       Ministry of Transport
NCB            =       National Competitive Bidding
NGO            =       Non Governmental Organization
NPV            =       Net Present Value
OMMP           =       Office de la Marine Marchande et des Ports
PC             =       Performance Contract
PCD            =       Project Concept Document
PERL           =       Public Enterprise Reform Loan
PIP            =       Project Implementation Plan
PMRs           =       Project Management Reports
PMU            =       Project Management Ulnit
PSOs           =       Public Service Obligations
FMT            =       Public Transport Enterprises
SA             =       Special Account
SBD            =       Standard Bidding Documents
SMLT           =       Soci6t6 du M6tro L6ger de Tunis
SNCFT          =       Soci6t6 Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens
SNT            =       Socict6 Nationale de Transport
SNTRI          =       Socictt Nationale des Transports Intergouvemorats
SOE            =       Statement of Expenditures
SORETRAS    =          Soci6t6 R6gionale de Transport du Gouvemorat de Sfax
SRTG           =       Socidt6 Rdgionale de Transports de Gouvemorat
STAM                   Soci6te Tunisienne d'Acconap,e et de Man
STS            =       Soci6t6 des Transports du Sabel
TA                     Technical Assistance
TOR                    Terms of Reference
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country ManagerfDirector:    Christian Delvoie
Sector ManagertDirector:    George Tharakan
Task Team LeaderiTask Manager:    Michel Loir



TUNISIA
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                 Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                               3
2. Project development objective                                                     3
3. Key performance indicators                                                        4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                 11
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               16
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    19
3. Benefits and target population                                                   20
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    21
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        23
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       24
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                         24
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 25
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      26
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         27
2. Financial                                                                        29
3. Technical                                                                        32
4. Institutional                                                                    32
5. Environmental                                                                    33
6. Social                                                                           35
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               36
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   37
2. Critical risks                                                                   37
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   39



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             39
2. Other                                                                               39
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           41
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          41
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           43
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     48
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          57
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            n/a
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary     61
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        69
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      83
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    84
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   85
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             87
MAP(S)



TUNISIA
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSIF
Date: February 21, 2001                            Team Leader: Michel A. Loir
Country Manager/Director: Christian Delvoie        Sector Manager/Director: George Tharakan
Project ID: P064082                                Sector(s): TT - Transportation Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL             Indicative Financing Plan        Implementation Period           Borrower
________   ______________                                 (Bank FY)          __                 _
IBRD             Others      Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m       US$ m         Date        Date
APL 1        50.00    62.3    30.20       80.20       06/01/98   12/31/2002
Loan!
Credit I_ _ __ _ _
APL 2        37.60    66.0    19.40       57.00     07/31/2001   06/30/2006
Loan/
C red it   _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Total       87.60   __    49.60          137.20
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan     [1 ] Credit   [] Grant    1 Guarantee       [] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 37.6 (equivalent to Euro 41 million)
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                                 Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.85%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local          Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        17.40           2.00          19.40
IBRD                                                            10.00          27.60         37.60
Total:                                                         27.40           29.60          57.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
Address: 13 rue 8006, Cite Montplaisir, 1004 Tunis
Contact Person: Salem Miladi
Tel: 216-1-795-289                 Fax: 216-1-792-219                Email: miladiKgemail.ati.tn



Other Agency(ies):
Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens
Address: Gare Centrale de Tunis. Place Barcelone. 1001 TUNIS
Contact Person: Moharned Chedli Guisani
Tel: 216-1-335 181              Fax: 216-1-348-540                Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY         2002   1  2003        2004      i2005       2006
Annual    6.90       12.10      10.20       6.40       2.00
Cumulative    6.90       19.00      29.20      35.60     37.60
Project implementation period: From June 1, 2001 to December 31, 2005
Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
OCS APL PAD Fam P   AD. 2000
-2 -



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The objectives of the program are to: (a) upgrade the economic efficiency and quality of transport
services by promoting reforms designed to streamline sector management and increase competition in and
for the market, while developing safeguards against negative impacts that unchecked transport growth
would cause the environment; and (b) reduce the sector's financial burden on the Government's budget by
paving the way for greater private sector investment and participation in the delivery of transport services,
boosting the performance of remaining public enterprises through cost cutting and management capacity
building measures, and better targeting of subsidies to satisfy unmet social and economic needs.
The Transport Sector Investment Project consists of two phases. Under Phase ], the Government
embarked on an ambitious program of transport sector reforms that included reorganizing the ports and
railway sectors, rehabilitating and modernizing port and rail infrastructure, and building capacity to
manage the sector. Phase 11 will focus on: (a) implementing measures to reform and improve the urban
transport sector along guidelines set forth by the Government; and (b) modernizing rail services to support
the phosphate industry. The latter component, requested by the Borrower and accepted by the Bank for
reasons stated in Section B3, is an addition to the original project scope.
Investments supported by Bank loans in both phases are less than 10 percent of total transport
sector investments included in the Government's Ninth Plan (1997-2001). The limited amount of Bank
involvement, coupled with the level of severance payments included in program lending (31 percent of
combined loans) underscores the basic objectives of this operation, namely institution building and seeking
appropriate reforms for the sector. Program phasing was dictated by differences in the speed at which
reforms would mature.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's development objectives are to create an institutional framework that will support
sustainable growth of public transport in major cities, and enhance the profitability of railway operations in
the phosphate sector.
Under the urban transport component, an organization will be established to begin addressing the
delivery of public transport services in a cost efficient manner. Within the national policy framework, the
organization will seek to: (a) transfer planning, management and regulatory functions to local governments
to achieve better management of the mobility needs of urban dwellers, improve integration of transport and
urban development, and increase coordination of public transport services; (b) set-up a funding system that
will fully recover those expenditures incurred in carrying out public service obligations, while at the same
time, giving service providers incentives to improve performance; and (c) improve the (quality of services
and minimize operating costs by increasing private sector involvement in the provision of specialized bus
services. The institutional development activities are designed to build transport management capabilities
at the local level so as to better adapt services to the needs of the users, especially the poor.
Under the railway component, the project will eliminate excess costs incurred by ,Socit6 Nationale
des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens (SNCFT) in transporting phosphate rock and derivates, and remove
bottlenecks to phosphate mining and traffic increases . The phosphate industry, with Government backing,
successfully opposed tariff increases proposed by SNCFT by arguing that the deficit in SNCFT's current
costs results from operational inefficiencies, and a need for faster execution of SNCFT's investment
program (as defined by a Bank-financed study), and not from low tariffs. The investment program
- 3 -



proposed in the Bank study offers the best way to meet the program objective of making the rail business
profitable, and reducing the overall level of subsidies to the transport sector.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress will be monitored using the following indicators:
Urban transport objective (a): These three indicators relate to Tunis where urban transport issues are most
acute.
*   Public transport share of total motorized trips:
50% in 2000
50% in 2005
*   Share of bus-rail transfers in combined traffic:
<5% in 2000
>10% in 2005
*   Occupancy rate of buses at peak/hour:
>10 riders/sqm in 2000
<8 riders/sqm in 2005
Urban transport objective (b):
* Subsidies in percent of total operating costs for Societe Nationale de Transport (SNT), assuming
creation of local sources of financing:
>35% in 2000 (including the deficit)
<30% in 2005
* Subsidies in percent of total operating costs for Societe Regionale de Transports de Gouvernorat
(SRTG) combined (assuming creation of local sources of financing):
40% in 2000
<30% in 2005
(included in the subsidies is compensation for public service obligations)
Urban transport objective (c):
*   share of bus-km subcontracted by the bus public operator in the greater Tunis area:
>3% in 2003
>5% in 2005
*   share of bus-km subcontracted by the SRTG's:
> 5% in 2003
>10% in 2005
Phosphate rail transport (d):
*   rock phosphate traffic: 10 million tons (MT) in 2005 (base value: 8 MT)
*   fertilizer and sulphur traffic: 1.3 MT in 2005 (base value: 1 MT)
*   phosphate transport cost: minus 25% (base value: Tunisian Dinar 0,024 per ton)
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20161-TUN         Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/27/2000
Program and project objectives support the CAS for Tunisia in that they seek to streamline public
sector management, promote privatization activities, upgrade trade related services, reduce the budget
deficit, and improve environmental management. Whereas Phase I of the Adaptable Program Loan (APL)
encompasses all four dimensions, Phase II is more narrowly focused on improving public sector
-4 -



management by utilizing tight budget resources more effectively than is currently the case, addressing labor
redundancies, and providing enhanced public transport services by identifying means to effectively curb
growth in the use of private cars and reduce traffic congestion and associated pollution. Phase II also
focuses on rail services by instituting measures to remove transport bottlenecks and increase the production
and exportation of phosphate, which will bolster long-term development prospects, and ties in with key
CAS macroeconomic and trade objectives. Finally, because urban transport and railways receive about 90
percent of all Government subsidies provided to the transport sector, lowering transport costs in these two
subsectors will significantly reduce the level of subsidies needed, and strengthen the prospects for future
economic growth in Tunisia.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Tunisia - Transport Sector Adaptable Program Loan, approved in June 1998, is intended to
address the key issues in the Tunisian transport sector. In general terms, these issues maybe characterized
as: inadequate investment in the transport sector; excessive involvement of the public sector in service
delivery; lack of competition in key market segments (namely ports, interurban and urban passenger
transport); insufficient coordination among transport modes; unsystematic integration of multiple policy
goals in transport planning; centralized decision making and a deficit of capability at the local level in the
area of urban transport; and pricing of services distorting competition and compromising economic
efficiency (e.g., the railways) while holding cash generation below that needed to modernize infrastructure
and equipment.
Government strategy in the transport sector largely corresponds with the scope of activities
envisaged under the APL, which supports a transport reforrn and investment program starting with the
Ninth Development Plan of Tunisia (1997-2001) and extending to 2005. Designed as an Adaptable
Program Loan, it comprises two phases:
(a) Phase I, which was initiated in 1998, focused on ports and railways. It supports sector reforms
to: (i) promote private sector participation in ports by setting up a new cargo handling organization
and fostering private investment in port facilities; (ii) facilitate trade and liberalize access to
transport activities by foreign investors to foster technology transfer and bring in capital; (iii)
commercialize the railway Societe Nationale des Chem ins de Fer Tunis iens (SNC'FT) and organize
it by lines of business to enhance its marketing of services and financial sustainability; and (iv)
reduce transport-induced pollution by promoting use of cleaner fuels.
(b) Phase II, which is this project, is to: (i) reform urban transport which has been plagued by
operational inefficiencies, largely related to flawed funding mechanisms that caused public service
providers to struggle financially, and forced recurrent and costly financial restructurings; and (ii)
modernize rail services to support the phosphate industry. The latter was not anticipated in the
original APL, and the reasons for its introduction in this phase are explained in Section 3 below.
By design, transitioning from Phase I to Phase II of the APL required the achieveme:nt of a number of
milestones addressing key issues in the sector. These interim objectives are indicative of the Government's
medium-term strategy, and are listed below:
(a) Transport Sector: (i) transport investments to be increased to about 2.8 percent of GDP; (ii) private
sector share in sector investment over 30 percent; (iii) sector subsidies below 0.5 percent of GDP; and
(iv) share of public transport in total transport service delivery in Tunis of about 55 percent.
- 5-



(b) Ports and Railways: (i) new port and railways regulations and legislation in place; (ii) restructuring
of Societe Tunisienne d'Acconage et de Manutention (STAM) and Compagnie Tunisienne de
Navigation (CTN) completed; and (iii) budget support for SNCFT less than 60 percent of revenues.
(c) Urban Transport: (i) financial restructuring of public bus companies completed; (ii) increased
managerial autonomy granted to public bus companies, including the right to contract out lines or
services, and establishment of a local management institution; and (iii) implementation of a system
ensuring full compensation of public service obligations imposed by GOT on bus companies, and
establishment of new urban transport financing mechanisms.
(d) Interurban Transport: (i) a privatization plan approved for the interurban bus public monopoly,
SNTRI, and bids invited from private firms for concessioning of SNTRI lines representing no less than
50 percent of total traffic revenue; and (ii) establishment of an organization to regulate and monitor
private concessions.
Two years into implementation and despite early delays caused by underestimated technical and political
issues, the program has reached milestones most critical to meeting development objectives. Gaps remain in
a few areas but a better understanding of how to close them brought Government to renew and strengthen
its initial conmmitments under detailed and time-bound action plans. A detailed account of project
performance against Phase II triggers is given in Section 4 below.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
This project, constituting Phase II of the APL, is primarily intended to address needs in the Urban
Transport sector, but also undertakes a limited range of actions in the rail sector the need for which became
evident during implementation of Phase I. The following describes the issues in each of these sub-sectors.
Urban Transport Issues
Managerial - Twelve companies called SRTG ("Societe Regionale de Transports de Gouvernorat")
provide a mix of urban and interurban bus services in as many Govemorates. In the greater Tunis area,
three companies provide services, including light rail (Societ du Metro Leger de Tunis or SMLT),
suburban rail (Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens or SNCFT) and bus services (Societe
Nationale de Transport or SNT). The latter operates a bus network comprised of 163 urban and suburban
lines totaling 5,300 kilometers. All three companies are public enterprises, including the SRTG, which are
joint-stock companies with central and local govemnments holding majority participation. Two private bus
operators maintain a token presence in the greater Tunis market which they entered in 1988 and 1995, and
carry less than 2 percent of collective transport demand in seat-only services.
Several factors have a negative impact on the sector's managerial performance. Law 96-74 of July 29,
1996 restricting managerial autonomy of public enterprises bears heavily on urban and interurban
transport: oversight by the Ministry of Transport (MOT) extends to day-to-day business activities, but still
fails to achieve coordination of services. Employment levels are rigidly managed. For instance, SNT has
too few drivers but too many administrative personnel. Salary scales prevent companies from attracting
and retaining the expertise they need. Wage increases for the civil service at large are controlled by the
Government, irrespective of productivity levels, and strongly unionized labor further restricts efficient
management of human resources. Strict public procurement rules aggravated by measures to protect the
local bus assembling industry constrain investment choices and execution. In short, managerial dynamism
is stifled by too many outside controls and interferences.
- 6 -



Regulatory - Law 85-77 of August 4, 1995 constitutes an incomplete framework for urban and interurban
transport in that service categories are loosely defined, and the frontier between public anad private transport
is imprecise. Pricing of services is controlled by the Government and loosely related to costs. Public
enterprises are modal monopolies in Tunis and territorial monopolies elsewhere. The dilution of
responsibilities among the Ministries of Interior, Equipment and Transport, and the local govermnents -
Conseil de Region (CR) and municipal councils - is not conducive to integration of transport and urban
development. Local governments are normally in charge of urban and interurban transport within their
respective jurisdictions. However, the statutory mission assigned to public transport monopolies, the deficit
of transport expertise in municipal governments, and networks that often straddle several jurisdictions have
led to much of the authority on urban transport being exercised by MOT (Decree 91-96 of January 14,
1996).
Public enterprises currently operate on the basis of "Contrats Programmes" (CP) signed with the Minister
of Transport. While this system has improved in recent years, it still is undermined by weak planning
capabilities (a weak data base in particular), too many objectives difficult to reconcile and, most of all, by
Government inability to fully meet contractual obligations, particularly financial ones.
Financial - Poor financial performance in the sector can partially be attributed to public service obligations
(PSOs). School children and students are transported at token fares, which are only 6 percent to 20 percent
of standard ones, and free transport is given to handicapped people, security personnel and journalists.
Public transport enterprises have experienced a rapid growth in ridership at discounted fares. The share of
students and pupils in the combined SRTG traffic rose from 40 percent in 1990 to over 60 percent in 2000,
while SNT experienced a nine percent increase (from 36 percent to 45 percent) in ridership at discounted
fares over the same period. Compensation received for PSOs has fallen increasingly short of needs. For
instance, the SRTGs collected DT22 million in 1995, or 88 percent of their entitlement, while in 1998, they
collected DT30 million, only 53 percent of their entitlement. Since the revenue base tends to narrow as
students take an increasing share in ridership, with costs rising at five to seven percent per annum,
conditions of financial viability are missing. Consequently, bus companies undergo recurrent and costly
financial restructuring - the latest in 1998 for the SRTG cost DT66 million. The financial restructuring
plan for SNT is expected to be approved and implemented this year (2000) at a cost of 1)T30 million.
Since public bus companies must finance most of their investments, these financial strains prevent timely
expansion of capacity, compounding their financial problem and making them unable to satisfy the growing
demand. The financial problems can be largely attributed to a tentative compensation system and lack of
reliable costing data. At present, MOT distributes compensation based on a forecast of public service
trips, the need for companies to break even and their varying opportunities to cross-subsidize services.
This pragmatic system somehow reduces the burden of subsidies on the Government budget but fails in that
public bus enterprises have lesser incentives to cut costs. Over the last two years (1999 and 2000), in
response to agreed actions under the APL, the overall compensation was adjusted upward to a near
satisfactory level of DT61.5 million in 2000, or 40 percent above the 1998 level. However, its distribution
among bus companies remains sub-optimal.
Social and Environmental - A number of social and environmental issues need to be addressed. Minor
overstaffing of publicly-operated bus services must be corrected (staff per bus in the fleet is in a relatively
satisfactory 3-6 range). SNT and the SRTG's respectively employ some 4,900 and 5,400 staff, and SNT
management has identified about 370 redundancies, while SRTG has some 540 redundancies (around nine
percent of total employment). While students and pupils are transported at token fares, and other
categories (handicapped people but also the police and customs officers, for instance, who enjoy free
- 7 -



transport for which no compensation is received by the transport companies - they account for about 10%
of SNT's ridership), a significant proportion of public transport users (some 25% at SNT) pay the full fare
which, for lower income families, may be too much of a burden as it is estimated that between 10 and 18
percent of their budgets could be spent on transportation (surveys will be carried out during project
implementation to assess the issue with more precision). This is in spite of the fact that overall
subsidization levels for bus operations in Tunis is around 31 percent. Insufficient growth in the supply of
public bus transport and the fast rising demand from students and pupils lead to overcrowded buses forcing
other users to either walk or resort to more expensive alternatives, including taxis and private buses. This
raises an equity issue since part of the student population may in fact be less in need of support than low
income adult riders. Road safety is compromised by often unprotected street crossings, narrow sidewalks,
and widespread illegal parking of cars in downtown Tunis, while on interurban roads, safety is jeopardized
by the subsidized "louages" who have earned a reputation for reckless driving. Traffic congestion is fed by
a rapid motorization rate and growing use of small private vehicles in the Tunis area, where the share of
public transport fell from 65 percent in 1975 to around 50 percent in 2000. Private cars and taxis account
for over 80 percent of particulate emissions during peak-hours in Tunis. As far as public transport is
concerned, the decision to buy buses conforming to the EURO II regulation from 1998 onward, is a step in
the right direction.
Physical Capacity Issues - With a population of about 2 million, growing mobility needs, and the highest
motorization rate of the country (about 70 vehicles per 1,000 population), Tunis is increasingly facing road
capacity constraints. Between 1985 and 1995, the average per capita trips per day rose 30 percent to 1.27,
while vehicle speeds during peak-time commutes fell below 10 kmn/h. There is a need to expand transport
infrastructure at a faster rate. Buses need enhanced facilities for better circulation, and pick-up and
drop-off of passengers. Road widening, tunnels and overpasses at major crossings, extension of the light
rail system, and even a new rapid rail transit system are among solutions proposed in the 1999 master plan.
These improvements will require more capital than public sources can provide. Maximizing the
productivity of existing systems, an essential project objective, will somewhat lessen these constraints.
Government Strategy - In essence, the Government's strategy for urban transport is to create conditions for
sustainable development of public transport. The overarching goal is to stabilize the declining share of
public transport in large cities, because it will help minimize investments, improve air quality and respond
to the mobility needs of disadvantaged segments. Implementation of this strategy involves actions in four
areas: (a) Identifying ways to more efficiently fund the Public Service Obligations of bus companies is key
to ensuring the financial viability of public transport. Other sources of financing must be identified in order
to reduce the burden of subsidies on the GOT budget. Raising these new resources locally is desirable
since it is there that external economies from a good public transport system accrue. Local taxation is still
too restricted to be tapped for transport. However, recuperating part of the economic surpluses generated
by public transport is the way to go in years to come. Whether it takes the form of local taxes, of a special
transport contribution by local employers or any other mechanism, the objective is to broaden the transport
revenue base and make it less vulnerable to political vagaries and general public finance constraints. (b)
Inducing a switch from private car use to public transport is another challenge. Besides aspects related to
economically efficient taxation of motorized transport, definition of a dynamic and comprehensive parking
policy is warranted. There is increased awareness of these issues as shown by recent initiatives to build
four parking areas in downtown Tunis under private concession contracts. A June 1997 study had shown a
dramatic reduction in the number of hours paid per parking space from about 1,400 h per year in 1983 to
424 h in 1996. Presently, the avoidable cost of a private car commute is barely more than public transport
while offering much more comfort and flexibility. An upward revision of parking fees must be considered.
Using the excess revenue that the municipalities could derive from it could be an economically efficient way
to fund part of public service obligations imposed on urban transport companies. (c) A third area of
-8-



strategic interest is improving planning and management of bus lines, in particular to redirect subsidies to
segments of the population that are most disadvantaged in terms of mobility. (d) Finally, there is a critical
need to develop management and regulatory capabilities at local government levels to make sure that the
urban transport reform is sustained in the future. In addition to these strategic concerns, public bus
companies need to be supported through financing new bus depots and workshops, and helping them
overcome current managerial weaknesses, particularly in personnel management and cost accounting.
There is also a desire to seek private sector participation in financing of a rapid rail system that was
approved in 1999 as an important component of the urban transport master plan for the Greater Tunis area.
In line with the above strategy, a new transport law is to be submitted to Parliament to revise the regulatory
framework of urban transport. The new law will follow guidelines set forth during a cabinet meeting on
April 13, 2000, which are:
(a) The Government will approve in the near future the financial restructuring of the Tunis bus
and light rail companies, as well as the layoff of some 366 SNT employees.
(b) Heightened priority to public transport and the quality of bus services will be actively pursued
by the Government to curb growth of private car use.
(c) The Government has adopted the principle of full compensation to public bus companies for
loss-making school transport services; the compensation for services provided free of charge to
various organizations will be negotiated between them and the transporters, and stipulated in each
contractual arrangement.
(d) Government responsibilities for funding of urban transport will be limited to subsidization of
studies and investments in the construction of bus depots and inter-modal stations.
(e) Urban and regional bus transport will be divided into two categories: (i) standard services in
densely populated areas through the provision of regular and coordinated bus services; and (ii)
on-demand services to be offered by licensed companies.
(f) When there is more than one public operator in a region, they will be merged to achieve good
coordination of their services.
(g) Public bus companies will be entitled to subcontract to private providers the services mostly
used by students and school children.
(h) The Government will be responsible for definition of the legal and regulatory framework for
urban and suburban bus services, including funding and pricing mechanisms. Management and
regulation of these services will be entrusted to the "Conseil Regional" at the Govemorate level
with the exception of the Greater Tunis area where the set up and modus operandi of a managing
and regulatory Authority will be considered.
(i) Regional transport master plans will be an integral part of urban development master plans.
Furthermore, the road development plans within urban areas and the regional public transport
plans will be among official tools to implement the regional transport master plans.
These guidelines adequately address major issues of management, coordination and funding of urban
transport services that had been outlined by the project preparation study in urban transport. They depart
-9-



slightly from the initial reform blueprint in two areas:
(a)  The decision to set up an authority for the Greater Tunis area is on hold until all stakeholders
in the proposed institutional development have had the opportunity to meet and discuss
practical solutions to setting up a joint management of urban transport by the four
Govemorates and the even larger number of municipalities involved. Some caution is indeed
warranted in the complex institutional environment of the capital city: not exerting it would
put the whole reform in jeopardy. Moreover, the merging of bus and light rail services,
which has been agreed, will alleviate transport coordination issues which are an important
concem.
(b) While the scope of private participation in urban public transport is widened to include
subcontracting of special services, the Government is reluctant to proceed on fragmenting
bus services among several operators, each competing for their market in the Greater Tunis
area, as advised by the Bank. Given the complexity of managing lines concessioned to
several operators, the Govemment's caution is understandable, and starting with capacity
building to manage this complexity is an acceptable first step.
Railway Issues
Phase I of the APL was meant to adequately address major railway issues and the program's design
did not anticipate a need for further support. A key element of this approach was a substantial increase in
the phosphate transport tariff to help the railway become financially viable. This approach has since been
invalidated by a Government decision to modify the railway pricing policy toward the phosphate industry.
In short, the Government realized that the planned increase in the phosphate tariff was no longer acceptable
for two reasons:
(a) while its medium term development prospects remain good, the phosphate industry is currently in
the midst of a market downtum which was not the case when the Govemment and SNCFT agreed on
the railway Performance Contract (PC) that included significant tariff increases for phosphate
transport (annual increases of 4 percent from 1997 to 2001);
(b) a Bank-financed study in 1999 on improving the performance of SNCFT's phosphate network
concluded that removing operational inefficiencies through capacity enhancements, deployment of
modem communications networks, and downsizing of staff, could reduce the phosphate transport
cost by an amount sufficient to avoid the tariff increases planned under the PC.
The phosphate industry is a key pillar of the Tunisian economy, generating 10 to 15 percent of the
country's export earnings. Consequently, its strategic interests carry much more influence than those of
SNCFT. The industry's argument that they cannot afford to bear the excess cost of railway inefficiencies
is hard to refute, and the Government is reluctant to try to force a tariff increase, especially in light of the
above-mentioned Bank study. The Cabinet decision in early 2000 to deny the tariff increase sought by
SNCFT was therefore not unexpected, and the Project Agreement with SNCFT will need to be amended to
reflect this new reality.
The Government was fully aware of the dramatic impact that the tariff freeze would have on the
railway's finances. The phosphate activity is strategic for the railways, accounting for about half of traffic
revenues, and the "phosphate network" which comprises no more than 22 percent of the national track
length produces 52 percent of total ton-kilometers. The only way to bring SNCFT back to financial
- 10-



sustainability and meet the Program's objectives, without a tariff increase, is to eliminate excess costs, but
this will require additional investment to achieve the desired cost savings. The request to add a railway
component to Phase II of the APL was discussed during supervision of the Phase I project, and was
officially communicated to the Bank by a letter dated July 15, 2000 by MOT.
Staff downsizing is a key feature of the program to cut phosphate transport costs. At present,
some 1,750 staff are assigned to operating the phosphate network. The first project preparation study
carried out before Phase I showed that streamlined conditions would only require sorne 950 staff. An
update of the phosphate transport market prospects was carried out late in 2000 showing that the staff
redundancy program would be of lesser magnitude: the latest assumption is a reduction of 750 staff of
which 350 would result from normal attrition and the balance from layoffs. With severance payments
estimated at DT15,000 per employee, the program costs amount to DT6 million. Nevertheless, this
program will be executed over five years and synchronized with the implementation of investments for
operational improvements. Severance payments will be made out of the Govermment budget.
Other than track rehabilitation which is ongoing, major changes targeted ulder the proposed
investment program relate to: (i) increasing train gross-weights; (ii) streamlining train management, which
requires modernization of communications and train control devices to maximize capacity while
maintaining safety standards; (iii) doubling the track between Aguilla and Gafsa (4.2 km) and the bridge
on that same stretch where all traffic from the mining lines 14 and 15 converge; and (iv) improving
performance at the workshop to raise the availability rates of locomotives.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
Performance triggers for Phase II of the APL are detailed in Supplemental Letter No. 7 of the
Phase I loan docurnents. They include satisfactory implementation of the agreed investment plan for
transport from 1997 to 2001, commnitrnent of at least 50 percent of Phase I loans prior to initiating Phase
II, and accomplishment of specific milestones which were described in Section 2. Implementation of the
transport plan is indeed progressing well, and commitmnents of Phase I loans have exceeded 60 percent of
their total amount. Out of the 12 milestones, six were totally or substantially reached, three were partially
reached and three were not reached. All these milestones do not carry the samne weight for measuring
project performance, and this can only be achieved by discussing the status of actions on each milestone,
which is done in the following paragraphs.
Transport Sector Milestones
Transport investment as a share of GDP to reach 2.8 percent The Ninth Plan (1997-2001)
includes transport investments totaling DT2.678 billion which were reviewed during appraisal of Phase I.
The target of 2.8 percent of GDP for transport investments was derived from that forecast and compares
with the average 1.8 percent ratio registered during the Eighth Plan. Following a slow start, transport
investments have accelerated and by end 2000, their cumulative amount since 1997 should be close to DT3
billion, or well above the plan forecast. In 1999, the actual ratio was 3.5 percent and is expected to be
above 3 percent in 2000. This milestone was reached.
Private sector share of transport investments over 30 percent An important objective of the
APL is for the private sector to take a larger role in the transport sector. With the exception of trucking,
which was privatized in the early nineties, the transport sector was still largely public at the onset of the
Ninth Plan. Under the agreed Program, the Government committed to liberalize/privatize a number of
- 11 -



activities, especially in ports and shipping. The private share in transport investments was estimated at
around 24 percent in 2000 or below the agreed target. Formally, this milestone was not reached. However,
private investment has grown very significantly from about DT93 million in 1997 to an estimated DT200
million in 2000, which was the real objective. The private sector share of the total is lower only because of
a surge in public investments in 1999 and 2000 (to double the levels in 1997-98), driven primarily by the
renewal of the Tunis Air fleet, a public enterprise with private shareholding (since 1997, up to 20 percent
of its stocks have been traded on the Tunis stock exchange), which finances its investments from private
sources. Excluding Tunis Air from the public investment totals would raise the private share of transport
investments to 36 percent. Based on the above, one has to conclude that the milestone is substantially met.
Reduction of transport subsidies to less than 0.5 percent of GDP    Actual transport subsidies in
2000 have been estimated at around DT135 million or 0.49 percent of the foreseen GDP. Perhaps more
significant than a ratio, difficult to measure with absolute accuracy, is the clear trend to lowering its level:
in 1998 and 1999, the ratio was 0.57 percent and 0.53 percent respectively. The same 0.53 percent ratio
had been reached in 1997, but in a very different situation where transport was still severely underfunded:
the costly financial restructuring plans implemented in 1998 for the railways and regional bus companies
added DT 150 million of budget support (some 0.7% of GDP). The financial status of the transport sector is
healthier at present. The milestone is met.
Share of public transport in Tunis at least 55 percent    The underlying rationale for this
milestone is that Government needs to stop the erosion of public transport in major cities, starting with
Tunis. The 1995 household survey had estimated the public transport share at 57 percent in 1996-1997,
which led to selection of 55 percent as a target, recognizing that streamlining public transportation would at
best stabilize its market share given the rapidly increasing motorization in Tunisia. A PHRD-financed
study completed during Phase I reassessed the share of public transport to have been 51 percent in 1995
(see Systra: Organisation et Coordination des Transports Urbains et Regionaux de Voyageurs en Tunisie
. Rapport de Diagnostic definititf Octobre 1998, page 48). The value chosen for the milestone was
therefore incorrect and not meeting it has no relevance to actual project performance. What is clear is that
curbing the growth of private car use in the Greater Tunis Area is at the core of the Government policy,
and the transport master plans adopted in 1999 for the three largest cities focus on promotion of public
transport. This is solid proof of the Government's commitment to program objectives. Hence, this
particular milestone is substantially met.
Ports and Railways Milestones
New port legislation and regulations in place    Law No. 99-25 for the port sector was
promulgated on March 18, 1999. Nine decrees were needed to implement this law and most of them have
been published. Decree No. 99-1940 fixing the composition and working procedures of the Conseil
National des Ports is an important step toward user participation in port management and was published
on August 31, 1999. Decree No. 2000-1001 providing the list of ports falling within the purview of the
law and managed by the Office de la Marine Marchande et des Ports (OMMP) was published on May 11,
2000. Missing decrees, which will all be published before year end, cover matters of secondary
commercial importance (for instance, admission of warships; statutes of port officers; establishment of
passenger terninals). The ten Ministerial Orders ("Arr6t6s") that complete the framework have all been
finalized and many of them have been issued. Concession contracts and corresponding detailed terms and
conditions, each to be issued by Ministerial Order, have been drafted and submitted to the Bank for
comments. This milestone is partially met.
- 12-



Restructuring of STAMThis action is part of a broader program to reform cargo handling (in
particular, the possibility to open the port of Tunis-Rades-La Goulette to competition). STAM itself has
recovered and is now profitable. Options for STAM's future have been reviewed with the help of
consultants, and the one that has the Government's backing consists in cutting costs (a social plan would
pay severance to about 350 redundant staff), opening its capital to a foreign strategic investor, and placing
STAM in a competitive environment, with the exception of existing port facilities in Rad6s, where it would
remain the sole operator pending construction of a new container terminal under a concession contract. The
importance of Radbs is such (practically all containers and close to 90% of the Roll on-Roll off traffic are
handled there, a combined traffic amounting to nearly 2 MT or 40% of the national general cargo traffic)
that opening it to a second operator is not only possible but desirable as well. Keeping STAM as a sole
operator in the interim could be admissible, provided such privilege would be exerted within a time-bound
contract that would include covenants including performance targets and safeguards against discrimination
between users. STAM's restructuring also hinges on implementation of the dock labor reform. The dock
labor monopoly has been abrogated by the passage of the new Law No.99-25 but its implementation had to
be deferred. Prevailing conditions are harmful to the economy as the monopoly results in oversized gangs
which inflate cargo handling costs. Statutory positions within gangs are often fictitious and one individual
assigned to one gang can at the same time collect payment for his "work" in another gang where he is not
physically present. Furthermore, the system may create an artificial labor shortage which will force ships to
wait before their cargo can be handled. Lengthy negotiations in 1998 and 1999 were umable to reach an
amicable arrangement for transition to the new status for port labor and normal gang sizes. Toward
resolution of this issue, the principle of compensating dock workers for the loss of their monopoly (and the
loss of their jobs in some cases since the port labor force is believed twice as large as needed) was adopted
in 2000 by the GOT. Strictly speaking, the milestone has not been reached. Yet, this difficult reform has
effectively been tackled and the Government prepared a time-bound action plan to bring it full fruition
which was discussed with the Bank and found acceptable. Formal presentation by the GOT of its Action
Plan to restructure STAM, open all ports to competition including Rades after construction of a container
terminal by a private concessionaire and eliminate the dock worker monopoly, is a Condition of Board
Presentation.
Restructuring of CTN (Compagnie Tunisienne de Navigation) With regard to CTN, a Cabinet
meeting on August 12, 1998 had agreed on its restructuring. Basically, while CTN's legal status would
remain unchanged, the company would be fully commercialized and would operate in a competitive
environment. Its business plan calls for it to refocus on its core business, namely the tbans-mediterranean
Roll-on/Roll-off and ferry services, and container transport to and from Europe. Implementation of these
plans are far advanced: CTN funded and executed a severance program that allowed it to reduce its staff
by half and the ships that do not serve the core functions are being sold (one cargo vessel was purchased by
a private investor in November 1999). Presently, Tunisian shipowners have a market share slightly below
20%, of which CTN holds no more than 6 percent. Based on these developments, the milestone regarding
CTN is substantially met.
New railways legislation and regulations in place   Law No. 98-90 for the railway sector,
redefining the relationship between SNCFT and the Government and providing for its operation under a
concession contract, was promulgated on November 6, 1998. Earlier, Law 98-74 of August 19, 1998
redefined the railway police regulations. The all important railway financial restructuring was made
effective by Law 98-89 of November 2, 1998. Decree 99-2318 of October 11, 1999 approves the railway
concession agreement signed on September 9, 1999. With these, the foundation of the new railway system
has been put in place. The decree stating conditions under which SNCFT carries out its mission ("Cahier
des Charges") had been on hold because its provisions on intercity tariff freedom contradicted the terms of
- 13 -



an older law. This matter was arbitrated in early 2000 and remaining technicalities are being resolved.
Another important decree approving the new internal railway organization was due by June 30,
2000. While the decree has not yet been issued, the new organizational structure has been set up and
directors appointed for each business unit. Each director has the responsibility to design the detailed
organization with support from consultants partly financed under Phase I of the APL. In the Tunisian
system, decrees setting the organization of public enterprises need to be extremely detailed and the
Borrower and the Bank underestimated the effort needed to issue the decree. It will take at least a year
before all details needed in the decree are finalized. However, it should be noted that the organization that
has emerged is based on general principles that are consistent with Bank recommendations. In fact, private
sector participation in railway operations, a key objective, could materialize sooner than expected (a
public-private partnership is actively sought for maintenance of rolling stock).
This railway milestone is therefore partially met. The initial timetable set for publication of
detailed regulations did not take full account of implementation issues. The Government and the Bank
reassessed the situation and the former committed to a revised timetable for formal completion of the
institutional framework as part of the restructuring of loan and project agreements 4358-TUJN.
Budget support to SNCFT to be less than 60 percent of revenues  The agreed benchmark sets the
maximum budget support received by the railway at less than 60 percent of revenues. The 2000 budget
shows that SNCFT will receive DT22.1 million as operating subsidy. In fact, the real subsidy is equivalent
to DT13 million allocated to track maintenance, as the balance corresponds to compensation for public
service obligations imposed on SNCFT (from "social" fares to free transport of police and other
Government personnel), which should be considered as traffic revenue. In addition, SNCFT is to receive a
total of DT41.8 million as investment subsidies. The expected revenue for 2000 is DT1 08 million including
compensation for public service obligations. Budget support for SNCFT in 2000 therefore accounts for
about 50.7 percent of revenues (as compared to 55 percent in 1997). This milestone is met.
Urban Transort Milestones
Financial restructuring of public bus companies completed The regional bus companies
have been restructured. The financial restructuring plan adopted in 1998 pardons DT18 million in tax
arrears and transfers to FREP (in French: "Fonds de Restructuration des Entreprises Publiques") DT48
million of unpaid debt. The 2000 budget raised the compensation for public service obligations paid to
regional bus companies to DT45 million (from DT30 million in 1998) ensuring that the chronic financial
imbalances of the past will be avoided in the future. The financial restructuring plan for SNT has been
prepared and is estimated to cost around DT32 million. SNT management confirmed that issues that had
delayed the plan have now been resolved.  Despite financial weaknesses, traceable to insufficient
compensation (increased to DT16.5 million in the 2000 budget from DT13.5 million in 1999), SNT is a
relatively well managed company and the financial restructuring about to take place should be the last one.
The approval in principle of SNT's restructuring plan by the GOT, including a commitment to have the
financial restructuring reflected in the FY2001 financial statements of the company, is a Condition of
Board Presentation (this plan was approved on March 8, 2001, hence this milestone is met).
More autonomy granted to bus companies and decentralized urban transport management
Increased autonomy for bus companies is among the core objectives of the urban transport reform. Based
on the conclusions of a PHRD-financed study, the land transport directorate prepared a document
proposing a comprehensive reform for land transport. The proposed reform includes enabling public bus
- 14 -



companies to sub-contract bus services to private providers. In the case of complex networks within large
cities, which would continue to be operated by public companies, private concessions may be awarded
along specific route corridors. Authorities would be set up to regulate urban bus transport and given the
means (technical and financial) to carry out their duties. This reform blueprint was found adequate by the
Bank and by MOT but the milestone has yet to be met. In order to ensure a swift move to implementation
of the urban transport reform (which, among other things, requires that decisions be made on features of
the management and regulatory organization to be set up in the Greater Tunis area, and on pilot
govemorates where decentralized systems would be tested before their mainstreaming nationwide, including
the means that will have to be allocated to the pilots), submission of an Action Plan for implementation of
the urban transport reform will be a Condition of Effectiveness.
Full compensation of public service obligations The urban transport reform put forward by the
Government endorsed the principle of adequate compensation for public service obligations. Over the past
two years (1999 and 2000), the budget allocation to bus companies rose by DT 17.6 million, or 40 percent,
and the 12 regional bus companies now generate a surplus. There is still a need for fine tuning (for
instance, there needs to be incentives to raise productivity), and a further increase for SNT, which foresees
an operating deficit of DT 11 million in 2000. But the nature of the issue has changed in that the political
will is there and only technicalities remain to be worked out.
Interurban Transport Milestone
Interurban bus transport liberalization and SNTRIs restructuring Plan   The vision proposed at
the onset of Phase I of the program and reflected in the agreed milestones included approval of a
privatization plan for SNTRI (the inter-urban bus transport monopoly) and bidding for private concessions
covering no less than 50 percent of total interurban bus transport revenues. Phase II of the APL would
then have supported SNTRI in becoming financially viable.
Findings of the November 1999 supervision mission were that inter-urban bus transport would no
longer require support under Phase II of the APL. SNTRI's new management team has achieved a
successful turnaround of the company and, rather than cutting services and staff, they are restructuring the
network and expanding profitable services. Once the company has established a track record of
profitability, the plan is to sell stocks to the public. This privatization path, while different from the one
originally envisaged, has the advantage of following a successful model in the region: that of Morocco's
CTM-LN. Before restructuring SNTRI, the GOT has stated its intent to liberalize interurban bus transport
which is the step most important to the economy.
This milestone has not been reached. In hindsight, its importance may seem rather limnited in
achieving project development objectives since SNTRI is not in a position to dominate the interurban
transport market in any way: it competes with SNCFT, the "louages", and informal transport. Nonetheless,
liberalization of interurban transport remains a valid objective since it will further expand the scope of
competition and raise productivity. Therefore, submission by the GOT of its Action Plan to liberalize
interurban transport and restructure SNTRI is made a Condition of Loan Effectiveness. Furthermore, a
non-dated covenant is included in the Loan Agreement requiring implementation of the Action plan.
- 15 -



C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Phase II of the APL is comprised of three components:
(a) Under the first component, which is dedicated to urban transport, an investment program will
be carried out to improve public bus services through enhanced maintenance of the fleet and
traffic management practices, streamline operations of the light rail system in Tunis, and
finance severance payments to about 900 redundant employees of public bus companies.
(Cost US$36.2 million).
(b)  The second component will support institutional capacity building at decentralized level in
management and regulatory matters which the urban transport reform needs to succeed. It
includes technical assistance to public bus companies and to the new local management and
regulatory structures, and the related training and studies for preparation of bidding
documents for construction and extension of mass transit systems in the Greater Tunis area.
(Cost US$3.0 million).
(c)  The third component will raise the productivity and cost efficiency of phosphate transport by
rail through the implementation of an investment program to modernize traffic management
systems and increase the infrastructure capacity in the phosphate railway network, the
strengthening of the autonomous business unit in charge of that network and financing of
redundancies generated by the implementation of the modernization investments. (Cost
US$17.4 million).
Urban transport component
The objective of this component is to raise the performance of public bus companies by providing
them with adequately sized depots and better workshops, to help SMLT optimize its operations, to
strengthen its maintenance capabilities to cope with aging trainsets and upcoming major overhauls that will
soon be required, and to reduce the revenue shortfall from an increasing number of free rides as trains
become more crowded and fraud easier (about DT3 million are expected to be recouped annually by setting
up better collection systems, or the equivalent of the compensation SMLT receives from the Government in
return for its public service). Proposed investments include the following:
* A new bus depot for SNT in Tunis (US$6 million) to eliminate the capacity shortage, which results
in overcrowding of existing depots and adversely affects preventive maintenance, and to improve
operational performance. Preliminary and final plans and specifications will have to be prepared
and approved by the National Contracts Office. Purchase of the land is not financed by the Bank.
*  A new bus depot for Soretras in Sfax (US$4.4 million). Plans call for the improvement of
approximately 5.5 hectares to accommodate 200 buses, which at present, are- scattered among
makeshift parking places along public streets in violation of urban traffic plans. A steel canopy to
protect buses and other company vehicles from the high saline content of the atmosphere, which
accelerates rusting, will be provided at the new depot. The study to prepare bidding documents will
- 16-



be financed by the bus company.
*  A new bus depot for Societe des Transports du Sahel (STS) in Sousse (US$4.9 million). Here the
problem is not lack of space, but poor conditions under which buses are curTently parked and
maintained. The project will finance the construction of a paved parking area for 150 buses, a new
workshop dedicated to preventive maintenance with an area of 8,700 m2, and the rehabilitation of
existing workshops with an area of 2,700 m2. These figures are based on a recent cost estimate,
but the depot master plan is based on a concept that was defined some 10 years ago, and will be
updated before investmnents would be implemented and completed by mid-2003. STS will finance
the study.
*   Modemization of bus depots in other main cities (US$0.7 million). The investment needs were
assessed during the preparation of five-year contracts that were signed with MCiT for the period of
the Ninth Plan (1997- 2001). Investments are relatively small, ranging from DT15,000 in Beja to
DT810,000 in Nabeul. It is envisaged that a fund be created and managed by MOT to support
investments in the various SRTGs (with the exception of Sfax and Sousse). A consultant would be
selected following a local competitive bidding process to prepare tender documents of economically
justified projects in the following categories: (i) rehabilitation of workshops and garages; (ii)
acquisition of maintenance equipment; and (iii) acquisition of computers and software.
i  Development and deployment of a traffic control system for SMLT (US$4.6 million). This system
would include the following components: (i) computer hardware and software needed to ensure
positive control of any trainset in real time; (ii) a communication network linking each trainset with
the Centralized Traffic Control system (CTC) console; (iii) on-board communication equipment;
(iv) information transmission protocol; and (v) public address system. The objective is to raise the
transport capacity through more efficient use and coordination of train operations. The launching
of this component hinges upon the results of a detailed needs study that will be used to prepare
tender documents. These will be sent to prequalified equipment suppliers that would have
demonstrated experience in design, fabrication, installation and operation of similar systems. The
selected manufacturer would be responsible for training and technical assistance to SMLT during
the installation phase, and for the operation of the system for two years afterwards, including
further training and technical assistance. The recommendations of the study ;should be approved
by SMLT during the year 2001. A manufacturer could then be selected by mid-2002, and
full-scale CTC operation in place by July 2004. The study to prepare the bidding documents will
be financed by the Bank loan. The CTC equipment of software will be financed from other
sources.
*  Definition and implementation of a fare collection system for SMLT (US$4.3 million). Using
proceeds from its own budget, SMLT will finance a US$100,000 study to evaluate its fare
collection needs. This study should define the type of system to put in place and produce the tender
documents. The selected manufacturer would help in training personnel and in supervising the fare
collection operation for a period of two years after its installation.
*  Upgrading of maintenance capabilities at SMLT (US$1.3 million). This would cover a review of
existing maintenance procedures, definition of a program to improve maintenance operations, and
acquisition of needed equipment and computer software. The investment level will be fully
assessed by a study, the cost of which was estimated at some US$400,000 by SMLT. The cost of
facilities equipment was tentatively estimated at US$1.7 million, including physical and price
contingencies. This component would be jointly financed by SMLT and the Government.
*  A severance program for bus companies (US$10 million). SNT and the SRTG have about 9
percent of staff in excess of their needs (or about 900 people). The projectl will allow them to
- 17 -



eliminate these redundancies in order to make room for recruitment of categories of personnel
which are in short supply (management, drivers).
Sector management component
Under Phase 1, the project began supporting the building of needed capacity within the Ministry of
Transport, developing quality transport sector statistics, and training staff. Phase II will build on this
experience and support technical assistance and training to the staff of the regional bus companies,
including SNT in Tunis, Soretras in Sfax and STS in Sousse, toward improving their productivity and level
of service. Phase II will also include specific pilot projects, studies and training for local capacity building
in urban transport planning, management and regulation. This component is comprised of the following
actions:
*   Technical Assistance (TA) and Training Program (US$0.7 million). To increase the efficiency of
operations and management of the urban bus compapies, TA will be provided to: (i) develop new
management techniques and methods; (ii) train senior personnel in planning of services, fleet
management, analytical accounting, communications with bus users and human resources
management through intensive courses, seminars, and discussions with experts; and (iii) acquire
computer hardware and software to ensure proper execution of the project;
-   Consulting Services (US$1.2 million). This component includes the execution of studies related to
the two following objectives: (a) preparation of bidding documents for new construction and
extension of mass transit systems (e.g., rapid rail system, light rail system, intermodal stations) in
the Greater Tunis area to be implemented during the Tenth Plan (2002-2006); (b) preparation of
transport master plans and traffic plans for cities chosen as pilots for setting up of the
decentralized management and regulatory entities, other than Tunis, Sfax and Sousse, where such
plans have already been completed; terms of reference for these studies will be prepared during the
first year of project implementation.
- Assistance to development of the new urban transport entities (autorites organisatrices and
structures techniques des transports) (US$1.1 million). This component will strengthen the new
institutions in charge of urban transport management and regulation. Studies and expert advice
needed to address issues related to systems and procedures to make the new entities fully
operational are estimated at US$1.2 million and they would be financed by the Government.
Phosphate railway transport component
The second component is a recent addition to Phase II of the APL. As stated earlier, it was
requested by the Govenmment in July 2000 in order to meet the project objective of financially sustainable
railways without having to raise the phosphate railway tariff and to increase the rail transport capacity to
accommodate the larger traffic induced by the medium term expansion of the phosphate industry.
Productivity increases will be achieved through various project means.
*   Increasing Track Capacity and decreasing operating costs (US$11.7 million). The plan is to
double the existing track section over the 4.2 km section between Aguila and Gafsa (including the
bridge over the Oued Bayech), install a Centralized Traffic Control system (CTC) on the
Sfax-Metlaoui, Sfax-Gabes and Founi-El Hamada itineraries, set up a Computer-assisted Radio
Block (CRB) on the Gafsa-Gabes itinerary, upgrade the signalling and telecommunications systems
- 18 -



that are needed to operate the above-mentioned CTC and CRB.
*   Severance Payments (US$4.3 million). Implementation of the measures described above will lead
to progressive reduction of up to about 660 staff working in the phosphate network. This
component will be financed by the Government.
*   Technical Assistance (US$1.3 million). Consulting services include detailed engineering studies of
project investments, control of works, and set up of the Radio Block system, including associated
training. Technical assistance for the development of structures and procedures needed by the
phosphate business unit will also be provided.
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
_  USsM)   Total     (US$#)  financina
1. infrastructure improvements for  Urban Transport    16.10      28.3      11.00      29.3
public bus companies
2. Development of traffic control and    Urban Transport    10.20  17.9      4.20       11.2
maintenance systems at SMLT
3. Severance payments to redundant    Urban Transport    10.00     17.6     10.00       26.6
bus employees
4. Consulting services to public urban   Urban Transport  0.70      1.2      0.70        1.9
bus companies
5. Assistance to development of    Urban Transport      1.10        1.9      0.70        1.9
management and regulatory entities for
urban transport
6. Urban transport and traffic studies    Urban Transport  1.20     2.1      0.00        0.0
7. Upgrading of the railway phosphate   Railways       11.70       20.5      9.60       25.6
network.
8. Severance payments to redundant  Railways            4.30        7.5      0.00        0.0
staff of the railway phosphate unit.
9. Technical Assistance to the railway   Railways       1.30        2.3      1.00        2.7
phosphate unit.
Total Project Costs                   56.60      99.4      37.20      99.0
Front-end fee                     0.37       0.6       0.37        1.0
Total Financing Required                     56.97     100.0      37.57     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The core content of the urban transport reforms was approved by the Government on April 13,
2000 as stated in Section B3. Details will need to be worked out in coming months toward preparation of a
new land transport law that will bring the urban transport reform to full fruition. Presentation of this law
to Parliament could reasonably be expected within two years or by December 31, 2002. the key aspects of
the reform are summarized hereafter.
*   Decentralization of planning and regulating responsibilities to multi-provincial authorities in the
greater Tunis area and Sahel, and to CRs in all other cases will be sought for better integration of
- 19-



transport in urban planning and coordination of transport services. However, proposals for the
future authority to be set-up in the greater Tunis area were not accepted at the April 13 meeting
which called for more analytical work. Monitoring progress of this work will be critical to meeting
project objectives since Tunis is where enhanced urban transport management is most needed. Its
launching is a condition of effectiveness and submission to the Parliament by December 31, 2002
of the draft land transport law, including aspects related to Tunis, is a loan covenant.
*   Improving the mechanism through which transport companies are compensated for costs incurred
in providing public services to achieve full and stable funding, and to give the beneficiary
enterprises strong incentives to achieve productivity gains; and, as a second step, broadening the
revenue base to finance such compensation through mobilization of local resources, tapping
external economies generated by public transport in the local economy. This second step will need
further study before action can be taken.
*   Expanding the scope of private sector participation in the delivery of urban transport services by
subcontracting specialized services. Pilots will be implemented at the beginning from which
lessons can be drawn before mainstreaming the experience. Meeting this target will be closely
monitored in the early years of project implementation.
* Further progress will be sought toward liberalization and restructuring of interurban transport,
including pricing freedom.
* More effective parking policies to improve bus circulation and promote the use of public transport.
The Project will support a study on these issues, and an action plan will be submitted to the Bank
by June 30, 2003.
The above is consistent with the Letter of Sector Policy dated May 27, 1998 under the APL.
However, the addition of the railway component to Phase II alters the strategy to make the railways
financially viable. This, together with the updated knowledge on the best way to set up the business unit
for phosphate transport by rail, justifies the preparation of a complementary Letter of Railway Policy
focusing on phosphate transport. The letter was discussed at negotiations and its content agreed. The
signed Letter will be sent through the Minister of Transport before Board Presentation.
3. Benefits and target population:
Bank financed investments will contribute to making bus and light rail operations more
cost-efficient by reducing excess staff, adding much needed depots and upgrading workshops. Three layers
of direct beneficiaries have been identified:
*   the public transport enterprises (SNT, SMLT, SRTGs), which will be able to earn profits and
invest in response to market needs;
*   the Government, and hence the tax payers, who would no longer subsidize operational
inefficiencies and bear, every five years or so, financial restructurings to protect the public bus
companies from bankruptcy; and
*   the users, as receivers of more reliable and comfortable, and yet affordable, urban transport
services.
Beyond these direct benefits, the project will, over the long-term, help stabilize the share of public
transport services provided by public sector entities within cities. The ever increasing need for larger
infrastructure investments (overpasses, tunnels) that would be required if the growth of private vehicles
was left unchecked will be deferred or partially avoided. Finally, air quality will improve by curbing the
explosive growth of private cars in city traffic.
- 20 -



Under the railway component, benefits will accrue to:
*   the phosphate industry, which will be able to mine and process phosphate in greater quantities
when current capacity bottlenecks are removed;
*   the Government and the tax payers, since the cost savings in rail transport of phosphate rock and
its derivates will reduce SNCFT's need for national budget support; and
*   SNCFT, which will enhance its profitability by cutting operating costs.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The implementation period will extend from  June 2001 through December 2005.  The
organizational structure used to implement Phase I of the APL will also be used during ihe second phase.
The Project Management Unit (PMU) within MOT would ensure coordination of project related actions ("
Direction generale de la planification et des etudes" or DGPE) and manage the Special Account for the
project as it did satisfactorily under Phase I. A Project Agreement will be signed with SNCFT, the
designated executing agency for the railway component. For the other entities benefiting from the project
and associated to its execution, namely SMLT, SNT, Soretras (in Sfax) and STS (in Sousse), the plan is
for them to sign a Protocole with the Minister of Transport in which their responsibilities will be specified
as well as procedures they will have to follow (particularly for procurement, disbursement, project financial
management and reporting requirements). These four companies will be the executing agencies for
investments in bus depots and workshops, development and installation of operational and management
systems as well as Technical Assistance directed to their needs under the urban transport component. They
will designate an accounting staff to liaise with the PMU during project implementation and ensure that the
information is timely recorded and submitted to it. For the smaller SRTGs, DGPE will review and approve
investment proposals, and release funds on the basis of invoices showing that the works have been
executed.
The Steering Committee, appointed by the Minister of Transport in March 1999, will extend its
responsibilities to Phase II of the APL. Comprised of representatives from the ministries of Finance,
International Cooperation and Foreign Investment, Econonmic Development, Transport, Environment and
Balanced Land Development, this body oversees project implementation, ensures comapliance with the
objectives set forth in the Letter of Sector Policy, and adopts programs and investments prior to their
submission to the Bank.
Bi-annual Bank reviews will take place in the field as follows: (a) the first in late April will focus
on the implementation results of previous year investments and Technical Assistance. Prior to this review,
DGPE will submit a two-part report covering the investment and institutional developrment program for
urban transport in Tunisia, with a special emphasis on Bank-financed items and progress achieved in
executing the phosphate railway modernization program; (b) the second review will take place in late
October and focus on draft budgets for the corning year to check consistency between Government
proposals and the transport strategy underpinning the APL. A mid-term review will be organized in
October 2003, and will evaluate project achievements against previously agreed targets and measures to
keep the project on track in meeting development objectives.
Financial Management Systems (FMS)
The Project Management Unit (PMU) financial management capacity has been reviewed with
MOT on the basis of current organizational structure, staffing, accounting practices, linancial reporting
and internal controls, auditing arrangements, and institutional framework with overseeing authorities. The
- 21 -



major financial and accounting functions are based on public sector accounting principles and procedures,
and are adequately handled by a competent staff member. However, some strengthening is desirable for
consolidation of project financial data as well as providing cumulative and detailed information required by
the Bank. The PMU needs to expand its Chart of Accounts and improve the Project Management Report
(PMR). A detailed assessment of the PMU, and the accounting procedures and financial reporting as well
as internal control and related action plan are provided in Annex 6 and in the PIP.
The PMU, aware of the need to strengthen its financial management procedures and reporting
systems, has developed an action plan to address shortcomings. The action plan includes expanding its
Chart of Accounts, updating the Financial Management Procedures Manual (FMPM) and implementing a
data processing system that covers project activities and staff training.  Strengthening the existing
accounting and financial reporting system will provide the tools to properly document project transactions
and provide, as required by the Bank, quality information in standardized PMRs. The PMU already has a
system to report the activity of the Special account (SA) and expenditures by contract and by category that
meets the minimum Bank requirements. No later than July 31, 2001, the PMU will adopt and submit to the
Bank the account procedures and the financial reporting system as well as internal control mechanisms
specific to the project and in compliance with the Bank's requirements that will be reflected in the FMPM.
SNCFT is a public enterprise designed to operate as a commercial entity ("Etablissement Public a
Caractere Industriel et Commercial"). It has established a financial management system for the project
that meets Bank requirements.  The system as well as internal control mechanism  and reporting
arrangements have been set up for the first phase of the APL and will continue under its second phase. The
system is operated by a well staffed and competent project management unit which liaises with the PMU in
the MOT, which is responsible for the implementation of Phases I and II of the APL. SNCFT financial
statements are audited by an independent auditor, and audit reports have been submitted to the Bank on a
regular basis. Audit reports contain some qualifications which are being addressed by SNCFT.
Auditing Arrangements
Annual audit of project accounts, project financial statements, financial statements and accounts of
SNCFT, special account activities maintained by the BCT, and SOE-based disbursements will be carried
out in accordance with international auditing standards as issued by the International Federation of
Accountants. Independent auditors acceptable to the Bank will be hired on the basis of terms of reference
to be agreed with the Bank. The auditors will review and give an opinion on the project financial
statements, the accuracy and appropriateness of the project accounts, the activity of the Special Account
and the use of statements of expenditure. Annual audit reports will be submitted to the Bank within six
months after the end of each fiscal year, the first such audit will be due by June 30, 2002.
Disbursements
Although disbursements would be made using the Bank's SOE-based disbursement procedures, it
was agreed that PMU would operate the project financial management system and produce semi-annual
Project Management Reports (PMRs) from the system; and that PMU would take necessary steps
(especially the adoption of a computerized system and the recruitment of a consultant) to produce and
submit to the Bank a reliable PMR on a semi-annual basis. Retroactive financing will be allowed to a total
of Euro 4.1 million (10% of the loan) for eligible expenditures incurred after January 3 1, 2001.
- 22 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Prior to confinning the Project's basic design during Phase I negotiations, other alternatives had
been discussed with the Borrower, as outlined below.
* One alternative consisted of tackling the urban transport problems through more traditional investment
lending to bus companies, including SNT and others. The project would have covered part of SNT's
bus fleet renewal program over a given period, combined with Technical Assistance to upgrade their
management systems. It was felt, however, that resolving issues at the operational level might fail to
properly address more deeply rooted regulatory issues and lack of decentralized/specialized urban
transport authorities. Capacity building there is as important as the one needed by bus operators. Also,
investments to finance buses would have been sizable, and the Bank loan was too small to have an
impact. Finally, the companies' interest in borrowing for new buses faded when they discovered that
onlending of the Bank loan would be at standard terms in Tunisia to avoid financial market distortions.
e   Another alternative considered (non-exclusive of the former) would have been to address the urban
transport funding issue at its roots by developing a framework to ensure full funding of costs incurred
in providing mandated public service obligations. It was felt that fully funded companies would be
able to operate services and invest whenever warranted by urban transport demand. Hence, the
proposal made to help GOT finance the transition from an underfunded to a fully funded bus transport
system (namely, by bridging the compensation funding gap on a decreasing basis over a given time
span). However, the Government rejected this approach, deciding instead to bear the costs of the
adjustment. Overall, the 2000 budget is not far from what it would take to fairly compensate the bus
companies for costs incurred in meeting their PSOs.
*   In tenns of policy choices, the case had been made to follow the London approach consisting of setting
up an authority that does not own the urban transport infrastructure and equipment, but sets service
standards and fares, and tenders routes or groups of routes in a market open to bids from public as well
as private bus enterprises. The Government was uneasy with that formula because (a) there was a risk
that incumbent public companies might be forced out of the market, exacerbating redundancy issues,
and (b) high management capability would be required by the authority to organize the market, tenders,
and monitor concessions. They feared the coverage of social needs would deteriorate with outright
privatization and lead to public protests. The Government felt safer with the current approach, which
splits management responsibilities between the authorities and the public companies for urban bus
transport. The reform blueprint adopted by the Government may be considered as a satisfactory
transition to a more open system where private as well as public finns would comapete for routes.
Organizing such competition and sustaining it over the long-term is demanding, and requires adequate
managerial and regulatory capacity.
* As for the new railway component, the alternative that had been thought feasible until recently was to
defer modernization investments and ask for a higher tariff that would fully cover SNCFT's costs for
transporting the inputs needed by the phosphate industry. As discussed earlier, that did not work, and
the addition of the railway component to accelerate investments to upgrade infrastructure appears to be
the only viable alternative to meet the objective of making railway operations profitable on all lines of
business, including phosphate.
- 23 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Other than road projects in Tunisia, there have been only three Bank-fmanced operations involving
the transport sector.  The Public Enterprise Reform  Loan (PERL), closed in June 1993, sought
improvement of public sector management and reduction of budgetary transfers to public enterprises, two
of which were SNT and SNCFT. The objective was to make these enterprises financially healthy and
operationally efficient. The use of performance-based contracts was introduced in Tunisia for the first
time, and the authorities had to move up the learning curve with respect to honoring contractual obligations
and disengaging from the day-to-day business of public enterprises. The PERL outcome was rated as
marginally unsatisfactory. The first Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan (ECAL) closed in
December 1997. It addressed macroeconomic and fiscal issues at large and, in particular, promoted
liberalization of shipping and ports. It fell short of its transport objectives in that restructuring of CTN did
not materialize in time, but the market was indeed liberalized and private shipowners have since entered the
liner market. The major drawback was eliminating the dock workers monopoly and opening up the cargo
handling market in the La Goulette-Rades port system to private enterprises. The new port law passed
after ECAL's closing did eliminate the dock workers monopoly, but current practice contradicts the law.
Formal elimination of STAM's monopoly did happen before completion of ECAL, but with no concrete
results and to date, no enterprise has been authorized to enter STAM's captive and lucrative market (Tunis,
La Goulette and Rades). Phase I of the APL became effective in December 1998. Early results are
discussed in B4 above, but on balance, project implementation is satisfactory.
I    Latest Supervision      ]
Sector Issue             E         Project            X      (PSR) Ratings
________________________________           i;_______________________  (Bank-finan ed   projects   only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Port reform and modernization       APLI (1998)                         S              S
Railway reform and modernization    same as above                       S              S
Sector management capabilities      same as above                       S              S
Competitiveness of Tunisian firms   Export Development Project
Projects completed:
- public sector management (reduction   Public Enterprise Reform Loan                 U
of budgetary transfers to PEs and   (Loan 31 09-TUN)
promotion of competition)
- inadequate regulations and weak   Economic Competitiveness                           S
public monopolies in trade-related areas Adjustment Loan (Loan
(maritime transport, ports, trade   4069-TUN)
logistics in general)
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Several lessons can be drawn from past projects in Tunisia, including:
- 24 -



* Projects involving several ministries are more difficult to implement because they call for strong
coordination that can be undermined by differences in roles assigned to each. With less involvement
comes weaker project ownership. This consideration led to the elimination of road safety from the
project's scope because MOT would not have the lead on that matter.
*   Clarity in the definition of project objectives is critical, as is strong government commitment to meet
these objectives, especially for privatization.
*   The introduction of private competition to a market segment that was previously captive to parastatals
must be done in the context of a broader privatization strategy. Doing it in isolation increases the risk
that the GOT would eventually give in to pressures from incumbent monopolies in favor of the status
quo.
* Sector reforms, particularly restructuring of public enterprises, cannot be improvised as many
entrenched interests could easily derail them. Building a consensus in favor of reforms is a key
condition of success. Quality Technical Assistance is paramount to convincing people and overcoming
technical obstacles. Such a challenge is more easily addressed in a program that takes a relatively
long-term perspective by providing an overall policy framework and sequential projects. What then
becomes essential is to have monitorable benchmarks to ensure continuous progress toward
institutional objectives and sustain the initial government resolve to meet them. This is why the APL
instrument was used.
v   The Contrat-Programme system can be useful to improve performance of public enterprises that the
government is not yet ready to privatize (especially by performance targeting and strict delineation of
PSOs they are assigned), but does not guarantee their actual implementation. Beyond the initial
commitment, there should be a continued dialogue and close monitoring of the impact of changing
conditions by all parties. Consistency between the expected budget support and macroeconomic
conditions, and proper integration of financial and operational aspects at the preparation stage (lesson
drawn from the PERL) are vital for success.
* Finally, the strength of unions should not be underestimated. Reforms leading to redtndancies should
.be combined with explicit measures to mitigate negative social irnpacts.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Over the past five years, the Borrower has willingly engaged in dialogue with the Bank on urban
transport issues. Its commitment to creating conditions for sustainable development of public transport in
the main Tunisian cities is strong. Urban transport master plans were approved by the Government in
1999, and the goal of promoting public transport is at their core. More adequate budget resources have
been forthcoming in recent years. The financial restructuring of the SRTGs shows the Government's
determination to create conditions for financially sustainable transport. The same measure will soon apply
to SNT. A blueprint of the reform and the orientations of the new transport law were approved by an
Interministerial Committee meeting held on April 13, 2000.
A positive outcome of the Bank dialogue with Tunisia on urban transport has already materialized
in that GOT raised the compensation of PSOs assigned to urban bus companies by 50 percent between
1997 and 2000, and the financial restructuring of 13 provincial public bus companies has been completed
and is imminent for SNT.
MoT has always been very proactive in handling urban transport and SNC.FT's issues with
particular reference to the phosphate transport tariff. The Bank's views have been thoroughly discussed
with MOT. When a decision had to come from a higher level, the MOT demonstrated great efficiency in
preparing documents related to sector reforms within the scope of the Program objectives, based on which
the Government was able to decide.
- 25 -



Finally, experience with early implementation of the first phase of the APL has been positive. This
project could be achieved by end of December 2002.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
*      The Bank has worldwide and extensive experience in formulating and implementing appropriate
strategies to address urban transport needs, and Bank advice on project-related matters and transport at
large is clearly of value to the GOT.  The transport strategy within the Ninth Plan under
implementation derives from an analysis that was conducted jointly by GOT and the Bank (Report No.
14846-TUN plus the Etude sur la strategie des transports published in the Middle East and North
Africa series of Bank Economic Studies in 1997). GOT's recent expression of interest in transport
concessions, an area in which they have limited experience, opens a new field where Bank guidance
could again make a difference.
* The Bank has a long history of assisting governments worldwide to address urban transport issues.
Lessons were drawn from successes and failures met by the cohort of urban transport operations, and
also from the experience of non-borrowing countries (the United Kingdom in particular). The Bank
has a wealth of knowledge on best practices in the sector, which GOT can tap.
- The Bank's experience with urban transport in Tunisia (it administered the PHRD grant used to finance
the urban transport reform study which led to joint recommendations by MOT and the Project Team)
will greatly facilitate consensus building.
- 26 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)
The economic analysis for this project encompasses the bus and railway investments, plus the bus
severance program.  Economic justification is strong in all cases. Investments which have not been
analyzed because technical studies are not yet completed or individual amounts are too low, represent a
combined share of about 40 percent of total sub-project costs financed by the Bank. No economic analysis
was attempted for Technical Assistance in view of typical uncertainties on how fast and how large benefits
will accrue.
Bus depot in Tunis
SNT is currently constrained by lack of space to park its bus fleet and perform preventive maintenance.
Building the bus deport, including the acquisition of land, is estimated at DT7.2 million without taxes.
Benefits are expected to come from: (i) less frequent collisions within depots; (ii) reduction of "not in
service" trips; (iii) increased labor productivity at the workshops; (iv) extension of the bus life-cycle
through more systematic preventive maintenance; and (v) increase in the fleet availability rate.
The net present value (NPV), discounted at 10 percent, is equivalent to DT5.5 million and the economic
rate of return (ERR) is 19 percent. A sensitivity analysis has been carried out showing that the economic
justification would be impaired only under most unlikely circumstances.
Bus depot in Sfax
The bus company, Soretras, has no depot. On-street parking in three areas has been tolerated by the
municipal government till now, but pressure has mounted to free up these areas. The development of a
private depot will alleviate a number of constraints currently faced by the company, and benefits are
expected to come from: (i) a higher fleet availability with preventive maintenance translating into more
kilometer traveled per year and per bus; (ii) less frequent collisions during parking maneuvers; (iii) saving
on security and mobile crews in charge of routine maintenance; and (iv) lowering the incidence of corrosion
since buses will be parked under cover and protected from the prevalent humid and salty air. The NPV,
discounted at 10 percent, is equivalent to DT1.8 million, and the ERR to 17 percent. The sensitivity
analysis shows that the economic justification would be impaired only under most unlikely circumstances.
Bus depot in Sousse
A preliminary analysis of economic benefits to be derived by STS from modernization of its bus depot and
adjacent workshops has outlined five sources of benefits: (a) increased productivity on the life cycle of
buses amounting to investment savings; (b) reduced incidence of vehicle breakdowns and of related costs;
(c) reduced staffing per bus in the fleet; (d) fuel savings from better tune up of bus engines; (e) less
out-of-service mileage for buses. The payback period was estimated as 11 months only. An economic
study will be carried out based on the findings of studies to specify the layout of new facilities and prepare
the bidding documents. The same methodology as the one for SNT and Soretras will apply.
Modernization of the phosphate railway network
Transport of phosphate rock by rail was reviewed by consultants, who concluded that a mix of
infrastructure investments, upgrading of workshop equipment, organizational improvements and revision of
inadequate procedures, prevention of sand accumulation on the track and deployment of modem
- 27 -



telecommunications systems would allow for smoother circulation of heavier trains and reduce staffing
needs. A four-km stretch of track that acts as a bottleneck will be doubled. The investment is estimated at
DTl5 million without taxes. Benefits are expected to come from: (i) longer and heavier trains; (ii)
increased traffic safety and fluidity; (iii) reduced train maintenance costs; and (iv) reduced management and
indirect costs. In addition, the analysis checked the impact of incremental mining benefits made possible in
the future by the larger railway transport capacity. Without mining benefits, the NPV, discounted at 10
percent, is equivalent to DT6.3 million, and the ERR to 20 percent. Accounting for mining benefits, the
NPV is raised to DT43.5 million, and the ERR to 70 percent. The sensitivity analysis shows that the
economic justification would be impaired only under most unlikely circumstances.
Staff severance program for bus companies
The program targets a total of 907 redundant staff, of which 366 work for SNT and the balance for the
twelve SRTGs. These staff are unproductive with some suffering from chronic illnesses resulting in high
rates of absenteeism. Others were reassigned from duty aboard buses to ill-defined positions or jobs for
which they are not or poorly qualified. There are also quite a few holding positions that are no longer
required. The analysis carried out by a consultant revealed that 80 percent of the SRTG's redundant staff
were 50 years of age or older, and for them, early retirement is appealing. For SNT, the situation is
different since only 28 percent of the targeted staff is 50 years or older.
From the employers' perspective, the program is especially attractive since its cost is paid by the national
budget, hence their wage bill will be reduced. Taking a broader sector view, which includes the severance
costs (about US$12 million) in the calculation, the economic analysis has identified static and dynamic
benefits: (i) the former is what the companies will save on wages and contribution to social security
benefits over the expected working life expectancy of the staff released; (ii) the latter comes from a higher
labor productivity of the staff remaining, especially in the workshops (low performers tolerated on the job
tend to discourage others to do their best; staff reduction will make room within regulated limits for
recruitment of specialists and drivers that are too few at present). The NPV, discounted at 10 percent, is
equivalent to DT32.3 million, and the ERR to 165 percent when both static and dynamic effects are
accounted for. Without the dynamic effect, the NPV is lowered to DT28.9 million, and the ERR to 109
percent. The sensitivity analysis shows that the economic justification would be impaired only under most
unlikely circumstances.
From the nation's perspective, the key question is to ascertain what the redundant workers who still need to
work for a living will be able to do so after they are released. Age is an important factor and, at least for
the SRTGs, this question has little relevance. The economic analysis has opted for inclusion of the
severance costs (as they are paid by the national budget). By the same token, the savings on labor were also
accounted for because, should the redundant labor be maintained, the national budget would indirectly be
called to subsidize this inefficiency which prevents companies from breaking even. Regarding rehiring
possibilities, the analysis made assumptions on chances to find a job in each province (from 35 percent in
major towns to 15 percent in economically depressed areas), and the level of salary they would collect (50
percent of what they received in SNT for instance; only 30 percent of their former salary in more remote
areas). Assumptions were also made on possibilities to start informal activities after being declared
redundant as the package would permit the purchase of a small plot of land or a small shop to engage in
commercial activities. The informal sector is extremely dynamic in Tunisia and it offers the best
opportunities to make a living for those losing their jobs but still needing to work. Furthermore, the
economic analysis included assumptions on the costs of Government programs designed to facilitate
re-employment (retraining costs were taken at an average of DT1,100 per staff) and on minimal social
assistance that would be available to redundant employees before they reach the minimum age to collect a
pension. Finally, pension funds were found to be negatively impacted when they have to pay a pension
before the normal retirement age, even though the annual payments are reduced from what they would be
otherwise. The overall loss was estimated at DT5.6 million and the economic calculation from the nation's
- 28 -



perspective has taken this into account.
The NPV, discounted at 10 percent, is equivalent to DT18.9 million and the ERR to 67 percent. If the
severance payments on the one hand and the labor savings on the other hand are not considered (a very
unlikely situation), the NPV is reduced to DT7.2 million (the cost elements are limited to negative pension
outflows, social support extended and retraining expenses, and the benefits on the productivity gains of the
remaining labor force). The costs are relatively low and the net economic benefits are always positive.
With this kind of flow, standard calculation of the ERR leads to multiple answers. Since the pension fund
losses are the most important, their net present value was entered in year 0 (instead of showing them as a
cost flow) and the ERR was then calculated as 31 percent. The conclusion is that the severance program
has a robust economic justification from the nation's perspective.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Past and Current Financial Performance of PTEs
PTEs collect revenues from various users. Transport tariffs, assessed on the basis of distance covered by
riders, are charged directly to users and/or invoiced monthly to the concerned administration. PTEs also
receive Government compensation for costs incurred in meeting PSOs that are not covered by fares, in
particular, journalists and handicapped persons carried for free. These two sources of revenue cover PTEs'
operating cost, including depreciation, except for SNCFT, SNT and Societe Regionale de Transport du
Gouvernorat de Sfax (SORETRAS), which still incur operating losses. Overall, PTEs are not able to
generate enough cash to finance their operations and portion of needed capital investments. As such, the
transport fleet has not been renewed, and preventive maintenance not carried out as systematically as it
should, which contributed to a deterioration in services provided to users, and losses that reached from 2
percent to 18 percent of total revenues. PTEs still heavily rely on Government subsidies to finance part of
their operations and all of their investments in infrastructure. Total budget support for operations reached
some DT307 million between 1997 and 2000. In order to save PTEs from bankruptcy, the Government
had to restructure their finances several time: for SRTGs, the latest restructuring plan was adopted in 1998
and became effective in 1999 and 2000. SNCFT underwent a financial restructuring in November 1998,
and SNT is currently awaiting a Government decision on its own restructuring plan. Together with the
estimated SNT plan, these plans will have burdened the public finance by a total of about DT200 million in
the last three years.
PTEs' income statements, cash flow statements, and balance sheets for the years 1987 through 2004 are
shown in Annex 5. Through 1999, PTEs were not performing satisfactorily and experienced cash
shortages. Despite the cash contributions made by the Government to compensate for PSOs related to
students and pupils, the financial performance of PTE's remains unsatisfactory. Payments meant to bridge
the gap between the cost of services provided to certain users and the actual price they paid were not
appropriately allocated. In addition, free transport given to certain users is not ccompensated at all
(amounting to about 10% of SNT's ridership). Finally, family members of those employed by the PTEs
ride for free, a foregone revenue that varies from 4 percent to 13 percent of total traffic revenue, depending
on SRTGs. A review of the audited financial statements for 1997, 1998 and 1999, indicates an
inappropriate financial situation and poor labor force efficiency.
An examination of some key financial ratios underscores the unsatisfactory performance of the PTEs.
Certain ratios for SNT, SNCFT, SORETRAS, STS and SMLT, including operating ratios, total wages
compared to total revenues and to the value added, are rather high and illustrate the lcw productivity of
personnel, while accumulated losses eroded the equity positions of all PTEs except STS. Debt ratios are
rather high for SORETRAS and STS at 50 percent, 55 for SMLT and 72 for SNT, but they are acceptable
- 29 -



for SNCFT.
Financial Ratios for PTEs in 1999
SNT          SNCFT        SORETRAS           STS           SMLT
Operating          112%           114%           101%            96%            96%
Ratio__                           _ _  _ _   __  _ _   _  _
Total Wages to      67%            48%            57%            53%            51%
Total Revenues
Value Added         96%            88%            81%            72%            63%
Accumulated         89%            33%            18%            N.A.           37%
Losses
Debt Ratio          72%            36%            50%            50%            55%
The deterioration of the financial performance and unsatisfactory structure were due to rapidly rising
operating costs, deferred tariff adjustments (the last increase - 5% - was granted in July 1998), high labor
costs, and partially unfunded PSOs. Aware of this lack of performance, MOT and PTEs' management
carried out a study in 1998 to identify needs and remedies to overcome PTEs' financial shortage.
The measures taken in 1999 and 2000 will have a positive impact on PTEs' financial position, which
consist mainly of consolidating balance sheet items, and revising the level of subsidies to be provided, and
defining new performance contracts with specific commitments and obligations of the Government and
PTEs. New entry balance sheets that reflect the financial restructuring will be adopted by each PTE in
2000 and 2001. The outlook is expected to be positive thereafter.
Future Financial Performance
Financial projections and their underlying assumptions are summarized in Annex 5, and the more detailed
statements are in the project file. Two basic goals have been pursued in the financial projections. The first
is recovering the cost of operations and maintenance activities. PTEs' future cost recovery policy is aimed
at preserving their short- and long-term financial viability while providing users with affordable services.
PTEs' revenues are expected to continue to cover a substantial part of its operating expenses, and the
overall level of Government subsidies will depend on the development programs of the PTEs. Government
subsidies would be maintained at a level adequate to bridge the gap between the cost of services provided
and the price paid by students and free transport (to be limited to 35 percent and 20 percent by 2005 for the
SRTGs, and SNT respectively). The Government would continue to subsidize total investments related to
infrastructure. The second goal is to maintain a sound and satisfactory financial structure. PTEs should
be able to maintain a positive cash position and generate operating surpluses throughout the forecast period
(2000 - 2004). Satisfactory cost recovery will enable PTEs to become financially viable and sustainable.
Between 2001 and 2004, working and operating ratios are expected to decline for SNT, SNCFT, STS,
SMLT and SORETRAS, reflecting improvements in personnel cost-efficiency. Over the same period, it is
also anticipated that debt ratios will decline to more acceptable levels for SORETRAS, STS and SNT,
while SNCFT and SMLT will retain the satisfactory levels achieved in 1999.
- 30 -



Proposed Financial Ratios - 1999 to 2004
SNT          SNCFT       SORETRAS           STS           SMLT
Working Ratio    97%-81%        96%-84%        86%-83%        80%-74%        70-67%
Operating        112%-97%       114%-91%      101%-98%        96%-98%        96%-95%
Ratio
Total Wages to    67%-57%       48%-45%        57%-52%        53%-43%        51%-49%
Total Revenues                             I                             I
Value Added      96%-75%         88-73%        81%-75%        72%-63%        63%-60%
Debt Ratio       72%-95%        36%-20%        50%-42%        50%-29%        55%-23%
Fiscal Impact:
The project seeks to address financial, managerial, and operational inefficiencies that weaken the
performance of public entities providing bus services and the transport of phosphate rock and derivates by
rail. These two activities are still heavily dependent on national budget support. Indeed, they will account
for about half of the total budget support to the transport sector in 2000. The full analysis of fiscal impacts
is in the project file, and the following is a synthesis of its main findings for each of the two
above-mentioned cases.
1 .    Bus Transport. The Government's contribution stagnated over 1995-1998 (from DT40.8 million to
DT43.9 million), which led to a widening in the funding gap for public bus companies nationwide, and an
increase in net operating deficits from DTl.8 million to DT18 million. The bus companies became
increasingly cash strapped and a financial rescue had to be organized by the Government. The financial
rehabilitation plan for the SRTGs was put in effect in 1998 at a cost of DT66 million. For SNT,
restructuring needs have been estimated at DT30 million and the Government is expected to adopt the plan
shortly. In the last two years, the Government raised its compensation of public service costs incurred by
the bus companies to DT61.5 million. The sub-sector is still facing a projected overall net operating deficit
in 2000 (about DT10 million) showing that the cycle of underfunding of the compensation followed by
costly financial restructuring of bus enterprises has yet to be broken.  The underfunding of the
compensation stems from three factors: (i) national budget constraints; (ii) the compensation mechanism;
(iii) excess costs due to operational inefficiencies. Another consideration is that the budget support goes to
a narrow group of users (students and school children mostly) who may not need this support as much as
poorer segments of society. The two-pronged strategy under the project is to eliminate operational
inefficiencies and cut costs (for instance, subcontracting is advocated as a way to provide some services at
lower costs), and eliminate redundant labor and sustain a high level of performance through the right
incentives (like streamlined performance contracts and a compensation system that does not reward
mediocre performers).  Strengthening urban transport management is also expected to enhance the
coordination of services and further cut costs. The outcome is clear: bus transport will no longer require
financial restructuring and the compensation per rider will be lower in the future since the transport cost
per rider will decrease. The calculation spanning 15 years leads to the conclusion that, by implementing
the agreed strategy, the Government will save (net present values discounted at 10 percent) DT600 million
in terms of avoided financial restructuring, and DT250 million in terms of productivity gains that will
reduce the need for annual compensation.
2.    Railway Services to the Phosphate Industry. The same argument can be applied here in that these
services are currently priced below costs, and the funding gap ends up being financed by the national
budget. In 2000, the railway company collected DT66 million of budget support (operation and capital
- 31 -



subsidies). An attempt was made to bring the tariff on transporting phosphate in line with costs, but it
failed. Pending implementation of railway investments designed to cut the cost of transporting phosphate
per ton-kilometer by about 20 percent in 2006, the Government will be forced to compensate SNCFT for
the foregone revenue from its clients in the phosphate industry. The economic calculation over 2001-2016
shows that the net present value (discounted at 10 percent) of fiscal benefits is equivalent to DT16.2
million.
3. Technical:
Studies for projected investments are based on proven techniques, and risks of project failure on technical
grounds are negligible. Those investments that will necessitate special attention include the development of
computerized systems for SNCFT (centralized traffic control system, train-ground radio communication
system, etc..) and SMLT (traffic control system; fare collection system). The techniques that will be used
have already been tested around the world, and associated risks easily managed, provided that procurement
of systems is carried out in a transparent and acceptable manner, and that studies detailing the
characteristics of the system are done by competent firms and reviewed by specialists in or outside the
Bank.
4. Institutional:
The project will support the creation of local or provincial urban transport management authorities and
develop their technical branch to: (i) conduct or back-stop studies needed for better definition of market
needs and corresponding strategies; and (ii) prepare and implement regulations. Proposed Bank funding of
incremental costs to establish these entities will ensure that capacity building at the new institutions is
commensurate with their new responsibilities. The project will also help transporters (SNT, SRTGs,
SNCFT, SMLT) modernize their management systems and strengthen their in-house expertise to attain
better operational and financial efficiency.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Transport will be the executing agency for Technical Assistance and investments
benefiting small SRTGs. SMLT, SNT, Soretras, STS and SNCFT will be the executing agencies for
project activities related to each of them. All have a competent staff to handle procurement and financial
activities.
4.2 Project management:
The Ministry of Transport will manage the project and coordinate the execution of the various components
through the PMU, already in charge of implementing the first phase of the APL with a competent staff. The
PMU will delegate procurement activities including contract management to a project liaison officer in each
of the PTEs.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The experience with procurement through early implementation of Phase I of the APL has been positive,
and there is every indication that procurement under Phase 2 will also be problem-free.
4.4 Financial management issues:
PMU. A review of the financial staff, the accounting and financial reporting systems of the PMU
and Direction des Etudes Sectorielles et de l 'Analyse Financiere at the MOT indicates that the two entities
are adequately staffed with highly competent and motivated management and advisory teams. However,
some fine-tuning of the PMUs accounting procedures and of the PMR is warranted, for timely
consolidation of project financial statements and reports, as well as for provision of cumulative and detailed
- 32 -



data on the use and flow of funds, contracts management, disbursement activities, and planned and
budgeted expenses by category and contract in accordance with Bank requirements. The PMU would be
responsible for developing a project specific financial management system including issuance of a Financial
Management Procedures Manual (FMPM) and installation of an accounting and reporting software. The
risk of delays in financial reporting, non compliance with the FMPM and late submission of data for the
PMRs will be mitigated by the signing of a Protocole between the MOT and each of the participating PTEs
(except SNCFT). A consultant will be hired before the end of February to develop the financial reporting
system and the FMPM, including the acquisition of a software to run the relevant applications.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
This project is the second phase of an APL and, like the first phase, has a category B rating based on O.P.
4.01. Investments that could conceivably bear adverse environmental impacts are reviewed hereafter.
1.    The proposed bus depot at Bokri (in the Tunis suburb). SNT has prepared an environmental
impact assessment that was approved by the Tunisian Environmental Protection Agency (TEPA). Besides
the technical approval of the Environmental Assessment (EA) report by the TEPA, the National Land
planning Commission has released in mid-June 2000 an order allowing abstraction of the said piece of land
from the agricultural sector patrimony. The Bokri site used to be planted with some trees, mainly olive
trees. From an environmental point of view, uprooting of the trees is of marginal importance as there is no
biodiversity issue involved in this case. The decree to transfer the land to SNT and authorize its use for
development of a bus depot and a workshop has been cleared by the authorities in charge of the
environment. The capacity of the bus company SNT with regards to environmental good practice has been
assessed positively as the company strictly follows national wastewater discharge regulations as enforced
by the national sanitation agency ("Office National d'Assainissement" or ONAS) and by the environmental
protection agency ("Agence Nationale pour la Protection de l'Environnement" or ANPE).
2.    The proposed bus depots in Sousse and Sfax. It is relevant to underline the fact that the two sites
in Sfax and Sousse are already the properties of the bus companies, respectively Soretras and STS, that
both of them are located in industrial zones, and that the bus companies are already fully (Sousse) or
partially (Sfax) operating from these sites. Potential issues for these facilities are: (a) treatment of used
engine and transmission oils; (b) management of the mn-off wastewater (for instance, from bus wash) and:
c) management of the exhaust gas quality.
For the bus depot in Sfax an EIA has been prepared and submitted both to ANPE and to the Bank (received
on October 3, 2000).
For the bus depot in Sousse, the bus company has also prepared an EIA and submitted it to ANPE with
copy to the Bank (received on January 17, 2001).
(3)    Railway infrastructure upgrading near Gafsa.The last sub-project considered for Bank
financing for which an environmental assessment is needed is the 4.2 km doubling of the existing
single-track railroad track section used for phosphate transportation between Aguila and Crafsa as it entails
some earthworks, laying of tracks, as well as doubling of the existing bridge over Oued Bayech. The area
where the works will be carried out is arid and not populated. The company will prepare an EIA within the
technical studies for this sub-component (they will be financed by the loan).
The finalization of the EIA (acceptable to the Bank) for the doubling of the railway track and the
bridge is a condition of disbursement in the Loan Agreement for this sub-project.
- 33 -



5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The Bank has reviewed the EA report prepared for the Bokri site and found it acceptable. The mitigation
measures address the main impacts related to wastewater discharge, spent-oil management as well as solid
wastes. Moreover, the company environmental practices have been assessed and found responsible in at
least one of its existing sites.
It is worth mentioning that a company is in charge of collecting all the used engine oils for recycling
purposes in its plant near Tunis, thus alleviating the problem hazard of used oil being discharged in sewer
lines or natural water bodies. Moreover, ONAS and ANPE are strictly enforcing national regulations with
regards to the discharge of wastewater.
The national plan for air quality improvement prepared with the support of the Bank as part of the first
phase of this APL was recently completed after an extensive consultation involving many sectors. It will be
signed by five ministers (Environment, Industry, Transport, Commerce and Finance) and sent to the Bank
on June 30, 2001 at the latest. The main actions towards improvements of the fuel quality, particularly
with regards to sulfur content and dust emission characteristics of diesel fuel, will contribute to alleviate the
bus fleet's impact on air pollution.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: April 2000 for the Bokri site EA report
October 2000 for the Sfax site EA
report; January 2001 for the Sousse
EIA report.
For the doubling of the railway track (including the bridge) and because this component was added late to
the project, the environmental assessment is not yet available. An outline of terms of reference of the EA
study has been discussed with the Bank (it is included in the project file) and on that basis which is
consistent with Bank guidelines, will be expanded and finalized, then submitted to the Bank for approval.
Satisfactory conclusion of the EA constitutes a condition of disbursement for railway investments which
ensures that the EA will be carried out prior to commencement of the railway component and that this
component will be carried out in a manner consistent with the requirements of OP 4.01.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
For the Bokri site, the project is expected to generate some emissions (liquid and solid wastes) that will be
taken care of by appropriate technical solutions, as described in the EA report. Intense bus traffic at
certain times of the day could also generates some nuisances (noise for instance) for the local population
(the village of El Bokri is 400 meters away from the site) if the depot main entrance is on the village road
side.
In Tunisia, the regulation on impact assessment (decree No: 91-362 of March 13, 1991) does not include
an explicit public consultation process nor a disclosure policy; so, although the Bank usually acknowledges
the Tunisian EA procedure, and in order to comply with the Bank's Environmental Policy O.P. 4.01,
information and consultation of stakeholders will be organized in close cooperation with the Borrower
during the project launch seminar.
The Enviromnental Impact Assessment for the Tunis, Sfax and Sousse bus depots will be made available
for public information in the country and will be sent to the Bank's InfoShop for project disclosure at least
30 days before Board presentation.
- 34-



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
For the Bokri site as well as for the Sfax site, the wastewater quality as well as the proper management of
spent oils have been specified and the procedures to achieve this objective have been described in a
satisfactory manner in the EA report.
For the other two sub-components, monitoring mechanisms will be defined in the EMP section of the EAs.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Three key social development issues arise in relation to the objectives and expected bernefits and costs of
this project, which seeks to improve the efficiency and quality of transport services and the better targeting
of transport subsidies. (a) Distribution of benefits. Since it is generally those in the poorer socioeconomic
strata who rely more heavily on public transport services, they suffer most from. public transport
deficiencies and the relatively high cost in relation to household budgets, and stand to gain most from
improvements in its service and efficiency. However, some of the poorest and most marginal areas tend to
be excluded from public transport services for reasons such as insufficient road infrastiucture, or have to
pay higher charges for taxis or concession transport; (b) Information on user needs. In order to respond
more adequately to the varied transport needs of users, transport management requires more reliable and up
to date information; and (c) Impacts of redundancies. The planned workforce reduction in  the bus
enterprises and the railway (907 and ca. 400, respectively) have potentially negative socio-economic
implications that require analysis, mitigation and monitoring.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The key stakeholders in the project are the MOT, the urban transport and railway companies, and the
users; other stakeholders include employees and labor unions, and various other government ministries,
particularly the Ministry of Education.
The administration manages the relation between supply, demand and the overall public interest, with a
commitment to satisfying popular transport needs that are, to the extent possible, consistent with
cost-effectiveness criteria. Urban transport master plans and transport company work programs are not
prepared as a result of public or formal stakeholder consultations. Through a process of "administrative
consultation" they seek to harmonize major stakeholder interests, with a strong emphasis on the highly
subsidized transportation of schoolchildren in close consultation with the Ministry of Education.
The regulation of the rapidly expanding licensed taxi-van-minibus services that fill the unmet regional
demand for transport services is done through provincial Governorate transport comrnissions that have
formal representation of all major stakeholders: municipalities, labor unions, transport providers,
government ministries and consumer organizations.
Redundancy programs are negotiated with union representatives, and operate a transparent process: those
affected have volunteered for a severance package whose conditions are known and understood.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
- 35 -



Consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society organizations
See 6.2 above. Tunisia does not have a strong non-governmental organization (NGO) constituency or civil
society structure, but many administratively sanctioned avenues exist whereby citizens can and do make
their transport needs known: the comites de quartier, the municipalities, the ministries' Citizens Affairs
bureaux, the offices of the provincial governors and their subdivisions (delegation and Imadat).
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
(a) Studies undertaken for the preparation of urban transport master plans will include studies of the
mobility needs of the poorer groups who depend most on public transport, and of the issue of affordability
of public transport.
(b) Institutional arrangements to cover this activity are described in Section 4 above.  Improved
management capacity would include the ability to determine and respond to user satisfaction and unmet
needs.
(c) A short socio-economic assessment of the redundancy program was undertaken and is summarized in
Annex 4. The redundancy program has an essentially voluntary character, and the procedures for
identifying those affected are transparent. Of those affected, most are older employees eligible for
voluntary early retirement, while a smaller number are expected to obtain alternative employment or to use
their severance payments and other support mechanisms to initiate some alternative productive activity. A
wide variety of state-supported schemes exist to support microenterprise formation and training and
relocation costs for re-insertion in the labor force. However, presently there is no mechanism to study the
actual outcomes of redundancy on those affected, nor the operation of social safety net mechanisms. In
2003 a tracer study will follow up the socio-economic condition of bus company employees declared
redundant. This study might not be applicable to the severance of railway employees, the chronology of
which is not yet known but likely to be slower.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The socio-economic tracer study referred to in paragraph 6.4 will answer questions on social
impacts of the Bank-financed severance program and propose any further parallel measures needed to
mitigate hardship cases.
Indicators have also been selected to measure the project performance in relation to social
development needs on two criteria:
(a) satisfaction of mobility needs (>1.5 trips per day and per urban dweller in the Greater Tunis area
by 2006);
(b) affordability of public transport (<12% of their budget spent on transport by low income families
by 2006).
Surveys will be implemented as part of the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) to measure these indicators.
Finally, ad-hoc user surveys will be carried out in 2005 along the same methodology used by the
2000 assessment study of the light rail system in Tunis to determine the satisfaction rate of SNT and
SMLT customers.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
PoliQy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            * Yes 0 No
- 36 -



Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
For bus depots, project environmental summaries will be submitted to the Bank and ANPE in
accordance with provision of Decree No. 91-362. Should ANPE require a full Enviromnental assessment,
which does not seem likely at this stage, the Bank will not finance the depots unless it receives the EA and
is satisfied with its content and the adequacy of mitigating measures and systems to be set-up to monitor
compliance. This same approach is proposed for works to upgrade railway infrastructure.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The key to future sustainability is: (a) to implement a decentralized organization that is more responsive to
local urban transport needs with good in-house technical and managerial capabilities; (b) set up a
compensation system that would both cover the costs of PSOs and create incentives for public bus
companies to innovate and keep targeting productivity improvements; (c) help the transport companies
raise their level of performance through modernization of their facilities and management methods; and (d)
streamline railway operations related to phosphate to cut transport costs and, in the process, achieve
financial sustainability of the railways.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitig ation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Failure of the GoT programs to mitigate     M         Surveys will be carried out before the mid-term
social risks faced by redundant transport            review to assess social impacts (dated
staff (urban and railways).                          covenant). Corrective action will be requested
during the mid-term review if warranted.
Failure of the GoT policy to encourage      M         Technical Assistance will be provided to set up
the use of public transportation in cities.           the right incentive framework for use of public
transport within cities. An action plan will the
be derived and submitted to the Bank (dated
covenant). The project will also prepare tenders
for construction of new mass transit systems in
Tunis.
Failure to fully and timely fund public     M         Development of local funding sources tapping
service obligations imposed on urban                  economic surpluses fronl urban transport will
transport companies, preventing them to               minimize risks of dwindling compensation rates
become financially sustainable.                      from national budget.
- 37 -



Public bus companies pay lip service to     M         A loan covenant will set subcontracting targets
subcontracting of some of their services to           by a given date.
private operators.
Lack of motive power and larger capacity    M         The project sets 2005 as the target date for
railcars prevent using heavier payload                SNCFT to break even (the cash flow will then
trains in the phosphate network.                      be enough to invest in new rolling stock).
Cost savings in transporting phosphate      M         A dated covenant will (i) target intemationally
are not sufficient; the phosphate industry            benchmarked productivity gains, (ii) call for
clients refuse to pay a cost-based tariff.            signing of a cost-based tariff convention by
SNCFT and its phosphate industry clients.
From Components to Outputs
The severance program for workers of the    M         The PIP for the railway component will include
phosphate railway network is not fully                a financing plan and a commitment for release
funded by the GoT.                                    of funds.
Studies for construction of the bus depot   M         Disbursement conditions will apply
in Sousse and doubling of the track and               (sub-projects will be eligible to Bank financing
bridge under the railway component                    only if they meet agreed criteria on technical,
reveal technical, environmental or                    environmental and economic aspects).
economic viability issues.
Construction/equipment of bus depots and    N         Strict adherence to procurement guidelines and
workshops in general will require                     good supervision by the client (the relevant
competent, well supervised contractors.               executing agency) and by the Bank.
Investments in automated traffic control    M         These investments are part of the project
and in maintenance systems (bidding                   description and the Borrower will commit to
documents are financed by the loan) may               implement the project in an expeditious and
not be implemented.                                   efficient way.
Infrastructure construction and             N         Sound procurement and efficient supervision of
deployment of modem communication                     the works by consultants, the Borrower and the
systems for train circulation control do              Bank will minimize the risks.
not follow best practice standards.
Implementation of the urban transport       M          An Action Plan on implementation of the urban
reform in the Greater Tunis is stalled by             transport reform is a condition of effectiveness.
procrastination of decisions on the                   A dated covenant is included in the loan
organization to set up.                               agreement for review of proposed action to
reorganize urban transport in Tunis.
Failure to achieve capacity building in     M         The Above Action Plan will specify means that
urban transport management at local level             will be mobilized for effective launching of the
during the pilot phase for lack of funding            pilots. Progress on implementation of the urban
or/and inadequate staffing of the new                  transport reform is stated as a criteria for rating
entities.                                              of project execution at mid-term review.
Remedial action could then be requested.
- 38 -



Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
Good dialogue between the Bank and GoT has been maintained in recent years, and the
commitment to project objectives shown by the Borrower gives more assurance that ithe above risks are
modest.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None. The severance program could be perceived as one, but it follows a number of similar programs that
were conducted in recent years within and outside Bank projects. A key feature of these programs is that
redundancies are not imposed on staff: those leaving do so on a voluntary basis.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
- Submission of an Action Plan to liberalize interurban passenger bus services and restructure SNTRI.
- Submission of an Action Plan for implementation of the urban transport reform, including the Greater
Tunis area.
- Signing of Protocols for project execution between MOT and participating PTEs (except SNCFT).
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Board Conditions
- Transmission to the Bank of the signed Letter of Railway Policy through the Minister of Transport.
- Approval of the SNT financial restructuring plan by Government, including a commitment to have it
reflected in the FY2001 financial statement.
- Submission of an Action Plan to restructure STAM and open the port of Rades to competition (STAM
could be allowed to continue as a sole operator for a specified duration under a contract that provides for
adequate safeguard against monopolistic behavior).
- Submission of an Action Plan to eliminate the de facto dock labor monopoly and cut excess labor,
including provisions for compensation and severance to be paid to those losing their monopoly and, in some
instances, their jobs.
- Restructuring of the Phase I project and corresponding legal documents.
Disbursement condition
- No funds will be disbursed in relation to railway investments (track and bridge doubling near Gafsa,
signaling and telecommunications equipment) until the environmental assessment and its accompanying
mitigation measures are found acceptable to the Bank.
Non dated covenant
*   On top of having received all necessary administrative and legal clearances to move ahead, projects
not yet fully appraised will have to comply with technical, environmental and economic criteria set
forth in the Loan Agreement before they are declared eligible for Bank financing. This provision
- 39 -



also applies to activities and investments proposed in substitution for those listed in the Project
Description (because the latter are found too slow to mature, are accorded a lower priority, or are
ineligible to receive Bank financing for reasons stated above.)
* The GoT will commit to liberalize interurban transport in accordance with the agreed Action Plan.
* The GoT will commit to implement the urban transport reform in accordance with the agreed
Action Plan.
Dated covenants
*   Not later than July 31, 2001, establishment by the PMU of a financial management system
acceptable to the Bank, including the development of FMPM.
*   Not later than December 31, 2002, the Borrower shall initiate the institutional development and
capacity building leading into the official establishment of the management and regulatory
organization for urban transport in the Greater Tunis provided for in the related Action Plan.
* By December 31, 2002 the Government will submit a draft land transport law to the Chamber of
Representatives.
* By December 31, 2002 contracts will have been signed between public bus companies and private
operators to let the latter handle special services up to market shares of at least 3 percent for SNT
and 5 percent for SRTG.
.   By June 30, 2003 the Borrower will launch a survey, in a format acceptable to the Bank, that will
verify the social and employment status of the staff made redundant by the bus companies and the
phosphate railway unit. The study will prepare an action plan to mitigate negative social impacts if
they are found to be significant.
-   By June 30, 2003 an action plan will be submitted to the Bank containing a set of measures for
promotion of public transport in the Greater Tunis, including a more comprehensive parking
policy; and, by December 31, 2003 the Borrower will start implementing the action plan.
-   By August 31, 2003 the Borrower will submit an implementation report in a format acceptable to
the Bank to serve as a basis of discussion during the mid-term review.
-   By October 31, 2003 the Bank and the Borrower will hold a mid-term review meeting during which
progress achieved under the project will be analyzed, with special reference to capacity building in
urban management and regulation, the liberalization and privatization of interurban transport, and
the port reform (elimination of the dock worker and STAM monopolies). In conclusion of that
meeting, an action plan will be agreed upon to address implementation issues and ensure that the
project objectives are eventually met.
*   By December 31, 2004 SNCFT and its clients in the phosphate industry will agree on a transport
tariff that will cover full railroading costs, including depreciation on a replacement basis and
financing charges bome by SNCFT.
- Financial covenants
*   Audit reports on the general financial statements of the executing agencies and on the project
accounts and Special Account will be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of
each fiscal year.
*   Semi-annual PMRs will be submitted to the Bank.
*   The Government will maintain the urban transport tariff and the compensatiorn of public service
obligations at the level required to ensure compliance with financial covenants stated hereafter.
*   The financial covenants (included in the Supplemental Letter on Performance Indicators and in the
Protocols) with SMLT, SNT, STS and Soretras are comprised of the following:
(i) beginning in 2001, working and operating ratios will be less than 100 percent. From 2002
-40 -



onward, the working and operating ratios will respectively not exceed: for SNT, 81 -percent and
96 percent; for SORETRAS, 82 percent and 98 percent; for STS, 74 percent and 98 percent; for
SMLT, 67 percent and 95 percent; for SNCFT, 86 percent and 96 percent.
(ii) a debt to equity ratio of no more than 45 percent;
(iii) a labor cost to operating revenue ratio of no more than 52 percent;
(iv) a current ratio of no less than 1.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
D 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready fo:r the start of
project implementation.
II 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Readiness for implementation is discussed in Annex 2.
A Project Implementation Plan is being used for the on-going Phase I of the APL. Given the
addition of new executing agencies (SNT and SRTGs), it will need some adaptation; however, this process
is not deemed urgent, nor is it strewn with technical difficulties. Finalization of the draft PIP submitted at
negotiations will take place within the next three months.
The detailed engineering documents for track and bridge doubling in the phosphate network are not
yet ready, and neither is the environmental assessment. Submission to the Bank of related studies for
verification that their conclusions are acceptable is a Disbursement Condition for the related sub-project.
The detailed conditions under which the urban transport reform would be irmplemented in the
Greater Tunis Area have not yet been decided. An interministerial commission with representation from all
interested parties has issued its recommendations in December 2000. Submission of an Action Plan for
implementing the urban transport reform, including the Greater Tunis area, is a Condition of Effectiveness.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
D 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
One component of the project, rail infrastructure upgrading near Gafsa, is in the nature of a sector
investment component, and had to be introduced during appraisal to address issues that arose during
implementation of APL I. Because of the late addition of the railway component to the project, the EA for
this component could not be conducted prior to presenting this operation to the Board. However, measures
have been introduced in this operation to ensure that the EA will be carried out prior to, commencement of
this component, and that the component will be carried out in a manner consistent with the requirements of
the OP. Specifically, the borrower has prepared draft terms of reference for the EA, which have been
reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory. The TORs require the borrower to conduct the EA
prior to commencement of the component, and to design and implement suitable mitigation measures, if any
are needed, based on the findings of the EA. These will be reviewed by the Bank before work begins on the
-41 -



railway component.
Michel A. Loir                    George Tharakan                   ChrinDelvoe
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                    Country Manager
- 42 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
TUNISIA: TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote increased flexibility  - 2006 spending by low  Future CAS reviews        Political stability and low
in the labor market and   income families on urban    Portfolio management reviews incidence of drought allowing
improve targeting of       transport:                and continuing dialogue with  Tunisia to meet its objective of
assistance programs (better  *  <12% of their budget   Government on economic and faster economic growth
coverage of mobility needs by  - Number of trips/day/people  social issues
reliable, sustainable and  living in the greater Tunis:   Public expenditures review
affordable public transport  *  >1.5 in 2006
systems will work that way)
Support efforts in export  - Railway transport of rock    National accounts and local   A dynamic world market
promotion (removal of      phosphate:                 trade statistics           demand for phosphate rock
railroad bottlenecks to      *  about 8 MT in 1999                               and fertilizers
expansion of the phosphate   *  about 12 MT in 2010
industry)
Program Purpose:           End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:         (from Purpose to Goal)
- Increase the efficiency and   Value added/transport sector  MOT's progress report  Good and timely progress in
quality of transport services.  employee:             Bank supervision report   implementing macroeconomic
- (to be specified)  in 2000  Mid-term reviews        reforms
- (to be specified)  in 2005  ICR
- Increase private sector  Private share of transport  Same                      Achievement of a strong
participation to transport  sector investment:                                   financial sector.
service delivery and       - 25% in 2000                                          Keeping competition for and
investments.               - 35% in 2005                                        in the transport market
healthy
- Reduce the burden of     Transport subsidies at about  Same                    Real autonomy is granted to
transport subsidies.       0.2% of GDP by 2005                                   public transport enterprises.
- Make railways financially   SNCFT breaking even from    Same                   Sustaining progress through
viable.                    2005 onward                                          increased private participation
to maintenance of rolling
stock
Project Development       Outcome / Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                 Indicators:
-43 -



- Good management of urban  - Public transport share of    MOT's progress report  Sustaining -the capacity
transport within the broader  total motorized trips:   Supervision report       building achieved by the
urban development           *  50% in 2005 in Tunis    Mid term reviews         project at decentralized level.
framework.                       (same as in 2000)     Ad-hoc user surveys (for    The parking policy fosters use
SMLT and SNT in 2005)     of public transport.
ICR
- Good coordination of all  - Share of bus-rail transfers                         Sound management of
transport modes to maximize  in combined traffic:                               public transport companies
their cost effectiveness.   *  >10% in 2005 in Tunis
(about 3% in 2000)
- Occupancy rates of buses at
peak-hour in Tunis:
*   <8/m in 2005
>I 0/m2in 2000
- Maintain SMLT services at  - In 2005, SMLT has:
the level required by demand    *  20% of public transport
growth.                         (base value: 18%)
* a satisfaction rate 65%
(base value 60%)
- Make urban transport    - GOT subsidies in % total    Same                    Commitment by central and
sustainable by compensating  operating costs in 2005:                          local governments to budget
the full costs of PSOs and  *  <30% -SNT (base 35%)                             needed funds.
diversifying their sources of    *  <30% -SRTG base 40%
financing.
- Develop the private sector   - private sector share of  Same                  Good performance of private
share of urban public transport bus-km in 2005:                                 transporters demonstrating
through subcontracting of   *  >5 % - SNT (base 0)                              their ability to work at lower
special services by public bus    *  >10 % - SRTGs (base 0)                     costs than their public clients
companies.
- Enhance the intemational   Railway traffic in the  Same                       - The local phosphate industry
competitiveness of the    phosphate network in 2005:                            keeps abreast of technical
phosphate industry        - rock phosphate:                                     progress in its field.
*  10 MT (base 8 MT)                               - SNCFT sustains a high level
- fertilizer/sulphur:                                of performance
* l.3 MT (base I MT)
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Adequately staffed public bus - 907 SNT and SRTG staff   - Progress report      Retraining, credit facilities
companies. Social issues  released by 12/31/2001'.   - Ad-hoc survey of how the   and social support minimizes
arising from redundancies are - Passengers/agent in 2005:   redundant staff is doing  risks of lasting unemployment
minimal.                           (in '000)         financially: 2004          for the younger redundant
*  SNT: 80 (base 73)                               staff
* STS: 76 (base 60)
* Soretras: 60 (base 46)
- 44 -



- Safe parking and systematic  Fleet availability rates 2005    -MOT's progress report  - Urban dwellers respond to
preventive maintenance in   SNT: 91% (base 89%)       - Annual reports to their  the incentives framework set
new depots allow for raising  -STS: 88% (base 79%)   Board prepared by the public  to prioritize public over
productivity of the bus fleet  -Soretras: 93% (base 90%)    companies           individual motorized transport
and a longer life cycle of  Km traveled/bus/year 2005    - Supervision reports   - Labor relations within bus
buses. Well equipped      (in '000 km)                - Mid-term review          companies are conducive to a
workshops and depots boost    *  SNT: 65 (base 60)    - Audit reports            higher performance, especially
productivity of the bus fleet  *  STS: 76 (base 68)   - ICR                      in the workshops.
maintenance.                 *  Soretras: 60 (base 50)
- SMLT maximizes the use of Km traveled/SMLT trainsets
its fleet and minimizes fraud  in 2004
by those riding trains without   *  >50,000 (base 45,000)
tickets.                   Estimated revenue evasion in
2004
* <10% (base 15%)
- The new entities in charge of The 4 main urban transport   Same                - Good coordination of central
urban transport management  authorities (Tunis, Sousse,                          and local services involved in
and regulation have good   Sfax, Beja) having budgets in                         urban transport planning.
in-house capabilities and are  2004 covering:                                    Successful outcome of pilots
fully funded, including the  *  100% of their operating                         for decentralized management
compensation to be paid to     expenses;                                         and r egulation of urban
public transport enterprises.  * > 10% of compensations                          transport allowing
paid to the enterprises                          mainstreaming nationwide of
the urban transport reform.
- Surpluses generated by urban
transport are tapped to reduce
the compensation paid out of
the national budget.
- Transporters are defrayed of SNT and SRTGs generate an                         A cost based tariff policy is
PSOs fully and timely: the    operating surplus >5% in                           maintained; the compensation
public bus companies generate 2004                                               are paid timely.
an operating surplus        (base: SNT - minus 16%-
: SRTG - minus 5%-)
Subcontracting of their special Subcontracting of services in  Same              A convincing demonstration
services by the public bus  2003 - share of passenger-km:                        that private transport is less
companies has started.       *  >3% for SNT (base 0)                             costly will lead to broaden the
*  >5% for SRTG (base 0)                            scope of subcontracting.
Heavier train circulate on the  Payload tracted per train of   Same              From 2005 onward, SNCFT is
phosphate network; disruption rock phosphate:                                    able to buy higher capacity
caused to traffic by traction  * >1,500 tons in 2005                             cars and more powerful
breakdowns and sand          *  (base value: 1,200 tons)                         locomotives
accumulation is minimized.
Excess staff in the phosphate  - Less than 1,400 staff work   Same               Retraining, credit facilities
railway network have been    for phosphate transport in                          and social support minimizes
eliminated.                2005 (base value: 1,750).                             risk of lasting unemployment
for the younger redundant
staff
- 45 -



The cost of rock phosphate    - Cost/ton/km:         Same                       A good partnership is
transport has been lowered  *  DTO.018 in 2005                                  maintained between SNCFT
and is fully covered by the  *  (base value: DTO.024)                           and its phosphate clients
railway tariff.
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
- Severance payments to   - US$ 10 million           - MOT's progress reports   - Good social climate within
eliminate redundancies at     (Bank share: 100%)      - Bank supervision reports   the bus enterprises.
SNT and SRTGs                                        - ICR
- Severance payments to   - US$4.3 million                                      - Local funding secured
eliminate redundant railway   (Bank share: 0%)
staff in the phosphate network
- Construction/equipment of  - US$16.1 million       - MOT's progress reports   Good procurement
bus depots and workshops in   (Bank share: 68%)      - Bank supervision reports    Good performance by selected
major cities                                         - Mid-term review report   consultants and contractors
Good Bank supervision
- Development of systems to   - US$10.2 million      - MOT's progress reports    Same as above, plus:
increase SMLT operational     (Bank share:41%)       - Consultant studies      funds needed to finance
performance; upgrading the                           - Bank supervision reports   investments are mobilized
workshops to cater to major                          - Mid-term review report    timely
overhauls soon needed by its                         - ICR
aging trainsets.
- Infrastructure upgrading in  - US$4.6 million      - MOT's progress reports    Same as above, plus:
the railway phosphate network    (Bank share: 70%)   - Consultant studies       funds needed to finance
- Bank supervision reports   investments are mobilized
- Installation of systems for   - US$ 7.1 million    - Mid-term review report    timely
optimal deployment of the     (Bank share: 90%)      - ICR
phosphate carrying capacity
- Technical assistance to  - US$0.7 million          - MOT's progress reports   Good procurement
urban bus companies           (Bank share: 82%)      - Consultant studies       Good consulting services
- Bank supervision reports    Good Bank supervision
- Mid-term review report
- Technical assistance to  - US$2.3 million          - ICR                      Timely selection of pilot
urban transport management    (Bank share: 30%)                                 projects
and regulatory entities; urban                                                  Timely decisions on the urban
transport and traffic studies.                                                 transport organization to set
up in the Greater Tunis
- 46 -



-Technical assistance to the    - US$1.3 million      - MOT's progress reports   Good procurement
railway phosphate unit        (Bank share: 77%)       - Consultant studies       Good consulting services
- Bank supervision reports    Good Bank supervision
- Mid-term review report
- ICR
-47-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
TUNISIA: TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Introduction
1.     Phase I of the APL included investment in ports, railways, and transport sector management. Phase 2
will include investments in urban transport, as well as additional investments in railways and capacity building in
transport sector management, with a focus in the latter case on urban public transport. Total project costs are
estimated at US$56.6 million, exclusive of front-end fees. The three components of phase 2 of the APL vary in
size and content:
(a) Investment program to improve public bus service through better maintenance and traffic
management to improve Tunis light rail system operations, and to finance severance payments to
about 900 redundant employees of public bus companies (Cost US$36.2 million).
(b)  Investment program to modemize and restructure the phosphate transport network of SNCFT,
including staff downsizing (Cost US$17.4 million).
(c)   Technical assistance, training, studies, and pilot projects to support the investment program of the
public bus companies. Implementation of the agreed transport reform is of course a key project
objective and the assistance needed will be provided (Cost US$3 million).
Implementation of a new urban transport policy framework
2.     A recent Council of Ministers (13 April 2000) has established the following guidelines for the urban and
regional transport reforms in Tunisia:
(a)   The government has approved the financial restructuring of regional bus companies (SRTG), with a
reduction of accumulated debts of DT66.3 million and the layoff of 550 employees. It will approve
in the near future the financial restructuring of the Tunis bus and light rail companies, as well as
the layoff of some 366 employees of SNT.
(b)  Giving a heightened priority to public transport and raising the quality of its bus services will be
actively pursued by the Government to curb growth of individual car transport.
(c)   The government has adopted the principle of full compensation to public bus companies for
loss-making school transport services; the compensation for services provided free of charge to
various organizations will be negotiated between them and the transporters, and stipulated in each
contractual arrangement.
(d) Funding of urban transport will be streamlined with Government responsibilities limited to
subsidization of studies and investments in the construction of bus depots, transfer and inter-modal
stations.
(e)   Urban and regional public transport will be divided in two categories: (i) regular and network based
services in densely populated areas on coordinated bus routes; and (ii) on-demand services to be
offered by licensed companies.
(0)   When there are more than one public operator in a given area, they will be merged to achieve good
coordination of their services.
(g)  Public bus companies will be entitled to subcontract to private providers the services mostly used by
students and school children.
- 48 -



(h)  The Government will be responsible for definition of the legal and regulatory framework for
provision of urban and suburban bus services, including funding and pricing mechanisms.
Management and detailed regulation of these services will be entrusted to the "Conseil Rigional' at
Governorate level with the exception of the Greater Tunis area where the set up and modus
operandi of a managing and regulatory Authority will be further studied prior to establishing it.
(i)   Regional transport master plans will be an integral part of urban development master plans.
Furthermore, the road development plans within urban areas and the regional public transport
plans will be binding statutory tools in implementing the regional transport master plans.
(j)   The existing land transport law and regulations will be amended to reflect these modifications.
3.     These guidelines adequately address major issues of management, coordination and funding of urban
transport services that had been outlined by the project preparation study dealing with the subject matter. They do
come short on two counts.
(a)   The decision to set up a management and regulatory authority in the Greater lunis area is kept on
hold pending the outcome of studies addressing the Government concerns of not repeating the
mistake done years ago when a structure straddling several local jurisdictions was created but
eventually stripped of any real management responsibility by them. Some caution is indeed
warranted to avoid duplication of functions in the complex institutional environment of the capital
city that would undermine the structure's sustainability. The planned merging of bus and light rail
services will certainly alleviate transport coordination issues pending the establishment of a
properly designed authority. The problem here is essentially one of deferred decision toward
meeting an objective that is not in question. The good Bank dialogue with the Goverunent on
urban transport issues will help minimize delays. The project conditionality is another safeguard.
(b)  The scope of private participation in urban public transport is widened to subcontracting of special
services. Building on the small scale experience of private bus concessions in Tunis had been
recommended by the Bank but the Government finally decided against the idea and for the time
being. Given the complexity of managing lines or block of lines given in concession to several
operators, the GoT's cautious approach is not totally out of line and starting with capacity building
at urban transport management level is an acceptable way to go.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$36.20 million
Urban Transport Modernization and Restructurine
4.     A visit to existing bus depots and bus maintenance facilities in major public transit companies in Tunis,
Sfax and Sousse, as well as in other cities, has shown that a large number of problems are constraining the
efficiency of bus fleet maintenance operations, vehicle availability and schedule adherence, among which: (i) bus
depots are not large enough to accommodate existing vehicle fleet in safe and reliable conditions - in Sfax, for
instance, a large number of buses spend the night in bus transfer stations in the center of the city, without any
surveillance, for lack of adequate off-street garage and parking facilities; (ii) workshops do not have required space
nor proper tools to ensure effective preventive maintenance operations - in most depots, maneuvering space is so
tight that buses suffer frequent collisions, minor but nevertheless costly in terms of repairs and that a larger space
could have averted; (iii) maintenance personnel have to work in outdated workshops - pits are narrow, dirty, and
they are not ventilated; the wheel paths on both sides of the pits are for the most part uneven, creating extra stress
in the joints of articulated buses in particular. The existing pits should be replaced by hydraulic lifts that would
have the added advantage of ensuring a unifonn support to articulated buses; and (iv) evacuation of used washing
water, oils and greases is inadequate in a few cases (e.g. Sousse), and the Ministry of Environment has requested
many times that the incriminated public bus companies improve the wastes collection and evacuation procedures,
-49 -



without much success in the present conditions. This component will finance improvements to infrastructure
through the construction of bus depots in Tunis, Sfax and Sousse, as well as severance payments to redundant staff.
5.     This component will also finance improvements to the Tunis light rail transit (LRT) operation through the
acquisition of a Centralized Traffic Control system and a modem fare collection system. A recent study (Inrets and
SMLT: "Evaluation a posteriori du metro leger de Tunis". April 2000) has shown that the LRT has been an
important factor in improving public transport services in the Tunis metropolitan area. The costs have been kept
relatively low by adopting surface routes coordinated with a new traffic plan designed to minimize conflicts
between LRT vehicles and surface traffic. The LRT system is highly centralized, with a central trunk linking all
four lines: this section is presently saturated with more than 10,000 pphpd (persons per hour per direction) during
peak hours. A modal shift from the private automobile to the LRT had been observed in the early '90s, soon after
the introduction of most of the system, but this is no longer the case. However, the LRT has helped to revert the
decline of the center of the city. The main reasons for the success of the project were stated as follows: (i) a clear
and dynamic political will to improve public transport services; (ii) a closely integrated traffic plan and LRT
network: the concept of traffic sectors has been successfully tested, to eliminate through traffic except on
designated major arterials; and (iii) an extensive network directly serving a large percentage of the population and
creating numerous transfer opportunities. In spite of its success, the Tunis LRT is facing major problems: (i) its
capacity is limited, as opposed to the much costlier subway; (ii) the radial orientation of all its lines does not
support tangential trips from one suburb to another, where the growth is the most spectacular; and (iii) the lack of
proper integration with bus services can probably be explained in large part by the saturation of the central trunk
line and the consequent need for buses to run in parallel to LRT in the city center.
A.     Infrastructure Improvement in Public Bus Companies
Bus Depot in Tunis for SNT (US$6. 1million)
6.     SNT, the public bus operator in Tunis, has proposed to build a bus depot on a 10-hectare site called El
Bokhri in an industrialized zone north of the city center. Six hectares would be developed in the first phase,
offering sufficient space to accommodate 160 buses overnight. This would ease the congestion in existing depots
and help to increase the ratio of planned-to-unexpected maintenance from 50/50 now to 70/30, which is the
standard that SNT is trying to achieve.
7.     The required parcel of land has recently been ceded to SNT by its current owner, the Ministry of
Agriculture. There is no significant environmental or social problems in using this site as a bus depot. The cost of
the project has been estimated by SNT and converted in million US dollars, including physical and price
contingencies, as follows:
Land acquisition                           US$ 0.9 million
Building                                       3.8   "
Maintenance Equipment and Tools                1.1
Design and Supervision                         0.3
Total                                          6.1
8.       Preliminary and final plans and specifications will have to be prepared and approved by the National
Contracts Office. It is reasonable to expect that construction could begin in July 2001 and that the depot could
become operational in June 2003.
Bus Depot in Sfax for Soretras (US$4.4 million)
9.     The public bus operator in Sfax (Soretras) has prepared plans for the construction of a bus depot on a 7.3
hectare site that belongs to the Port of Sfax and was recently leased to Soretras for 99 years. Plans call for the
improvement of approximately 5.5 hectares to accommodate 200 buses. A steel canopy to protect buses is made
necessary due to the highly saline content in the atmosphere which accelerates rust formation on buses and other
- 50 -



vehicles as well. The project includes the following components:
Administrative building (150 m2)
Workshops (1150 m2)
Stock room (400 m2)
2 Bus washing stations
Paved parking area for 200 buses (60,000 m2)
Steel frame to protect 200 buses (17,000 m2)
10.    Construction could begin soon after the loan is made effective, and the depot could become operational 18
months later, i.e. by mid-2002. The cost of the project, including physical and price contingencies, was estimated
by Soretras as follows:
Building                                 US$ 4.0 million
Maintenance Equipment and Tools              0.1
Design and Supervision                       0.3
Total                                        4.4
Bus Depots in Sousse for STS (US$4.9 million)
11.    The public bus operator in Sousse is serving a large area with some bus lines extending for over 30 km
(one-way). STS presently makes use of five bus depots in the major cities of the three Goveniorates in which it
operates (i.e. Sousse, Mahdia and Monastir). In Sousse, the main workshops and the garage are decrepit and
insufficient to accommodate the needs of the bus fleet. On the other hand, STS occupies only about half of the land
its owns there, and they envisage adding to and modernizing their existing facilities without having to acquire a
new piece of land. A complete rehabilitation of the existing workshops has been made necessary by the request by
the Ministry of Environment to upgrade the collection and evacuation systems of used oils and greases: following
infiltration of used oils in the town sewage system, STS has sealed all collectors, but they now have to collect
manually the sludge that accumulates at the bottom of the pits. Smaller depots and workshops in Mahdia,
Monastir, Enfida and Moknine experience the same problems, and they have to be rehabilitated.
12.    In Sousse, the project would finance the construction of a paved parking area for 150 buses, a new
workshop dedicated to preventive maintenance with an area of 8,700 m2, and the rehabilitation of existing
workshops with an area of 2,770 m2. The cost of the project, including physical and price contingencies, was
estimated by the operator as follows:
Building (new and rehabilitated)         US$ 3.6 million
Maintenance Equipment and Tools              1.0
Design and Supervision                       0.3
Total                                        4.9
13.    This estimate is based on a concept for the rehabilitation of the Sousse workshops that was defined some
10 years ago: it would have to be updated, and STS plans to invite consultants to submit proposals for preliminary
studies in the fall of 2000. On that basis, final plans could be delivered by July 2001, a contract signed in January
2002, and the project completed in April 2003. The same schedule could apply at the other locations as well.
Bus Depots in various Cities for SRTGs (US$0.6 million)
14.    The regional bus companies (SRTG) that operate in major cities outside of Tunis (they,iechnically include
Sfax and Sousse, whose projects have been evaluated separately) have established their investment needs during
the preparation of their five-year performance contracts that were signed with the Ministry of Transport for the
period of the Ninth Plan (1997 - 2001). Investments are relatively small, ranging from DT810,000 in Nabeul to
DT15,000 in Beja. It is envisaged that a fund be created and managed by the Ministry of Transport to support
investments in the various SRTGs (with the exception of Sfax and Sousse). A consultant could be selected
- 51 -



following a local competitive bidding process to prepare tender documents of economically justified projects in the
following categories:
- Rehabilitation of workshops and garages
- Acquisition of maintenance equipment
- Acquisition of computers and software
15.    Each year over a period of four years, 25 percent of the total amount of the fund would be made available
to the SRTGs, and an evaluation of the investments would be made at the end of the year. The consultant would
prepare an analytical framework for selection of projects to be financed in a given year, taking into account, inter
alia, the planned increases in productivity and the expected decreases in financial support from the Government.
Total cost of the four-year program, including physical and price contingencies and to be financed by the Bank,
was estimated as follows:
Buildings                                US$ 0.5 million
Maintenance Equipment and Tools              0.1
Total                                        0.6
B.     Improvement to Tunis Light Rail Operations
16.    The first light-rail line, from Place Barcelone to Ben Arous, was put in service in 1985. Three other lines
(Place Barcelone - Ariana; Republique - Intilaka; and Republique - Den Den) were put in service between 1989
and 1990. The central corridor between Place Barcelone and Republique (less than 1-km long) where three of the
lines converge, is presently saturated. The Ministry of Transport has recommended the construction of a new line
in that corridor to increase its capacity. In addition, the need to improve the operations of the current system and
upgrade its fare collection procedures has been recognized. SMLT has identified three major improvements for
more efficient operations within the existing track configuration: (i) a centralized traffic control system (CTC); (ii)
new fare collection system; and (iii) improved maintenance procedures.
Centralized Traffic Control System (US$4.6 million)
17.    SMLT has launched a study to evaluate the needs of upgrading the operations of its fleet through the
implementation of a computer-assisted centralized traffic control system (CTC). Such a system would: (i) improve
service reliability on existing lines without a need for major physical investments in capacity enhancement; (ii) test
new service combinations; (iii) optimize use of rolling stock and increase use of infrastructure; and (iv) improve
human resources management, which would on the one hand upgrade the fleet maintenance operations and
enhance the quality of services and the public image of the firm on the other hand.
18.    The CTC system would include the fo]lowing components: (i) computer hardware and software needed to
ensure positive control of any trainset in real time; (ii) a communication network linking each trainset with the
CTC console; (iii) on-board communication equipment; (iv) information transmission protocol; and (v) public
address system.
19.    SMLT has estimated the cost of installing a CTC system, including physical and price contingencies, as
follows:
System Design and Studies                US$ 0.4 million
Equipment Supply and Installation            6.8  "
Civil Works and Supervision                  0.4  "
Total                                        7.6
20.    The launching of this component is contingent upon the results of a detailed study of needs and the way to
meet them. The findings will be used to prepare tender documents to be sent to selected equipment suppliers that
would have demonstrated experience in design, fabrication, installation and operation of similar systems. The
selected manufacturer would be responsible for training and technical assistance to SMLT during the installation
phase, and for the operation of the system for two years afterwards, including further training and technical
- 52 -



assistance. The recommendations of the study should be approved by SMLT during the year 2001. A
manufacturer could then be selected by mid-2002, and full-scale CTC operation in place by July 2004. The loan
would only finance the system design and study component.
Fare Collection System (US$4.3 million)
21.    The existing fare collection system in the SMLT network is not efficient, mainly due to the following
reasons: (i) the physical layout of the stations favors fare evasion; (ii) fare collection costs are very high, with one
employee out of four being engaged in collecting fares; (iii) the lack of coordination for fare collection between
SMLT and SNT is not conducive to a rational combined use of these transport modes; (iv) SMLT clients do not
make use of available fare discounts; and (v) the system is not designed to accommodate changes in the needs of its
users, nor a shift in its clientele makeup.
22.    SMLT will finance out of its own budget a US$100,000 study to evaluate its needs in terms of fare
collection. This study should define the type of system to deploy and it should produce tender documents. The
selected manufacturer would help in training personnel and in supervising the fare collection operation for a period
of two years after its installation. The study recommendations are expected by November 2000, the selection of a
manufacturer by October 2001 and the installation of the system by December 2002. SMLT has estimated the costs
as follows, including physical and price contingencies:
Constraints, needs Analysis and training  US$ 0.1 million
Equipment Supply and Installation            4.0
Total                                        4.3
Maintenance of SMLT's Trainsets (US$1.3 million)
23.    The oldest trainsets in operation (a trainset consists of two articulated tramways coupled together) are now
15-years old, and they will need major overhaul within the next few years, which could cause service disturbances
and bottlenecks in the existing workshops. To alleviate these problems, SMLT intends to use the recently
completed Ariana workshop for heavy maintenance and repairs. This workshop has a capacity of 15 trainsets only,
over a total of 133 in the network. However SMLT can benefit from a slack in its maintenance schedule, since 14
trainsets were delivered in 1997 but will only be put in service at the end of 2003 on the future El Mourouj line. In
the interim, these trainsets could make up for those held idle pending repairs.
24.    SMLT wants to improve its existing equipment and works methods in its workshops. It will be important
to analyze existing maintenance procedures, define a program to improve maintenance operations, and acquire
needed equipment and computer software.  The study could be launched during the year 2001, and investments
made in 2002. This component would be financed in part by SMLT and in part by the government.
Constraints and Needs Analysis           US$ 0.4 million
Equipment Supply and Installation            0.8
Total                                        2.1
C.     Severance Payments to Bus Transit Companies Employees (US$10 million)
25.    This component would improve the productivity of public bus companies and consolidate their financial
viability. Over the years, these companies, including SNT, Soretras and other SRTGs, have been obligated to pay
salaries to an increasing number of permanent employees whose qualifications no longer correspond to their needs.
The current situation is characterized by excess labor overall, yet labor shortages are experienced in critical areas
(e.g. drivers) and they cannot be eliminated as long as the overall excess labor issue is not solved. All public bus
companies have already established lists of staff to be made redundant. The Bank has conducted a detailed
socio-economic impact study of this severance program in order to ascertain the risks of permanent unemployment
for those made redundant and ways to mitigate such risks (e.g. retraining programs). The project would finance
severance packages in amounts stated hereafter:
- 53 -



SNT (Tunis)                                  366 employees
Soretras (Sfax)                              117
STS (Sousse)                                 155
Other SRTG                                   269
Total                                        907 employees
26.    At an average cost per employee of DT15,000, the cost of this component, including physical and price
contingencies, was estimated at the equivalent of US$10 million. Disbursements could occur as soon as the loan is
made effective, through retroactive financing.
Project Component 2 - US$17.40 million
Modernization and streamlinin2 of railway transport of phosphate rock
27.    In Phase I of the APL, there was a large component - close to 60 percent of the project costs - dedicated
to the modernization and restructuring of SNCFT. The project was to allow SNCFT to become a fully-commercial
enterprise, through investments designed to catch up with deferred modernization on the main Tunis - Sousse -
Sfax corridor, to support institutional development, and to finance severance of excess staff and close
uneconomical passenger services. Phase I also included a covenant to the effect of establishing a pilot phosphate
business unit within SNCFT. This unit is being put in place. On the other hand, after long and unsuccessful
negotiations between SNCFT and the phosphate industry (CPG) on the establishment of a cost-based tariff, the
government arbitrated in favor of the latter with the consequence that phosphate tariff remains based on
depreciation at historic costs. At least, a price escalation clause tied to cost inflation has been introduced which
will remedy the tariff freeze imposed on SNCFT in late years. The phosphate industry claims that it should not
pay for current service inefficiencies.
28.    Under Phase 2, the railway component will support implementation by SNCFT of a medium term
program to streamline and modernize railway transport needed by the phosphate industry. This program,
developed with the assistance of a consultant financed under Phase I of the APL, is designed to: (a) increase the
railway transport capacity to accommodate larger transport needs induced by development of mining and
phosphate rock processing and (b) reduce transport costs. The program is one of key actions that will allow
SNCFT to break even by 2005. It comprises a whole range of coherent measures related to reorganization of
SNCFT structures involved in phosphate rock transport as well as transport of products for the phosphate
processing industry, improvement of the technical organization of such transport, infrastructure development in the
Southern Phosphate railway network (Sfax-Metlaoui, Sfax-Gabes and Gafsa-Gabes lines plus the feeder lines to
mining centers) to increase capacity and lower operating costs, enhanced maintenance of the rolling stock, staff
reduction and introduction of new contractual relations between SNCFT and companies in the phosphate industry
(Compagnie des Phosphates de Gafsa and Groupe Chimique Tunisien).
29.    The reorganization of SNCFT's structures involved in the railway transport of phosphate industry products
is a key condition of success for this operation. The new organization relies on the establishment of a the business
unit "Transports Phosphatiers" to be responsible for management of all technical and human resources needed by
the service. The business unit was partly set up in mid 2000; completion of this institutional development will
include a delegation by the business unit "Reseauferroviaire" of its responsibilities on infrastructure management
(namely track maintenance and equipment for signaling and telecommunications) and on control of train
circulation (namely, the railway station security and traffic regulation functions) on the Southern network to the
phosphate business unit. This unit will also be entrusted with operation of the railcar workshop in Gafsa as it is its
sole user. The project will finance consulting services for streamlining of procedures applied by the phosphate
business unit.
30.    The railway infrastructure improvements will be financed under the project. They mainly consist in (a)
doubling the Gafsa-Aguila track section (4.2 km-long) including doubling of the bridge over the Oued Bayech; (b)
- 54 -



deployment of a centralized traffic control system (CTC) on the Sfax-Metlaoui, Sfax-Gabes and F`ouni-EI Hamada
itineraries; and (c) setting up of a computer-assisted radio block on the Gafsa-Gabes itinerary and on feeder lines to
mining centers. Corresponding investments include the following operations.
*   Doubling of the track stretch between Gafsa and Aguila (US$1.6 million): it includes earthworks, procurement
of rail, ballast and switching equipment, related installation works and welding.
*   Bridge over the Oued Bayech (US$3.1 million): construction of a second bridge (about 280 m-long) and
strengthening of the existing bridge's apron.
*   Signaling equipment (US$4.2 million): installation of telecommunication systems for remote control of
signaling devices located in stations along the Sfax-Metlaoui, Sfax-Gabes and Founi-EI Hamada lines from the
Central Command Post in Sfax (CTC system), upgrading of signalling centers in Gafsa and El Hamada (to
account for doubling of the Gafsa-Aguila stretch). In addition, a temporary signaling system will be set up in
the Gafsa and Aguila stations during construction of the double track.
*   Telecommunication equipment (US$2.9 million): it covers installation of a train-ground radio communication
system on the Gafsa-Gabes itinerary and upgrading of the telecommunication channel linking Sfax to
Metlaoui, Sfax to Gabes and Founi to El Hamada (in relation to deployment of the CTC systern).
*   Studies and consulting services (US$1.4 million): implementation of the program will require: (a) preliminary
and detailed engineering studies, including preparation of bidding documents and environmental assessments
related to doubling of the Gafsa-Aguila line and of the bridge over the Oued Bayech (US$0.1 million); (b)
supply of software for the computer-assisted radio block and assistance to its installation, studies and control of
works related to development of the train-ground radio comnmunication system and of the CTC system (US$0.8
million); and: (c) consulting services to support development of the business unit (US$0.45 million). A staff
downsizing program will be implemented for the business unit "Transports Phosphatiers" (US'$4.3 million): it
is estimated that about 400 staff will be made redundant and a severance program will be set: up accordingly.
Its implementation will span four years at a pace dictated by implementation of the investment program (part
of the redundancies are linked to the substitution of CTC for the current local operation of station signaling
systems). The staff severance program will be financed by the Fonds de Restructuration des Entreprises
Publiques (FREP).
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.00 million
Sector Management
A.     Investment Costs
31.    Phase I of the project tackled the major issues facing the Ministry of Transport, namely: (i) transport
sector managers must adapt to on-going policy changes; (ii) liberalization and privatization will decentralize
decision-making to individual operators; and (iii) the Ministry of Transport will see its regulatory and monitoring
functions greatly enhanced, whereas the ones dealing with central planning and overseeing of public enterprises
will be waning. Phase 2 was designed to deepen this developmental action in what relates more specifically to
modemization and restructuring of the urban transport sector.
32.    In Phase 1, the project has already begun supporting the building of needed capacity within the Ministry
of Transport, developing quality and timeliness of transport statistics, and transport master pjaining, including
staff training. Phase 2 will carry on with this experience and will support technical assistance-and training to the
staff of the regional bus companies, including SNT in Tunis, Soretras in Sfax and STS in Sousse.
Technical Assistance and Training Program (US$0.7 million)
- 55 -



33.    This program focuses on increasing the efficiency of operations and management of the urban bus
companies. It includes the following major elements: (i) technical assistance to develop new management
techniques and methods; (ii) training of senior personnel in planning of services, fleet management, analytical
accounting, as well as human resources management, through intensive courses, seminars, and discussions with
experts; and (iii) acquisition of computer hardware and software tailored to capacity building requirements under
the program.
34.    In particular, it is foreseen that govemorate bus companies will have to commission studies to introduce
new management methods and procedures, prepare documents for concessions and subcontracts and, more
generally, to nehance their commercial function and improve levels of service. The results and recommendations
of one study in a given Governorate would be made available to all other bus companies. Obviously not all results
can be transposed between different cities, particularly the studies related with itinerary planning (dependent in
fact on the configuration of the street network) and with scheduling of services (dependent on the demand for
services).  However the methodology would have been tested and validated, allowing for easy replication
elsewhere. The project would finance such studies as:
Preventive maintenance and materials management
Scheduling, run cutting and rostering
Marketing
Itinerary trip planning.
35.    A budget of US$0.7 million, including physical and price contingencies, would be financed by the Bank.
The program will be spread out over four years. It could begin as soon as the loan is effective. The details are as
follows:
Technical Assistance                  US$ 0.3 million
Training Programs                         0.3
Computer Hardware and Software            0.1
Total                                        0.8
Consulting Services (US$1.2 million)
36.    This component will cover (a) studies and consulting services for in depth analysis of urban transport
management, regulatory and financing issues, and to propose solutions to problems faced in implementing the
reform targeted under the project; and: (b) studies completing or following up on the feasibility studies for
development of mass-transit systems in the Greater Tunis area which is to be financed under Phase I of the APL.
These studies and consulting services will be financed by Government.
Advisory services to the new urban transport boards (US$. I million)
37.    Technical assistance will be provided under the project to the new urban transport management and
regulatory entities. It will focus on forecasting and organizing public transport services; on identifying local
funding sourcesand mechanisms to partly substitute for subsidies paid out of the national budget; on preparing or
updating transport master plans and traffic plans that pilot gouvemorates will need to formulate their urban
transport policy. The project will also finance studies and expert missions to facilitate local implementation of the
urban transport reform.
38.    These services will be financed by the Bank loan.
- 56 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
TUNISIA: TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Tunisia
Transport Sector - Phase 2 (12 feb 2001) Output Costs in Dollars
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
(Million Tunisian Dinar)                  (Million US Dollars)
%   % Total                              %     % Total
Foreign  Base                            Foreign   Base
Local Foreign Total ExchangeCosts        Local Foreign Total Exchange Costs
I. Investment Costs
Land Acquisition /a      1.11       -   1.11       -      2       0.82       -   0.82       -         2
Civil Works              9.12   10.45  19.57     53      28       6.76    7.74   14.50     53        28
Equipment                4.20   19.12  23.32     82      33       3.11   14.16   17.27     82        33
Consulting Services      1.36   6.20   7.56      82      11       1.01    4.59    5.60     82        11
Severance Payments      18.91       -  18.91       -     27      14.01       -  14.01       -        27
Total Investment Costs     34.70  35.77  70.47      51    100       25.70  26.49   52.20     51        100
ll. Recurrent Costs
Total BASELINE COSTS   34.70  35.77  70.47           51    100      25.70  26.49  52.20       51       100
Physical Contingencies   1.21    1.91    3.13    61       4       0.90    1.42   2.32      61         4
Price Contingencies      2.45   3.21    5.67     57       8       0.80    1.30   2.10      62         4
Total PROJECT COSTS    38.37  40.89  79.26          52    112       27.40  29.21   56.61      52       108
Commitment Charges          -   2.55   2.55    100        4           -   1.82    1.82    100         3
Total Costs to be Financec 38.37  4344   81.81       53    116      2740   31 03   5843       53       112
\a The Bank does not finance land acquisition
- 57 -



Tunisia
Transport Sector - Phase 2 (12 feb 2001) Output Costs in Dollars
Table 1. Urban Transport Modemization and Restructuring
Detailed Costs
(Million US Dollars)
Totals Including Contingencies
2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    Total
Investment Costs
A. Infrastructure Improvement
1. Bus Depot in Tunis - El Bokhri
Land Acquisition                                               0.9        -        -        -        -        -     0
Construction /a                                                1.5      2.3        -        -        -        -    3.7,
Equipment for Bus Depot                                          -      1.1        -        -        -        -      1.
Design and Supervision                                         0.1      0.2        -        -        -        -    0.2
Subtotal Bus Depot in Tunis - El Bokhri                          2.5      3.6        -        -        -        -    6.0.
2. Bus Depot in Sfax (port de peche)
Construction of Bus Depot /b                                     -      1.6      2.4        -        -        -     4.
Equipment for Bus Depot                                          -        -      0.1        -        -        -      0.
Design and Supervision                                         0.1      0.2        -        -        -        -      0.
Subtotal Bus Depot in Sfax (port de peche)                       0.1      1.7      2.6        -        -        -      4.
3. Bus Depots in Sousse
Construction of a Bus Depot in Sousse /c                         -      1.1      2.6        -        -        -      3.
Equipment for Bus Depots                                         -        -      1.0        -        -        -      1.
Design and Supervision                                         0.1      0.2        -        -        -        -     0.
Subtotal Bus Depots in Sousse                                    0.1      1.2      3.6        -        -        -      4.
4. Bus depots in other Governorates
Construction                                                     -      0.2      0.2      0.2        -        -     0.
Equipment                                                        -    0.04      0.04     0.04        -        -    0.1
Design and Supervision                                           -    0.01      0.01     0.01        -        -    0.0
Subtotal Bus depots in other Governorates                          -    0.23      0.23     0.25        -        -    0.7
Subtotal Infrastructure Improvement                               2.71     6.75     6.38     0.25        -        -   16.C
B. Investments for Improving SMLT's Operations
1. Centralized Traffic Control (CTC) System
System Design and Studies                                     0.39        -        -        -        -        -    0.2
Equipment Supply and Installation                                -    4.21         -        -        -       -     4.2
Subtotal Centralized Traffic Control (CTC) System               0.39     4.21        -        -        -        -    4.(
2. Fare Collection System for SMLT
Constraints, Needs Analysis and Training                      0.19     0.19     0.10        -        -        -    0.t
Equipment Supply and Installation                                -    3.79         -        -        -        -    3.?
Subtotal Fare Collection System for SMLT                        0.19     3.98     0.10        -        -        -    4.
3. Maintenance of SMLT's Trainsets
Needs Analysis and System Design                              0.55        -        -        -        -        -     0.
Maintenance Equipment and Software                               -    0.76         -        -        -        -    0.;
Subtotal Maintenance of SMLT's Trainsets                        0.55     0.76        -        -        -        -     1.
Subtotal Investments for Improving SMLT's Operations               1.13    8.95     0.10        -        -        -   10.
C. Severance Payments
SNT (366 employees)                                             4.08        -        -        -        -        -     4.(
SORETRAS (117 employees)                                         1.30       -        -        -        -        -    1.t
STS (155 employees)                                              1.73       -                                         1-.'-
Other SRTG (260 employees)                                      2.90        -        -        -        -        -     2.
Subtotal Severance Payments                                       10.00       -        -        -        -        -    10.1
Total                                                        13.84    15.69     6.48     0.25        -        -   36.:
- 58 -



Tunisia
Transport Sector - Phase 2 (12 feb 2001) Output Costs in Dollars
Table 2. Railway Modernization and Restructuring
Detailed Costs
(Million US Dollars)
Totals Including Contingencies
2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    Total
I. Investment Costs
Railway Infrastructure Improvements
1. Gafsa - Aguila Track Doubling
Earthworks                                           -    0.17     0.18        -        -       -    0.35
Tracks and Equipment                                 -    0.17     0.17        -        -       -    0.34
Switching Equipment                                  -    0.17     0.18        -        -       -    0.35
Concrete Sleepers                                    -    0.03     0.03        -        -       -    0.07
Ballast                                              -    0.03     0.03        -        -       -    0.07
Transport of Materials and Goods                     -    0.03     0.04        -        -       -    0.07
Works for Track and Switch Laying                    -    0.15     0.16        -        -       -    0.31
Subtotal Gafsa - Aguila Track Doubling                 -    0.77     0.79        -        -       -    1.56
2. Bridge Doubling over Oued Bayech
Construction of Second Bridge                        -    1.30      1.34       -        -       -    2.64
Reinforcing of Existing Bridge Superstructure        -    0.22     0.22        -        -       -    0.44
Subtotal Bridge Doubling over Oued Bayech              -    1.52      1.56       -        -       -    3.08
3. Railway Signals
Temporary Signals                                    -        -    0.06     0.07        -       -    0.13
Central Traffic Control                              -        -    1.59     1.62        -       -    3.21
Improvements to Gafsa and Aguila Signals             -        -    0.43     0.44       -        -    0.87
Subtotal Railway Signals                               -        -    2.08     2.13        -       -    4.21
4. Telecommunication
Train-Ground Radio                                   -        -    1.12     1.14        -       -    2.26
Additional Capacity on Existing Communication Channel  -      -    0.30     0.31        -       -    0.61
Subtotal Telecommunication                             -        -    1.42     1.45        -       -    2.87
5. Studies and Consulting Services
Detailed Engineering Studies                      0.12        -       -        -        -       -    0.12
Communication Software and Studies                   -    0.80        -        -        -       -    0.80
Technical Assistance to Phosphate Unit            0.11     0.33       -        -        -       -    0.44
Subtotal Studies and Consulting Services            0.23     1.13       -        -        -       -    1.36
Sub-total railwayinvestmentss                     0.23     3.42    5.85     3.5B        -       -   13.07
B. Severance Payments                                -    1.01     1.05     1.09     1.13       -    4.28
Total                                             0.23     4.43     6.90    4.67     1.13       -   17.36
Table 3. Sector Management
Detailed Costs
(Million US Dollars)
Totals Including Contingencies
2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    Total
I. Investment Costs
Technical Assistance (bus companies)                    0.3     0.4        -       -        -        -     0.7
Traffic and Transport Studies                          0.3      0.3      0.3     0.3        -        -     1.2
Technical Assistance to Urban Transport Boards         0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2        -     1.1
Total Investment Costs                                  0.8     0.9      05      05                  -     3.0
- 59 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
TUNISIA: TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
This annex has been distributed under separate cover.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Main Assumptions:
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
- 60 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
TUNISIA: TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
December 31
| Yearl     Year2  | Year 3    Year 4  |Year5  I Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          14.8       21.1      13.9        5.4        1.4       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs                                                                  0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         14.8       21.1      13.9        5.4        1.4       0.0       0.0
Front-end fee    0.4        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Financing             15.2       21.1      13.9        5.4        1.4       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   6.9      12.1       10.2        6.4       2.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 8.3       9.0        3.6       -1.0      -0.6       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    15.2       21.1       13.8       5.4        1.4       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 61 -



FINANCIAL SUMMARY FOR REVENUE EARNING PROJECT ENTITIES
(in thousand of current Tunisian Dinars)
1997       1998       1999       2000        2002       2004
Actual                          Forecast i
Income Statement items
Revenues                          68890      69879       68780      71653'    90813>    109368i
Operating expenses                72789      75370       76815,     841230     93703,   1064721
Net income (loss)                 -5031       -5841      -9990      -8688-        981.       387J
.Funds Statement Items                                                                  -
Internal sources                   -162       -1947t     -6002       2127'      2506.       9653,
Borrowings                        10152.      10141-     13055      14506       12954      3293T
Investnents                        8819,       7600      11196%     21121       16192.     411721
Cash Increase (decrease)           1171.        594,    -4143.      -4488        -732;      1418'
Balance Sheet Items
Current assets                    18581      20190       17191       7397       88581      12332.
Net Fixed assets                  41537.      38844      37520      47215.     577761    742901
Total assets                   60118      59034      54711.     54612       66634.     86622
Current Liabilities               18270       17204      20619      23808       12876      11100
Long-Term debt                    12276       10106'    20692'      23838      359421    54895!
Equity                            29572'    31724'       13400       6966       17817      20627k
Total                         60118      59034,     54711      54612'    66634,    866221
JFnancial ratios
workingratio                        88%1       91%        97%        93%.        81%;       81%'
operating ratio                   106%:       108%       112%       108% '       96%0/      97%0/
wages/added value                   83%        88%        96%;       91%         75%        75%
wages/revenues                     60%.        62%        67%        65%         57% 1      57%'
net income/equity                  -71%       -63%       -89%       -101%      -100/e     -96%o/
Long-Termdebt/equity+LTD)          37%J        26%'       72%       103%         99%,       95%0
currentratio                        1.02       1.17       0.83        0.31.      1.35'       1.11
-62 -



Summary Financial Statements for STS
(in thousand of current Tunisian Dinars)
1997      1998       1999       2000       2002       2004
Actual                         Forecast
Income Statement items
Revenues                         15689      16213      18269      19853      19346      21460
Operating expenses               15608      17158      18021      19148      18928      21463
Net income (loss)                   -95     -1495.      -367        542        186          4
Funds Statement Items
Internal sources                  1326       1640      -7472       1819        537       4035
Borrowings                        2574       4493      13007       3136       4140          0
Investments                       4695       5914       4982       5465       4480       4480.
Cash Increase (decrease)          -795        219        553       -510        197       -445
Balance Sheet Items
Current assets                    3072       3331       4412       4597       4696       5161
Net Fixed assets                  7569      11406      12149      14162      15041      14350
Total assets                  10641      14737      16561      18759      19737     19511
Current Liabilities              10311      13621       7369       7492       1669       1842
Long-Termdebt                     3036       5317       4575       6108       7758       5118
Equity                           -2706      -4201       4617       5159      10310      12550
Total                        10641      14737      16561      18759      19737      19511
Flnancial ratios
working ratio                     82%        86%        80%        77%        74%        74%
operating ratio                   97%       103%        96%        94%        95%        98%
wages/added value                 75%        80%        72%        68%        63%        63%
wages/revenues                    53%        55%        53%        50%        44%        43%
net incone/equity               -279%0    -377%        205%       241%        77%        57%
Long-Term debt/(equity+LTD)      920%       476%        50%        54%        43%        29%
current ratio                      0.30       0.24       0.60       0.61       2.81      2.80
- 63 -



Annex 5
Transport Sector Project
Summary Financial Statements for STS
(in thousand of current Tunisian Dinars)
1997      1998       1999       2000       2002       2004
Actual                         Forecast
Income Statement items
Revenues                         15689     16213      18269      19853      19346      21460
Operating expenses               15608      17158     18021      19148      18928      21463
Net income (loss)                  -95      -1495      -367        542        186          4
Funds Statement Items
Internal sources                  1326       1640      -7472      1819        537       4035
Borrowings                        2574      4493      13007       3136       4140          0
Investments                       4695      5914       4982       5465       4480       4480
Cash Increase (decrease)          -795       219        553       -510        197       -445
Balance Sheet Items
Current assets                    3072      3331       4412       4597       4696       5161
NetFixedassets                    7569      11406     12149      14162      15041      14350
Total assets                 10641      14737      16561      18759     19737       19511
Current Liabilities              10311     13621       7369       7492       1669       1842
Long-Term debt                    3036      5317       4575       6108       7758       5118
Equity                           -2706      -4201      4617       5159      10310      12550
Total                       10641      14737      16561     18759      19737      19511
Financial ratios
working ratio                     82%        86%        80%        77%        74%       74%
operating ratio                   97%       103%        96%        94%        95%       98%
wages/added value                 75%        80%        72%        68%        63%       63%
wages/revenues                    53%        55%        53%        50%        44%       43%
net income/equity               -279%      -377%       205%      241%         77%       57%
Long-Term debt/(equity+LTD)      920%       476%        50%        54%       43%        29%
current ratio                     0.30       0.24       0.60       0.61       2.81       2.80
subsidies/total expenses          44%        42%        49%        54%        42%        38%
- 64 -



Annex 5
Transport Sector Project
Summary Financial Statements for SMLT
(in thousand of current Tunisian Dinars)
1997      1998       1999      2000       2002      2004
Actual                         Forecast
Income Statement items
Revenues                        27707     27679      30094     31010      36021      39863
Operating expenses              28619     29105      29534     31481      36040      38346
Net income (loss)               -9686      -9438     -5517      -6619       819       2356
Funds Statement Items
Internal sources               377052      -1026     -4744    -90397       4988       1897
Borrowings                     125000      1795       2240      2993        990       3318
Investments                    472468     10450      13894      10294      7374       7374
Cash Increase (decrease)        29584       299        860       -685     -1397      -2158
Balance Sheet Items
Current assets                  35000     38354      45128     21265      14653      12624
Net Fixed assets               465000    458068    448123    450330    445322    438062
Total assets               500000    496422    493251    471595    459975    450686
Current Liabilities           286000    293177    297872    190537    187283    187315
Long-Term debt                 125000    120311    107668      99309      79332      60936
Equity                          89000     82934      87711    181748    193360    202435
Total                     500000    496422    493251    471594    459975    450685
Financial ratios
working ratio                    74%        75%       70%        74%        69%       67%
operating ratio                 102%       104%       96%       100%        99%       95%
wages/added value                66%        68%       63%        66%       61%        60%
wages/revenues                   50%        53%       51%        52%       49%        49%
net income/equity               -29%       -35%       -37%      -24%       -23%      -21%
subsidies/total expenses         27%        26%       35%        34%       38%        35%
Long-Term debt/(equity+LTD)      58%        59%       55%        35%       29%        23%
current ratio                    0.12       0.13      0.15       0.11       0.08      0.07
- 65 -



Annex 5
Transport Sector Project
Summary Financial Statements for SNCFT
(in thousand of current Tunisian Dinars)
1997      1998       1999       2000       2002      2004
Actual                         Forecast
Income Statement items
Revenues                       126313    126698    133967    136092    150667    165036
Operating expenses             156562    154766    152618    135917    140925    150236
Net income (loss)                -2076      -7490     -6203      -7957      -3933        686
Funds Statement Items
Intemal sources                    39       1508      86910      58600    107756    225027
Borrowings                       15885     38656       1539      25334      13196      19120
Investments                     33242      49809      80295      88749    105985    207753
Cash Increase (decrease)        -17318     -9645       8154      -4815      14967     36394
Balance Sheet Items
Current assets                 133700      90492    106433       97886    110026    178777
Net Fixed assets               458486    484786    542233    603391    717866    976302
Total assets                592186    575278    648666    701276    827891   1155079
Current Liabilities            210180    113542    139373    136192    138526    173293
Long-Term debt                 146943    133267    183708    190375    183969    191418
Equity                         235063    328469    325585    374709    505397    790369
Total                     592186    575278    648666    701276    827891   1155079
Financial ratios
working ratio                 103.97%    103.17%     95.52%    93.26%     86.37%     83.86%
operating ratio               123.95%    122.15%    113.92%    99.87%     93.53%     91.03%
Long-Term debtf(equity+LTD)    38.47%     28.86%     36.07%    33.69%     26.69%     19.50%
current ratio                     0.64       0.80       0.76      0.72       0.79       1.03
Laborcosts in % of op. Revenue    53.31%  53.82%     47.61%     48.99%     46.10%     44.58%
Debt service ratio                -1.18      -0.94       6.18       1.06       1.61      2.25
Net income/equity              -38.04%    -31.01%    -32.83%    -30.84%    -25.62%    -18.20%
Subsidies/total expenses         14.05%     13.57%     13.76%    16.19%      7.84%      0.00%
Assumptions used in the financial projection
The financial analysis of the participating PTEs (STS, SORETRAS, SNT, SMLT, SNCFT) covers
2000-2004 (current year 2000, and the next 4 years). The above tables are a summary of the detailed
financial analysis in the Project File. The main assumptions used in the Financial Projections are as
follows:
1. Inflation The projections are established in current Tunisian Dinars (DT). Local inflation is assumed
running at an annual rate of 4 percent throughout the forecast.
- 66 -



2. Income Statement Items
Revenues      They result from service charged to users including school children and students
which pay the service at token price, and private users paying the full fare. These revenues are forecast to
increase by about 8 per cent a year based on traffic growth and tariff adjustments to cover operating
expenses and generate a positive cash position. SNCFT tariff will be adjusted by 9% in 2001, 15% in 2002
and 10% in 2004.
Compensation  The cost of the public service obligations will be fully funded by the National
Budget. The compensation will bridge the gap between the token price paid by school children and student,
and standard fares. Compensation for free transport given to various organizations, including handicapped,
military and security personnel, and journalists, will be paid by concerned administrations based on
negotiated fares to be included in specific contracts. Each of these contracting entities will thus be bound
to budget their own transport requirements rather than asking the Ministry of Finance to compensate the
PTEs for free transport provided to Government employees. The total compensation is expected to be
limited to a maximum of 30 per cent, 20 per cent and 60 per cent of total expenses by year 2004, for
SRTGs, SNT, and SNCFT respectively.
Payroll       Payroll increases are projected to grow annually by 4%. The number of staff will
decrease over the period by about 366 employees for SNT, 155 for STS, 117 for SORETRAS, and 800 for
SNCFT.
Maintenance and parts These represent 13% of gross fixed assets in operation. This percentage is
based on the PTEs prior years expenses (the underlying assumption is that targeted productivity gains will
be balanced by a more comprehensive coverage of maintenance needs).
Depreciation   Straight-line basis is applied. A flat rate of 8% has been applied as per the
statistics of the PTEs and as per the new assets to be created through the project, using half a year
convention.
Financial charges    Interest expenses for long-term loans are calculated as 70,%o on disbursed
amounts.
3. Cash Flow Statement Items
Internal sources of cash    They include in addition to the internal cash generation sources of
cash from compensation for PSO provided by the government and contractual payments by concemed
administrations.
Capital Expenditures They represent mainly the investment program over a three-year period
(2001-2003) for urban bus transport and railways to improve public services, maintenance and traffic
management, and modernize and expand transport capacities.
Financing
*   The IBRD financing of the program will be accounted for as an equity in the balance sheet of
PTEs.
*   Additional financing will be provided by suppliers to cover about 45 per cent of investments not
covered by the IBRD loan.
- 67 -



4. Balance Sheet Items
The opening Balance Sheet for 2000 and each participating PTEs takes into account their recent or
imminent financial restructuring. The accounts have been audited by independent auditors who have
qualified opinion on 1997 and 1998 accounts. Audit for 1999 accounts were not available at appraisal
time. The most significant issues raised by the auditors concern intemal control procedures, inventory of
assets, reconciliation of some accounts. These issues are being settled through appropriate measures and
an actions by each PTE.
The IBRD loan, as described in par. 3 above, is recognized and treated as investment funds/equity.
Capital Expenditures are incorporated in fixed assets in the years they are commissioned.
Accounts Receivable consist of a fraction (15 to 80 days ) of PTEs operating revenues.
The operational inventory (excluding materials to be incorporated in the investment program)
consists of 3 per cent of total gross fixed assets.
*      Accounts payable are estimated to equal 2 months of (i) the cash expenses, excluding payroll and
(ii) the expenses related to the investment program.
- 68 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
TUNISIA: TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Procurement
1.    The proposed arrangements of procurement methods are presented in Table A. IProcurement of
civil works and goods and services will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits of January 1995, revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999. Civil works related to the doubling of the railway bridge over Oued
Bayech in Gafsa, as well as the construction of bus deports in Tunis, Sousse and Sfax, will be procured
under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) using the Bank's standard bidding documents (SBD).
Other civil works will be procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB), which were reviewed by
the Bank and found generally acceptable. These will apply mainly to the doubling of the track between
Gafsa and Aguila. Small works of less than US$50,000 per contract will be procured under national
shopping procedures up to a maximum amount of US$300,000. Civil works needed to lay and fix the
tracks will be financed by Government.
2.    Goods for SMLT's Fare Collection systems and for SNCFT's Centralized Traffic Control (CTC)
system and railway telecommunication improvements will be procured under ICB. Goods such as ballast,
turnouts, fasteners and other miscellaneous equipment for the doubling of the track between Gafsa and
Aguila, including track works on the bridge over Oued Bayech, will be procured under NCB. Intemational
Shopping procedures will apply to components of rail fasteners of semi-proprietary nature. Related
contracts are not expected to exceed US$100,000. International Shopping procedures will also apply to
procurement of goods costing US$50,000 or less per contract up to a cumulative amount of US$200,000.
National Shopping procedures will apply to procurement of goods costing US$10,000 or less per contract
up to a cumulative amount of US$ 100,000.
3.    Consultants will be selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997
and January 1999. Consultant activities relate to studies, short term expert advice and training. Only firms
will be shortlisted with the exception of short term consulting services to increase the efficiency of
operations and management of the urban bus companies for which the Borrower may resort to individual
consultants. The selection will usually be based on quality and cost.
4.    Procurement responsibilities will rest with the different executing agencies for project activities
related to each of them, namely: the Ministry of Transport for Technical Assistance and for investments
benefiting smaller SRTGs; SMLT for investment related to the improvement of the Tunis light rail system;
SNT, Soretras and STS for investments linked to the construction and equipment of bus depots respectively
in Tunis, Sfax and Sousse; and SNCFT for investments related to track works between Gaisa and Aguila
and on the bridge over Oued Bayech. Each one of these executing agencies have a competent staff that can
handle procurement and financial activities. The Ministry of Transport will manage the project and take
responsibility for coordinating the execution of the various components of the project through the PMU that
is already in charge of implementing the first phase of the APL. The PMU is staffed with competent
personnel that is familiar with the Bank's procurement and financial procedures. The PMU will delegate
specific procurement activities, including contract management, to a project liaison officer in each of the
PTEs. The experience with procurement through early implementation of Phase I of the APL has been
positive, and there is no reason to expect major problems in procurement during implementation of Phase 2.
- 69 -



Prior Review Threshold
5.    All contracts for works exceeding US$500,000 and contracts for goods and equipment exceeding
US$350,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank. For consultant services, all contracts valued at
US$100,000 and above, together with the terms of reference and the shortlist would also be subject to prior
review. This provision would apply to traffic and urban transport studies that are not financed by the Bank
but which relate to investments that the Bank would finance. The expected number of contracts is
relatively limited and the prior review of contracts for works, goods and consultant services would apply to
at least 80% of Bank financed procurement. The Bank's review process is presented in Table B.
Disbursement
6.     The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is presented in Table C. Loan proceeds will be disbursed
against:
(a) 70 percent of the cost of civil works including taxes;
(b) for goods, 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local ex-factory expenditures
and 80 percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally; and
(c) 100 percent for consultants services and training, excluding taxes.
Special account
7.     To facilitate project implementation, a special account will be established at the Central Bank to
facilitate disbursements of the loan to the Republic of Tunisia. The maximum authorized allocations will
be equal to US$2,000,000. This maximum amount will be reached when the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the loan account plus the total of outstanding special commitments are equal to the
equivalent of US$5,000,000.
Retroactive financing
8.    Retroactive financing will be allowed within the limit of 10% of the loan amount (namely, Euro 4.1
million) for eligible expenditures incurred after January 31, 2001.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Standard methods will apply.
- 70 -



Tunisia
Transport Sector- Phase 2 (12 feb 2001) Output Costs in Dollars
Procurement Arrangements
(Million US Dollars)
Procurement Method
International  National
Competitive Competitivelnternational   Direct   Consulting
Bidding    Bidding   Shopping Contracting  Services    N.B.F.    Total
Civil Works                 14.5        1.9          -          -         0.8        0.3     17.5
(10.2)      (1.3)                             (0.7)              (12.2)
Equipment                   12.7        0.6        0.5          -           -        5.2     18.9
(10.4)     (0.4)       (0.4)                                     (11.2)
Technical Assistance           -          -          -           -        4.6        1.2      5.8
and training                                                         (3.8)                (3.8)
Capacity Building              -          -          -          -           -          -
Severance Payments             -          -          -        10.0          -        4.3     14.3
(10.0)                         (10.0)
TOTAL                     27.2        2.5         0.5       10.0        5.4        10.9     56.5
(20.6)      (1.7)      (0.4)     (10.0)      (4.5)          -   (37.2)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by The World Bank
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                      Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure      QCBS        QBS$       SF5        LCS         Co        Other      N.B.F.   Total Cost
A. Firms             5.10       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00       1.20       6.30
(4.25)    (0.00)     (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)     (4.25)
B. Individuals       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.30       0.00       0.00       0.30
(0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.25)     (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.25)
Total   5.10       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.30       0.00       1.20       6.60
(4.25)     (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.25)     (0.00)     (0.00)     (4.50)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 71 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                    above US$3 m                ICB               above US$500,000
Bus depots and track        up to US$3 m                NCB               above US$500,000
doubling                  below US$50,000         National shopping
2. Goods                  above US$350,000              ICB                above US$350,000
Equipment for SMLT and    up to US$350,000              NCB                     None
SNCFT                     below US$50,000        National Shopping or           None
international shopping
3. Services             US$100,000 and above           QCBS              US$100,000 and above
TORs, Shortlists, LOI,
Contracts
below US$100,000             QCBS                     None
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$27 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 72 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                              Euros)             to be Financed
1-        Civil Works:                                              70%
(a) for Parts A.1 to A.4 of the Project;       10,570,000
,and:
(b) for Part C.1 (a) of the Project             3,810,000.
2 -        Goods:                                                   100% of Foreign Expenditures,
100% of Local expenditures
(a) for Part A of the Project;                  3,810,000.            (ex-factory cost):
(b) for Part B of the Project;                   550,000-           and 80% of local expenditures
(c) for Part C.1 of the Project; and            1,000,000             for other items
(d) for Part C.3 of the Project                 4,450,000.
3 -        Consultants' Services                                    100%
(a) for Parts A and B of the Project; and       1,530,000
(b) for Part C of the Project                   1,090.000.
4 -        Training                              550,000            100%
5-         Severance Payments                   9,800,000           100%
Under Part A.8 of the Project
6 -        Fee                                   410,000            Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this,
Agreement
7-         Unallocated                          3,430,000;
'TOTAL                              41,000,000             __
Assessment of the Financial Management Systems and Action Plan
Current Institutional Arrangement
9.      Project Management Unit (PMU). The PMU created within the MOT to implement. the first phase
of the APL will be responsible for implementing the second phase. Its main responsibilities and tasks
- 73 -



include: (i) project implementation and monitoring, (ii) financial management of the project, (iii) contracts
management, and (iv) preparation of the consolidated project management reports.  The PMU is
responsible for data collection and for recording project related financial information gathered from other
executing agencies and Central Bank (CB), including use of counterpart funds and loan proceeds. The
PMU will delegate procurement activities and contracts management for the SRTG components to
designated staff with required procurement and financial skills. The role and responsibilities of the said
staff will be spelled out in a protocol, acceptable to the Bank to be signed between the MOT and the PTEs.
In addition, the PMU will be responsible for preparing and clearing withdrawal applications to be sent to
BC and the Bank for disbursement.
10.   In parallel, another department within the DGPE, the "Direction des Etudes Sectorielles et de 1'
Analyse Financiere is acting as independent reviewer of the project's activities. This department is in
charge of: (i) monitoring the financial performance of Transport enterprises (PTEs) including those
participating in the ongoing project, (ii) follow-up on auditors commnents and recommendations, (iii)
enforcement of performance contracts and Protocols signed between the Government and PTEs, (iv)
definition with the MOT and the Finance Ministry of the level of subsidies to be provided to the PTEs, and
(v) monitoring the operating and investment budgets.
Financial Management Assessment
11.   PMU: A review of the Financial Management System (FMS) of the PMU and DESAF indicates
that the two entities are adequately staffed with highly competent and motivated management and advisory
teams and that the accounting system is based on public sector accounting principles and procedures
applicable to government administrations. Currently, PMU established cash basis accounting system
enables to record all data provided. However, some strengthening is desirable for consolidation of project
financial data as well as providing cumulative and detailed information, financial statements and reports
specific to the project showing the use and flow of funds, contracts management, disbursement activities,
planned and budgeted exTpenses by category and contracts as required by the Bank. Project Management
Reports (PMR) will be adopted by the PMU as a way to implement more rigorous and adequate financial
management systems, enabling them to reliably collect and record financial and technical information
related to project activities. The system will provide semi-annual PMRs which will provide pertinent and
reliable information, including progress on implementation of project components, procurement process,
contracts management, use of funds, disbursements, and budgeting and planning. By July 31, 2001, the
PMU will put in place a detailed chart of account, the accounts procedures and the financial reporting
system as well as internal control mechanisms specific to the project and in compliance with the Bank's
requirements that will be reflected in the Financial Management Procedures Manual (FMPM). During the
transition period, the system would allow the development of interim reporting on use of fund and
procurement (e.g. tables IA, 1B, 3A, 3B, 3C and 3D of the Bank's "Project Financial Management
Manual"), report format will be discussed and agreed during negotiations. Beginning December 31, 2001,
a full set of PMRs will be submitted to the Bank on a semi-annual basis.
12.    SNCFT:  SNCFT is a commercial and revenue earning entity practicing accrual accounting. It
has established and operated a financial management system for the project that meets the Bank minimum
requirement. The system as well as internal control mechanism and reporting arrangement have been in
operation since the beginning of implementation of the first phase of the APL. The system is operated by a
well staffed and competent project management unit which liaises with the PMU in the MOT responsible
for the implementation of phase I and II of the APL. SNCFT financial statements are audited by and
independent auditor, and audit reports have been submitted to the Bank on regular basis. Audit reports
contain some qualifications which are being addressed by SNCFT.
- 74 -



Remedial actions
13.   To fulfill its obligation under the ongoing APL1 and the forthcoming second phase of APL2, the
PMU has improved its financial management system. More specifically, in order to ensure adequate
financial management of the project as regards the use of funds, accuracy and appropriateness of expenses,
consolidation of financial information provided by the executing agencies, preparation of PMRs during
project implementation, the PMU has developed a set of tables that reflect the Special Account activities
and expenses by component and by contract. It further intends to undertake the following actions: (i)
acquisition and/or development of an appropriate software for project management: the PMU will draw
advantages from using the software which has been developed for other Bank's projects in Tunisia; (ii)
provide additional specific training in the area of financial management to PMU staff; and (iii) hire short
term consultants (CPA) to assist the PMU team in updating the FMPM, selecting the most suitable
software and preparing quarterly PMRs including preparation of the financial statements of the project in
the agreed format and consolidation of the financial information provided by the executing agencies. The
preparation of the Financial Reporting System and of the upgraded FMPM will be completed by July 31,
2001 (dated covenant in the Loan Agreement). Signing of the protocols between the MOT and the PTEs is
a condition of effectiveness.
Financial Management System
14.   PMU would be responsible for overall project monitoring and coordination as well as financial,
budgeting, procurement, and accounting functions, and would operate a computerized cash accounting
system for the project, prepare and disseminate Financial Statements (FS) and PMRs. The PMU would
ensure that timely submission to the Bank of the project FS and related audit reports.
15.   The PMU includes the following staff: a Project Manager who maintains the accounting system,
and issue the annual financial statements of the project and the PMR with the assistance of the fmancial
management specialist and representative from the participating PTEs to whom procurement and financial
duties will be delegated. Procedures for accounts and financial reporting, intemal control mechanisms as
well as role and responsibilities of PMU staff and delegates from the PTEs would be defined by consultant
firm and reflected in the FMPM. Short term consultant (CPA) to assist the PMU team in updating the
FMPM, preparing quarterly PMRs, and annual financial statements of the project in the agreed format.
The respective roles and responsibilities of the delegated staff in the participating PTEs in ihe execution of
the Project; the procurement, disbursement, financial management and reporting arrangements; and the
parameters for working and operating ratios as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank will be spelled
out in the protocol to be signed between the PTEs and the Ministry of Transport. The agreed minutes of
negotiations include a paragraph stating the elements that should feature in the respective conventions.
Project Accounting System
16.   Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds (including beneficiary contributions),
and all utilization of project funds. All project-related transactions would be accounted in the books of
accounts. Disbursements made by the World Bank and the Special Account maintained by the CB would
also be covered by the project accounting system. Funds received from different sources World Bank,
lenders, Government budget, and beneficiaries would be identified separately and reflected in the project
accounts and financial statements.
17.   The FMS would allow capturing data and project-related transactions and activities at all stages of
- 75 -



project implementation. A Balance sheet reflecting all transactions for the project would be prepared
quarterly and as requested. The data will be captured and classified in a manner as to facilitate financial
reporting of project expenditures by: (i) project components and sub-components; (ii) contracts; (iii)
disbursement categories; and (iv) expenditures and sources of funds indicated in the project documents
(Project Implementation Plan, Project Appraisal Document, Project costs).
18.   Physical key perfornance indicators, which can be linked to financial ratios, and indicators would
be maintained as part of the project financial reporting system. Both types of indicators have been
identified and would be in the Project implementation plan and in the PMR. This list would be expanded as
needed during implementation.
Information Flow
19.   PMU would generate and maintain all supporting documentation for expenditures on activities of
the project. The PMU would provide monthly summary statement of expenditure based on the FMS along
with other information and documents. To this end, the PMU would liaise with delegated staff in the PTEs
to ensure that financial data specific to the project are appropriately and timely recorded and transmitted to
the PMU. This system would be periodically reviewed during implementation and improved as necessary.
Flow of Funds
20.   The allocation of funds would include counterpart funds of MOT and the IBRD funds. Annual
budgetary allocations would be based on the annual budget for project activities prepared by PMU. All
funds from the Bank loan and budget allocations for the project would flow through one special account
(SA) opened at the Central Bank of Tunisia. Deposit into and payments out of the SA will be made in
accordance with the provision of the Loan Agreement. All procurement activities including contract
management, will be the responsibility of the PMU. Withdrawal applications and replenishment of the SA
would be prepared by the PMU and sent to the Bank under authorized signature.
Internal Controls
21.   The existing internal control presents some weaknesses reported by the auditors that have no major
impact on project implementation in both the PMU and the PTEs such as the absence of updated
procedures manual, inadequate computerized systems and insufficient periodical checks and balances.
These weaknesses are being tackled by each of the participating enterprises and it is expected that an
updated manual and fully computerized systems will be in effect by July 31, 2001.
Project Management Reports
22.   PMRs for the project would be generated by the PMU semi-annually and sent to the Bank 45 days
following the close of each semester. These reports would summarize all transactions and would be used
for project management. The reports would include: (i) budgeted and actual expenditures with an analysis
of major variances on sources and application of funds by components, expenditure categories, and
physical parameters and financial targets; (ii) expenditures by disbursement categories; (iii) forecasts for
the coming semester. Formats for these reports are in the project files. Since PMRs are normally produced
quarterly, it was agreed at negotiations that the exception granted under the project (reporting on a
semi-annual basis) would be jointly revisited in December 2002.
Audit Arrangements
- 76 -



23.    Annual audit reports on the Project FS would be submitted to the Bank as soon as issued and no
later than June 30 of the following year. The reports would include: (i) a statement of sources and use of
funds indicating funds received from various sources, project expenditures, and assets and '.iabilities of the
project. This would also include appropriate schedules classifying project expenditures by components,
and expenditure categories; (ii) a Special Account Reconciliation Statement; and (iii) a Statement of
Withdrawals from the IBRD Loan made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
24.   Independent auditors acceptable to the Bank will audit the project accounts, including the SA and
the SOEs. The auditors will carry out their duties in conformity with international audit standards and on
the basis of TORs reviewed by the Bank.
25.    The audit will be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and utilization
of funds, and expenditures incurred by all implementing agencies). The audit will be carried out in
accordance with International Standards of Auditing. The Terms of Reference of the auditors includes both
audit of financial transaction, and an assessment of the operation of the financial management system per
se, including review of internal control mechanisms.
Disbursement:
26.    A Special Account would be operated and maintained in the Central Bank of Tunisia. The
authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$2,000,000.00 which represents about 4 months
of estimated disbursements from the Bank Loan. The Special Account would be operated in accordance
with the Bank's operational policies.
27.    Disbursements would be made against Withdrawal Applications for reimbursements of expenditure
with full documentation, reimbursement of expenditures against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), and
direct payments. The BANK would disburse against SOEs for the following types of expenditures: (i) on
contracts for works, goods not exceeding US$500,000.00 and US$350,000.00 equivalent respectively; (ii)
on contracts for consultants services not exceeding US$100,000.00; (iii) on contract f.or training not
exceeding US$50,000.00; (iv) for staff severance under the urban transport component.
28.   Although disbursements would be made using the Bank's existing disbursement procedures (as
described above), it was agreed that the PMU would operate the project financial management system and
produce semi-annual PMRs from the system; and that the PMU would take necessary steps (especially the
adoption of computerized system and recruitment of consultant) to produce a reliable PMR on a quarterly
basis.
29.   In order to meet the Bank's requirements the action plan developed in the following paragraphs will
be agreed upon by all parties.
Risks
30.   There are two main risks relating to financial management aspects that could adversely affect the
project performance: (i) insufficient internal control and delays in implementing the PMUs accounting and
financial procedures; and (ii) delays in preparation and implementation of the FMS and of PMRs. These
risks are manageable and risk-mitigation measures are outlined below. Close monitoring of these aspects
will be achieved during project supervision.
- 77 -



31.   Risks of insufficient internal control arrangements and delays in preparation of PMR are mitigated
by the following factors: (i) commitment to train and maintain well staffed PMU; and signing of new
performance contracts and the Protocols between the MT and each enterprise; (ii) hiring of consultant to
define procedures which would govern management of project expenditures in particular and to adapt an
adequate computerized system for PMR.
32.   Timely preparation and use of the PMRs, and satisfactory quality of these reports, are essential to
facilitate effective project management. Disbursements from the Bank Loan will not be made on the basis
of PMRs but on a traditional reimbursement basis. PMR will be used primarily for proper management of
project expenses, financial reporting and monitoring of project activities (see letter on Project Readiness for
PMR-Based Disbursements at the end of this section).
Action Plan
33.   The PMU under the Ministry of Transport will be responsible for consolidating financial and
administrative information provided by the executing agencies, SNCFT, STS, SNT, SMLT et
SORETRAS, as well as those related to the institutional aspect of the project and provided by the
administration. The PTEs are adequately staffed and structured to manage their components of the project
and produce reports in the agreed format. The PMU staff, however, needs to be strengthened to coordinate
and manage the project. It should have appropriate means and skills and provide training to all staff in
charge of the project to be able to generate financial reports and monitor project activities.
34    The FMPM will be updated and will include description of procedures for financial management
and internal control arrangements, definition of roles and responsibilities of PMU staff, including their
counterparts in the executing agencies, and determination of timetable and frequencies for transmitting and
preparing financial data. The Financial Reporting and the FMPM will be developed by July 31, 2001.
35.   The PMU will prepare a chart of accounts for the project based on project description. A manual
will support this chart, which describe the functioning of each account in accordance with public sector
accounts principles and procedures. The PMU, with the assistance of a consultant, will develop and or
adopt software enabling automatic breakdown of expenses incurred during project implementation and
building a project database.
36.   The PMU will make sure that it will: (i) keep qualified financial staff, (ii) update their accounting
and financial procedures, (iii) improve the procedures for maintaining data and supporting documents, and
(iv) prepare and implement a training program for the financial staff.
37.    The PMU will define the procedures for preparation of the PMR based on information and reports
prepared by the executing agencies. The computerized model should allow for appropriate linkages with
other applications to generate information needed for the PMR. The PMR will be submitted to the Bank 45
days after the end of each semester.
38.   The above described action plan, included in the PIP, will be executed according to the attached
timetables.
- 78 -



Actions                                               Date                    Responsibility
Prepare TOR for hiring consultant to assist PMU       28 February 2001        PMU/DGPE
Prepare training program for PMU                      28 February 2001         PMU/Consultant
TOR for hiring independent auditors                   28 February 2001        PMU & CGF
Signing of the Protocols                              Before effectiveness    PMU (GOT and PTEs)
Execution of the training program                     June 30 2001            PMU & PTEs
Update and improve the FMS (including FMPM)           July 31, 2001           PMU/Consultant
Acquisition and implementation of PMR software        31 July 2001            PMU & PTEs
Preparation of the 1 st PMR                           December 31 2001        PMU
- 79 -



Letter Assessin2 Proiect Readiness for PMR-Based Disbursements
The World Bank                                                    1818 H Street N.W.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT             Washington, D.C. 20433
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
June 8, 2000
Republic of Tunisia
Transport Sector Investment II
Report on the Assessment of Project of PMR-Based Disbursement
[Financial Management System]
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective of the
review was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management
system as required by the Bank under OPAIBP 10.02
My review, which included visits o the project implementing agency, was based on the Bank's
guidelines for "Review of Financial Management System", and focused on the assessment of the
project's accounting system, internal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system,
selection of an auditor as well as the format and contents of the Project Management Report
(PMR) to be submitted by the Borrower in support of Withdrawal Applications.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
However, in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate project financial
management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information
on the status of the project (PMR) as required by the Bank for the PMR-based Disbursements.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that un  in the system together with an
agreed action plan by the borrower to remedy the si
Senior FinancialAnalyst/FMS
RCA 248423. WUI 64145 FAX (202) 477-6391



Letter Assessina Procurement/Contract Manaaement System
The World Bank                                    1818 H Street N.W.      (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION             U.S.A.                  Cable Address: INDEVAS
February 13, 2001
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT - PHASE 2
Report on the Assessment of the ProcurementlContract Management System
I have reviewed the procurement/contract management system relating to this project,
including the format and content of the section of Project Management Report (PMR)
on procurement monitoring.
The objective of the review was to determine whether the procurement/contract
management system adopted by the project conforms to the Bank's guidelines for
procurement in investment projects.
My review was based on the "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project
Procurement, Setting of Prior Review Thresholds and Procurement Supervision Plan"
guidelines issued by the Bank.
I certify that the project has in place a procurement/contract management system that
can provide the appropriate data on major procurement and contract management as
required by the Bank.
Claude Archambault
Senior Transport Specialist
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
RCA 248423. m WUI 64145 m FAX (202) 477-6391



Letter Assessing Physical Monitorable Indicators and Overall Assessment
The World Bank                                       1818 H Street N.W.        (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                U.S.A.                    Cable Address: INDEVAS
February 13, 2001
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT - PHASE 2
Report on the Assessment of the Physical Monitorable Indicators and Overall
Assessment
I have reviewed the project's system for monitoring physical implementation progress,
including its monitorable indicators for major outputs, and certify that the system can
provide the appropriate data on physical progress (PMR - section 2) as required by the
Bank.
I also certify that based on the assessments of the FPS-OPR and the Procurement
Specialist given above, taken together with my own overall assessment of the project, this
project is suitable for consideration under the PMR-based disbursement procedure.
Principal Transport Economist
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
TUNISIA: TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Proect Schedule                                     Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       6                              13
First Bank mission (identification)
Appraisal mission departure                                                     11/13/2000
Negotiations                                     01/23/2001                    02/08/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    06/01/2001
Prepared by:
N/A
Preparation assistance:
N/A
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Michel Loir                        Transport Economist
Karim-Jacques Budin                Railway Specialist
Claude Archambault                 Transport and Procurement Specialist
Fathi Ben Slimane                  Financial Management Specialist
Ahmed Basti                        Social Scientist, Consultant
Keith Rennie                       Sociel Scientist
Hocine Chalal                      Environmental Specialist
- 83 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
TUNISIA: TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
The same organization in effect under Phase I of the APL will be continued under Phase II. An adapted
implementation plan will be submitted as a condition of negotiation and finalized by the Borrower before
effectiveness.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
I .    Economic Evaluation of the bus depot in Sfax.
2.     Construction of a bus depot in Tunis (at Bokri): economic evaluation
3.    Analysis of fiscal impacts.
4.     Productivity investments in the Phosphate Railway Network Economic Evaluation.
5.    Proposal to move to Phase 2.
C. Other
1.    Systra: "Organisation et Coordination des Transports Publics Urbains et Regionaux de Voyageurs
en Tunisie". Rapport final - 06-23-1999 (2 volumes).
2.     Canac: "Etude de Rationalisation et de Modernisation des Transports Ferroviaires de l'Industrie
Phosphatiere". Rapport Final - January 1999.
3.    Ahmed Basti: " Economic and Social Analysis" (Translated in English by K.Rennie in December
2000), on P:\Tunisia\ID\64082\APPR\PAD annex 6 RENNIE - DEC.
4.     Draft Terms of Reference for the Environmental Impact Study on the track and bridge doubling
between Aguila and Gafsa.
*Including electronic files
- 84 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
TUNISIA: TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Feb-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Ofiginal Amount in USS Milions                               disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
P035707       2000 TN-WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT                103.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     S4.51       0.00      0.00
P050945       2000 TNI-EducatLon PAQSET I                             99.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      i8.01     -0.32      0.00
P053255       1999 TN-ECAL II                                        159.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     67.64      87.66      0.00
P055814       1999 TN-EXPORT DEVELOPMENT                              35.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     28.84       9.48      0.00
P005741       1998 HIGHER EDUC. II                                    80.00      0.0                   0.00       0.00     S5.35      21.28       0.00
P043700       1998 TRANSPORT SECTOR INV                               50.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     21.63      22.85      0.00
P005746       1998 TN4HEALTH SECTOR LOAN                              50.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     35.89      22.73      0.00
P050418       1998 TN-ASIL 2                                          42.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      I4.79     15.08      0.00
P005736       1997 NATURAL RESOURCE MGM                              26.50       0.00                  0.00      0.00       17.27     10.51      0.00
P046832       1997 MUNICIPAL DEV. II                                  80.00      000                   0.00       0.00      3.21      -0.67      0.00
P005731       1997 TN-GREATER TUNIS SEWERAGE                          60.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     41.54      17.43       0.00
P040208       1996 TN-INDUSTRY SUPPORT INSTITUTION                    38 70      0.00                  0.00       0.00     25.82      22.31       0.00
P005745       1996 2ND EMPL. & TRG.                                   60,00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     :32.50     22.40      2.77
P005720       1995 TN-RURAL FINANCE                                   65.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     22.11      22.11      13.78
P005589       1995 SOLAR WATER HEATING                                 0.00      0.00                  4.00       0.00      3.09       -0.02     0.00
P005680       1995 TN-WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE                       58.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      14.44     10.87       0.00
P005743       1995 SECONDARY EDUCATION                                98.30      0.00                  0.00       0.00      18.56     24.80      12.17
P005749       1995 RURAL ROADS                                        51.50      0.00                  0.00       0.00      2.14      -2.21       0.00
P005733        1994 DEV.OFMTSNWREGION                                 27.50      0.00                  0.00       1.48       1.53      2.36       1.15
P005725        1993 SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT                       69.00      0.00                  0.00      18.87      10.06     32.44       1.14
P005726        1992 HIGHER EDUCATION                                  75.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      19.87     25.29      22.29
Total:    1327.50        0.00               4.00        20.36     6138.78    366.38      53.30
- 85 -



TUNISIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Feb-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998/00             BIAT                            0.00    0.29     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.29     0.00    0.00
1993               Ideal Sanitaire                  0.00    1.02     0.00     0.00    0.00     1.02    0.00    0.00
1995                Maghreb IM Bank                 0.00    0.33     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.33     0.00    0.00
1986/92/98          SITEX                           0.00    0.77     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.77     0.00    0.00
1973/75             Sousse-Nord                     0.00    0.59     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.59     0.00    0.00
1998                Tuninvest                       0.00    4.53     0.00     0.00    0.00    3.49     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:          0.00    7.53     0.00     0.00     0.00    6.49     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 86 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
TUNISIA: TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           & North   middle-
Tunisia    Africa   income       Development diamond'
1999
Population. mid-year (millions,                         9.5      291      2.094                 Life expectancy
GNP oer capita (Atlas method, USS)                   2.100      2,060     1.200
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                       19.9       599     2,513
Average annual growth. 1993-99
PoDulation (%)                                          14        2.1       11      irs
Labor force (%J                                         2,8       3.0       1.2     GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available. 1993-99)                               capita                       ' enrolimen
Povertv (% of Population below national povorty line)   7.6
Urban poDulation (X of total PoDulation)                65         58       43
Lafe expectancY at birth (years)                        72        68         69
lnfant mortality (per 1.000 live births)                28        45         33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5S               9         15        15                Access to safe water
Access 'to imoroved water source /% of Population,       ..        71        86
Illiteracy (% of population age 15-)                    30        36         16
Gross orimarv enrollment % of school-ape population)   118        95        114              Tunisia
Male                                                 122       102       114               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               114        88       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                            7.2      10.1      20.0      21.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP                29.4     23.9       27.5      27.8
Exports of coods and services/GDP            39.0     44.3       42.4      42.0                     Trade
Gross dormestic savincs/GOP                  26,4     20.6       24.3      24.9
Gross national savings/GDP                      .     20.8       23.9      24.9                       T
Current account balance/GDP                   -4.1    -3.1       -34       -2.9       omt
Interest Payments/GOP                                                               Domest2c 3  2.  2  x         Investment
Total debt/GDP                               47.3     69.1       55.5      56.5     Savings
Totaldebtservice/exports                     12.1     21.5       15.0      11.3
Present value of debt/GOP                                .       53.6
Present value of debt/exports                                   114.3
indebtedness
1979-89  19S9-99     1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  3.5      4.7       5.0       6.2       5.8              Tunisia
GNP Der capita                       0.7      2.9      4.1        5.0       4.6               Lower-middle-income group
ExDorts of coods and services        4.3      4.9      3.9        4.2       5.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(%of GDP)
Acr:culture                                  13.5      12.9      12.4      12.9
Industrv                                     28.9     31.1       28.4      282       6 _                      4
Manufacturinc                               11.6     17.0      18.2      18.2           o-       -                -
Services                                     57.6     55.9       59.1      59.0             9    95   96   97   ga   99
Private consumption                          58.4     62.1       62.7      59.4      2 -
Generalcovernmentconsumotion                 15.2     17.3       13.0      15.6               -G DI              GDP
imports of coods and services                42.0     47.7       45.6      44.8
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999     Growth of exports and imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Acgculture                                    2.3       3.4      -1.0      110 i0
Industry                                      3.3      4.4        4.9       5.1 
Manufacturing                                5.3      3.9       3.8       6.0       T.
Services                                      3.8      5.4        6.5       6.8     s 4        N0
Private consumption                           3.5      4.8        5.0       5.9     o...                           ,
General covernment consumption                4.5       1.3       4.7       4.9       !    94   95          97   9e   99
Gross domestic investment                     -2.5     4.3        5.5      1.6    -5
:moorts of coods and services                 1.1      3.7        4.2       6.4            -Exports    lmports
Gross national Droduct                        3.3      4.7        5.4       6.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group averace. If data are missincg the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 87 -



Tunisia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
.omestrc,prices                             179       99       1999     1999      Inflation (%)
M% chanqe)                                                                       i 
Consumer prices                                       7.7       31        2.7
Implicit GDP defiator                       10,4      8.8       3.6       3.3
Government finance                                                               i2
(M of GDP. includes current grants)                                               0
Current revenue                                ..    27.0      29.3      23.9            94    95   96   97   9S
Current budget balance                         ..     1.0       4.5       3.6    i       -GDP C              e
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -5.3       -2.4      -3.1
TRADE
tISS millions)1979    1989  1993'    1999    iExport and import levels (USS mill.)
(USS millions) 
Total exports (fob)                        1,788    2,931     5.722    6.050    .10.000
Fuel                                       868      585       367       392
Agriculture                                 65      197        193       ..      ' 5OO* *
Manufactures                               809    2,099      3,804
Total imports (cif)                        2,846    4,372     7,872    8,595 5
Food                                       369      578       655       573        s* *
Fuel and energy                            490      380       375       451
Capital goods                              687      836  ' .314    2,293 o
93  94  95  96  97  98  99
Export price index (1995-o00)                 ..       ..        92
rmport price index (1995=100)                 ..                 95        ..C  Ex;or                         lrnporis
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      ..        97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999
-US$ miffions)                       1979    1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(USS millilons)
Exports of goods and services              2.802    4,546     8.481    8,824 
imports of goods and services              3,161    4,882     9,080    9.428          i
Resource balance                            -359    -336       -598      -604       i
Net income                                  -266    -479       -858      -878
Net current transfers                        331      503       776      869
Current account balance                     -295    -312      -480       -614    .6
Financing iRems (netl)                       452     409        493     1.01t
Changes in net reserves                     -158      -97       187      -397    -
Memo:
Reserves including gold WUS$rillions)          ..      ..    1.852    2,271
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USS)             0.4      0.9       1 1       1.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(USS millions)                                                                    Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Tota; debt outstanding and disbursed       3,399    6,974    1 1,078    11,877
IBRD                                      232    1,154      1.458    1.486
IDA                                         67      81         43       41G:100                        A1.3
otal debt service                          378    1,101      1,402    1,108    .: 43
IBRO                                       33      190        268      258
IDA                                          1       2          2        2        :.5
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                D  13988
Official grants                             30      88         61       85
Official creCitors                         188     329       -137        7
Priva-e creditors                         313    -142           4        2
Foreign direct investment                  49       79        650      409
Portfolio eruity                             0       0         40        0                      E: 3,767
World Bank program
Commnitments                                99     373        222      194      A - BRO                    E - B.lateral
Disbursemnents                              56     259        142      209      8 - IDA    0 - Other rnutluateral  F - Private
Principal repayrerints                      14     104        180      188      C-:MF                      C-Shor-term
Net flows                                   42     155        -39       41
Interest payments                           20      88         91       92
Net transfers                              22       67       -129      -51
Development Economics                                                                                              9112100
- 88-



