Report No. PID8759
Project Name                     Tunisia-Transport Sector Investment II (@)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Transportation Adjustment
Project ID                       TNPE64082
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
13 rue 8006, Cite Montplaisir, 1004 Tunis
Contact Person: Salem Miladi
Tel: 216-1-795-289
Fax: 216-1-792-219
Email: miladi@email.ati.tn
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 30, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         November 20, 2000
Projected Board Date             April 19, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The Tunisia - Transport Sector Adaptable Program Loan (APL), approved in
June, 1998, will address some of the key transport sector issues, namely:
an investment deficit for modernization and extension of facilities; still
limited private sector participation in service delivery; lack of
competition in ports, interurban and urban passenger transport;
insufficient coordination of transport modes; a flawed incentives
framework for urban transport; inefficient railways that impose a heavy
burden on the Government budget. The Government strategy in the transport
sector is reflected in activities envisaged under the APL, which supports
a transport reform and investment program starting with the Ninth
Development Plan of Tunisia (1997-2001) and extending to 2005. The
program is comprised of two phases:(a) Phase I, which was initiated in
1998, focused on ports and railways. (b) Phase II, which is this project,
is to: (i) reform urban transport; and (ii) modernize the railway network
for transport of rock phosphate and its derivates.    After 18 months of
implementation under Phase I, the program is broadly on track.
2. Objectives
The project's development objectives are to create an institutional
framework that will support sustainable growth of public transport in
major cities, and enhance the profitability of railway operations in the
phosphate sector. Under the urban transport component, an organization
will be established to begin addressing the delivery of public transport
services in a cost efficient manner.    Under the railway component, the
project will eliminate excess costs incurred by Societe Nationale des
Chemins de Fer Tunisiens (SNCFT) in transporting phosphate rock and
derivates, remove transport bottlenecks to phosphate mining and traffic
increases, and ensure profitability of railway services.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement



The Bank has extensive experience in formulating and implementing
appropriate strategies to address urban transport needs, and Bank advice
on project related matters and transport at large, is clearly of value to
the GOT. The transport strategy within the Ninth Plan under
implementation derives from an analysis that was conducted jointly by GOT
and the Bank (Report No. 14846-TUN plus the Etude sur la strategie des
transports published in the Middle East and North Africa series of Bank
Economic Studies in 1997). GOT's recent expression of interest in
transport concessions, an area in which they have limited experience,
opens a new field where Bank guidance could again make a difference.The
Bank has a long history of assisting governments worldwide to address
urban transport issues. Lessons were drawn from successes and failures
met by the cohort of urban transport operations, and also from the
experience of non-borrowing countries (the United Kingdom in particular).
The Bank has a wealth of knowledge on best practices in the sector, which
GOT can tap, rather than embarking on untested experiments of its own.The
Bank's experience with urban transport in Tunisia, including the study
that produced the proposed reform blueprint and led to a number of
recommendations that were jointly developed by MOT and the project team,
will greatly facilitate consensus building.Finally, the Bank's broad
experience in implementing projects will facilitate tackling of unexpected
issues as they arise. It is also expected that the Bank's presence will
solidify an emerging consensus among key ministries (transport, economic
development and finance) on transport reforms.
4. Description
Phase II of the APL is comprised of three components two of which relate
to urban transport: (a) Under the first component, an investment program
will be carried out to improve public bus services through enhanced
maintenance of the fleet and traffic management practices, to streamline
operations of the light rail system in Tunis, and to finance severance
payments to about 900 redundant employees of public bus companies. (Cost
US$39.0 million).(b)   The second component will support institutional
capacity building in management and regulatory matters at a decentralized
level which the urban transport reform needs to succeed. It includes
technical assistance to public bus companies and to the new local
management and regulatory structures, and training. It also funds urban
transport studies including one for preparation of bidding documents for
construction and extension of mass transit systems in the Greater Tunis
area. (Cost US$4.8 million).(c) The third component will raise the
productivity and cost efficiency of phosphate transport by rail through
the implementation of an investment program to modernize traffic
management systems and increase the infrastructure capacity in the
phosphate railway network, the strengthening of the autonomous business
unit in charge of that network and financing of redundancies generated by
the implementation of the modernization investments. (Cost US$20.6
million).
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 64.74
[Proposed Bank loan: Euro4l million]
6. Implementation
The implementation period will extend from June 2001 through October
-2 -



2005. The Project Management Unit (PMU) within the MOT would ensure
coordination of project related actions ("Direction generale de la
planification et des etudes" or DGPE) and manage the Special Account for
the project as it did satisfactorily under Phase I. A Project Agreement
will be signed with SNCFT, the designated executing agency for the railway
component. For the other entities benefiting from the project and
associated to its execution, namely SMLT, SNT, Soretras (in Sfax) and STS
(in Sousse), the plan is for them to sign a Protocole with the Minister of
Transport in which their responsibilities will be specified as well as
procedures to follow. These four companies will be the executing agencies
for investments in bus depots and workshops, development and installation
of operational and management systems as well as Technical Assistance
directed to their needs under the urban transport component.     The
Coordination Committee, appointed by the Minister of Transport in March
1999, will extend its responsibilities to Phase II of the APL. Comprised
of representatives from the ministries of Finance, International
Cooperation and Foreign Investment, Economic Development, Transport,
Environment and Land Development, this body oversees project
implementation, ensures compliance with the objectives set forth in the
Letter of Sector Policy, and adopts programs and investments prior to
their submission to the Bank.     Bi-annual Bank reviews will take place in
the field and a mid-term review will be organized in October 2003 to
evaluate project achievements against previously agreed targets and
specify measures that will have to be taken to achieve the project
development objectives.
7. Sustainability
The key to future sustainability is: (a) to implement a decentralized
organization that is more responsive to local urban transport needs with
good in-house technical and managerial capabilities; (b) set up a
compensation system that would both cover the costs of public service
obligations (PSO) and create incentives for public bus companies to
innovate and keep targeting productivity improvements; (c) help the
transport companies raise their level of performance through modernization
of their facilities and management methods; and (d) streamline railway
operations related to phosphate to cut transport costs and, in the
process, achieve financial sustainability of the railways.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Several lessons can be drawn from past projects in Tunisia.Projects
involving several ministries are more difficult to implement because they
call for strong coordination that can be undermined by differences in
roles assigned to each. With less involvement comes weaker project
ownership. Clarity in the definition of project objectives is critical,
as is a strong government commitment to meet those objectives, especially
for privatization.The introduction of private competition to a market
segment that was previously captive must be done in the context of a
broader privatization strategy. Doing it in isolation increases the risk
that the Government would eventually give in to pressures from incumbent
monopolies in favor of the status quo.Sector reforms, particularly
restructuring of public enterprises, cannot be improvised and consensus
seeking is a key condition of success. It requires good quality technical
assistance to cast light on issues and evaluate options. Such constraints
are best addressed in a program that takes a relatively long-term
perspective, providing an overall policy framework and implemented over
- 3 -



the course of several projects. What becomes essential is to have
monitorable benchmarks to ensure continuous progress toward institutional
objectives and sustain the initial government resolve to meet them. This
is why the APL instrument was used. The Contrat-Programme system can be
useful to improve performance of public enterprises that the government is
not yet ready to privatize (especially by performance targeting and strict
delineation of public service obligations assigned to them). For the
initial commitment to be sustained throughout implementaion, there should
be a continued dialogue and close monitoring of the impact of changing
conditions by all parties. Consistency between the expected budget
support and macroeconomic conditions, and proper integration of financial
and operational aspects at the preparation stage (lesson drawn from the
PERL) are vital for success.Finally, the importance of reaching agreements
with the labor unions should not be underestimated. Reforms leading to
redundancies should be combined with explicit measures to mitigate
negative social impacts.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  This project is the second phase of an APL and,
like the first phase, has a category B rating based on O.P. 4.01.
Investments that could conceivably bear adverse environmental impacts are
reviewed hereafter.l. The proposed bus depot at Bokri (in the Tunis
suburb). SNT has prepared an environmental impact assessment that was
approved by the Tunisian Environmental Protection Agency (TEPA). Besides
the technical approval of the Environmental Assessment (EA) report by the
TEPA, the National Land planning Commission has released in mid-June 2000
an order allowing abstraction of the land from the agricultural sector.
The site for the bus depot at Bokri used to be planted with some trees,
mainly olive. From an environmental point of view, uprooting of the olive
trees is of marginal importance as there is no biodiversity issue involved
in this case. The decree to transfer the land to SNT and authorize its
use for development of a bus depot and a workshop has been cleared by the
authorities in charge of the environment and is expected to be signed by
the Prime Minister before year end. The capacity of the bus company SNT
with regards to environmental good practice has been assessed positively
as the company strictly follows national wastewater discharge regulations
as enforced by the national sanitation agency and by TEPA.2. The proposed
bus depots in Sousse and Sfax. The two sites in Sfax and Sousse are
already the properties of the bus companies, respectively Soretras and
STS, both of them are located in industrial zones, and the bus companies
are already fully (Sousse) or partially (Sfax) operating from these
sites. Potential issues for these facilities are: (a) treatment and of
used engine and transmission oils; (b) management of the run-off
wastewater (for instance, from bus wash) and: c) management of the exhaust
gas quality. For each of the bus depots in Sfax and Sousse, an EIA has
been prepared and submitted both to the Tunisian Environment Agency and to
the Bank. The approbation from TEPA is pending.(3) Railway infrastructure
upgrading near Gafsa. The last sub-project considered for Bank financing
for which an environmental assessment is needed is the 4.2 km doubling of
the existing single-track railroad track section used for phosphate
transportation between Aguila and Gafsa as it entails some earthworks,
laying of tracks and installation of switching equipment, as well as the
reinforcing and widening of the existing bridge over Oued Bayech. The
- 4 -



company will prepare an EIA along with the technical studies for this
sub-component. Draft terms of reference have been reviewed and they will
be finalized with Bank assistance. Satisfactory conclusion of the EA study
constitutes a disbursement condition in the loan agreement. These
measures provide the Bank with sufficient assurances that the EA will be
carried out along Bank guidelines prior to commencement of railway works
and that these works will be executed in a manner consistent with the
requirements of OP4.01.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Michel A. Loir
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 3101
Fax: 202 477 1993
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending April 13, 2001.
- 5 -



