Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7051-TUN
Loan Agreement
(Transport Sector Project, Phase II)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 25, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7051-TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 25, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 27, 1998 from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to increase the cost 
effectiveness of transport services and their responsiveness to users’ needs while 
being less polluting, and a letter dated March 16, 2001 from Société Nationale des 
Chemins de Fer Tunisiens (SNCFT) describing the conditions and measures, agreed 
between the Borrower and SNCFT, under which phosphate railway transport will be 
rationalized and modernized  ("SNCFT Phosphate Transport Policy"), (both letters are 
hereafter collectively referred to as the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the said Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Bank’s support in the execution of the 
Program through a series of loans over a period of approximately seven (7) years to be 
utilized by the Borrower for, and assisting the appropriate entities in, implementing 
the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project) which forms 
part of the second phase of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(D)
the first phase of the Program has been supported by the Bank through a 
loan in an amount equal to two hundred twenty two million five hundred thousand French 
Francs (FRF 222,500,000) pursuant to a loan agreement (4358-TUN) dated June 29, 1998, 
between the Borrower and the Bank, and a project agreement of even date therewith 
between SNCFT and the Bank;
Page  2
(E)
Part C of the Project will be carried out by SNCFT with the Borrower’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make part of the 
proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available 
to SNCFT, as set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and SNCFT (the 
Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows:
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the 
Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Action Plan" means collectively, the action plans to be submitted by the 
Borrower to the Bank in accordance with Sections 6.01(a) and (b) of this Agreement, 
respectively;
(b)
"Allocation" means the budgetary allocations proposed to be made, on a 
grant basis, by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to SNCFT for the purposes 
of carrying out Part C of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.01(c) of this Agreement; 
(c)
"Central Bank of Tunisia" means the Borrower’s Central Bank (Banque 
Centrale de Tunisie) established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 
58-90 dated September 19, 1958, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(d)
"Coordinating Committee" means the coordinating committee (Comité de 
Coordination) established by the Borrower’s MOT (as this term is hereinafter defined) 
under the first phase of the Program; 
(e)
"CRB" means computer-assisted radio block;
(f)
"CTC" means the Borrower’s centralized traffic control system;
(g)
"DGPE" means the General Directorate for Planning and Studies (Direction 
Générale de la Planification et des Etudes) within the MOT (as this term is 
hereinafter defined);
(h)
"Eligibility Criteria" means the eligibility criteria applying to the 
selection of Sub-projects, requiring that any proposed Sub-project demonstrates, based 
on methods acceptable to the Bank that: (i) it meets the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (ii) it is technically sound and feasible; 
and (iii) it is economically and financially justified;
(i)
"Eligible Categories" means categories 1 through 5 set forth in the table 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  3
(j)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02(a) of this Agreement;
(k)
"Environmental Impact Assessment" means the environmental impact 
assessment, acceptable to the Bank, prepared by SNT (as this term is hereinafter 
defined), dated December 1997, by SORETRAS (as this term is hereinafter defined), 
dated September 23, 2000, and by STS (as this term is hereinafter defined) dated 
January 2001, and to be prepared and submitted to the Bank by SNCFT (as this term is 
hereinafter defined) pursuant to paragraph 3(c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
consisting of inter alia: (i) a description of the site where construction activities 
are to be carried out under Parts A and C of the Project and the justification for 
said activities; (ii) the actual or potential environmental impact of the construction 
activities referred to under sub-paragraph (i) above; and (iii) a management plan 
setting forth adequate mitigating measures and systems required to monitor the 
implementation of the construction activities referred to under sub-paragraph (i) 
above and to ensure compliance of such activities with said measures with a view to 
limiting any actual and potential adverse environmental impact;
(l)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 
31 in each calendar year; 
(m)
"MOT" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport (Ministère du Transport) 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 81-608 dated May 9, 
1981, as amended and completed, among others, by Decrees No.86-863 dated September 15, 
1986, No. 91-86 dated January 14, 1991, and No. 94-135 dated January 17, 1994, and as 
they may be further amended and completed from time to time;
(n)
"Performance Indicators" means the performance indicators, agreed between 
the Borrower, SNCFT and the Bank, set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be 
utilized by the Borrower, SNCFT and the Bank to measure the progress in the carrying 
out of the Project and the degree to which the objectives thereof are being achieved;
(o)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and SNCFT of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(p)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the plan, dated May 24, 2001, agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank, for the implementation of the Project, which, inter 
alia: (i) defines the respective roles and responsibilities for the implementation of 
the Project; (ii) sets forth the timetable of actions required under the Project; 
(iii) identifies the procedures to be used for monitoring and evaluating progress 
towards the achievement of the objectives of the Project; and (iv) details the 
financial management procedures for the Project, including, inter alia, the auditing, 
accounting and financial reporting arrangements for the Project; and all other 
relevant provisions, as reviewed periodically between the Borrower and the Bank;
(q)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(r)
"Project Management Unit" means the project management unit to be 
established by the Borrower within DGPE in accordance with paragraph 1, Section A of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(s)
"SMLT" means Société du Métro Léger de Tunis;
(t)
"SNT" means Société Nationale de Transport; 
(u)
"SNTRI" means Société Nationale des Transports Interurbains;
(v)
"SORETRAS" means Société Régionale de Transport du Gouvernorat de Sfax;
(w)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement; 
(x)
"SRTG" means Société Régionale de Transport;
(y)
"STAM" means Société Tunisienne d’Acconage et de Manutention; 
(z)
"Statutes" means the Borrower’s Law No. 98-90 dated November 6, 1998, 
pursuant to which SNCFT has been established and is operating as an industrial and 
Page  4
commercial public institution (établissement public à caractère industriel et 
commercial), as such Law may be amended and completed from time to time;
(aa)
"STS" means Société Nationale des Transports du Sahel; and
(bb)
"Sub-project" means any specific investment, acceptable to the Bank, to 
be made by SRTGs under Part A.4 of the Project in accordance with Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to SNCFT.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to forty one 
million Euros (EUR 41,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Euros a special account in the Central Bank of Tunisia on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to four hundred ten thousand Euros (EUR 410,000). The Borrower agrees that on or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
at the Variable Rate provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semi-annually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate 
Page  5
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 
2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium 
be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any 
premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall 
carry out Parts A and B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, engineering, environmental, 
financial, management, technical and transport practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts A 
and B of the Project; and (ii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause SNCFT to carry out Part C of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, commercial, economic, engineering, environmental, financial, 
management, railways, technical and transport practices, and shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SNCFT to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) 
carry out Parts A and B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and the provisions of the Project 
Implementation Plan pertaining to Parts A and B of the Project as well as the 
mitigating measures set forth in the Environmental Impact Assessment prepared by, 
respectively, SNT, SORETRAS and STS; and (ii) cause SNCFT to carry out Part C of the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement, the provisions of the Project Implementation Plan pertaining to 
Part C of the Project, the SNCFT Phosphate Transport Policy as well as the mitigating 
measures set forth in the Environmental Impact Assessment to be prepared by SNCFT.
(c)
For the purposes of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall make 
available to SNCFT, through Allocations, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time 
to time to Categories 1(b), 2(c); 2(d) and 3(b) of the table in Paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Page  6
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part C of the 
Project shall be carried out by  SNCFT pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. For purposes of Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure 
that any specific Sub-project meets the Eligibility Criteria and, to this end, shall 
provide the Bank for its approval of each proposed Sub-project, inter alia: (a) a 
description of activities to be carried out under each proposed Sub-project; and (b) 
evidence demonstrating the technical, engineering, economic and financial feasibility 
of each proposed Sub-project. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish not later than July 31, 2001, and 
thereafter at all times maintain, a financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to Parts A and 
B of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 
Page  7
2001, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare semi-annual Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Parts 
A and B of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of 
funds for Parts A and B of the Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; and (B) shows 
separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, 
physical progress in the implementation of Parts A and B of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and (B) explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Parts A and B of the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than January 31 and July 31 in each Fiscal 
Year, commencing on January 31, 2002, a semi-annual Project Management Report for such 
period.
Section 4.03. In order to achieve the objectives of Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall take all measures required on its part, including regulatory, 
institutional and capacity building measures, to, not later than December 31, 2002, 
enable the establishment of appropriate management and regulation mechanisms for urban 
transport in the Greater Tunis area, in accordance with the Action Plan referred to in 
Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all actions required on its part to 
implement the urban transport sector reform in accordance with the measures and 
timetable set forth in the Action Plan referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this 
Agreement.
Section 4.05 In order to achieve the objectives of Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall take all actions required on its part to ensure that, not later than 
December 31, 2002, all sub-contracts between public bus companies and private 
operators with respect to special services to be provided by the former to the latter 
have been entered into in accordance with guidelines agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 2002, submit to its 
Chamber of Representatives, a draft land transport law, in substance satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take all actions required on its part to 
implement the liberalization of interurban transport in accordance with the measures 
and timetable set forth in the Action Plan referred to in Section 6.01(a).
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 2003, launch a survey, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, aiming at verifying the social and 
employment status of staff as a result of the redundancy programs to be carried out by 
the bus companies and the phosphate railway unit of SNCFT and recommending adequate 
measures to mitigate the negative social impact of said programs, if any.
Section 4.09. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 2003, prepare and 
submit to the Bank for its review, a program setting forth the measures required, and 
the calendar thereof, to promote public transport and a comprehensive parking policy 
for the Greater Tunis area.
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 2003, take all measures 
required on its part to initiate the implementation of the program referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, taking into account the Bank’s recommendations on said 
program.
Page  8
Section 4.10. Commencing with its Fiscal Year after its Fiscal Year ending on 
December 31, 2000, the Borrower, in connection with the setting of those tariffs 
charged by, respectively, SNCFT, SNT, SMLT, SORETRAS and STS over which the Borrower 
exercises control and as long as it exercises such control, shall ensure that said 
tariffs shall be set in such a manner as to allow SNCFT to meet its financial 
obligations under the Project Agreement and SNT, SMLT, SORETRAS and STS to meet their 
respective financial obligations under each of the conventions referred to in Section 
6.01(c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
SNCFT shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that SNCFT will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SNCFT to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SNCFT, as the case may be, or 
for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has submitted to the Bank an Action Plan, satisfactory to 
the Bank,  to liberalize interurban passenger bus services, such Plan to set out, 
inter alia, the measures and timetable required to: (i) implement the liberalization 
of interurban transport; and (ii) restructure SNTRI; 
(b)
the Borrower has submitted to the Bank an Action Plan, satisfactory to 
the Bank, to reform the urban transport sector, such Plan to set out, inter alia: (i) 
the measures and timetable required to implement such reform; and (ii) the specific 
reform measures and timetable required for the Greater Tunis area; and
(c)
for purposes of Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower has entered 
into a convention, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, with, respectively, 
SMLT, SNT, SORETRAS and STS. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized by SNCFT and is legally binding upon SNCFT in accordance with its 
terms.
Page  9
Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and Foreign Investment 
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of International Cooperation and Foreign Investment
98, Avenue Mohamed V
1002 Tunis-Belvedere
Republic of Tunisia
Telex:
Facsimile:
18060
216-1-799-069
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ Hatem Atallah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle-East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  10
Amount of the
% of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Euros)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works:
70%
(a)
for Parts A.1 to A.4 
of the Project; and
10,570,000
(b)
for Part C.1 (a) 
of the Project
 3,810,000
(2)
Goods:
100% of foreign
expenditures, 
100% of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory costs);
and 80% of local 
expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally
(a)
for Part A of 
the Project;
 3,810,000
(b)
for Part B of 
the Project; 
   550,000
(c)
for Part C.1 
of the Project; and 
 1,000,000
(d)
for Part C.3 of 
the Project
 4,450,000
(3)
Consultants' Services:
100%
(a)
for Parts A and B 
of the Project; and
 1,530,000
(b)
for Part C of 
the Project
 1,090,000
(4)
Training
   550,000
100%
(5)
Severance Payments 
Under Part A.8 of the
 9,800,000
100%
Project
(6)
Fee
   410,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
 3,430,000
TOTAL
41,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Foreign Expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "Local Expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding four million 
one hundred thousand Euros (EUR 4,100,000) may be made in respect of Categories 1 
through 5 on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
January 31, 2001; and (b) expenditures under Categories 1(b) and 2(c) unless the 
Borrower shall have first prepared and submitted to the Bank an Environmental Impact 
Assessment in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  11
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for: (a) civil works under contracts not exceeding 
$500,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts not exceeding $350,000 equivalent 
each; (c) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for 
consulting firms; (d) services under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
each for individual consultants; (e) training under contracts not exceeding $50,000 
equivalent each; and (f) severance payments under Category 5 of the table in paragraph 
1 above, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to create an institutional framework to 
support sustainable growth of public transport in the Borrower’s major cities, and to 
enhance the profitability of railway operations in the phosphate sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Urban Transport
Implementation of a program designed to improve the performance of public bus 
companies, consisting of:
1.
Construction of a new bus depot for SNT in Tunis.
2.
Construction of a new bus depot for SORETRAS in Sfax.
3.
Construction of a new bus depot for STS in Sousse, including the construction of 
a paved parking area and a workshop for preventive maintenance activities, and the 
rehabilitation of existing workshops.
4.
Support to Sub-projects to be carried out by the various SRTGs, except for the 
Sfax and Sousse areas, aiming at: (a) the rehabilitation of workshops and garages; (b) 
the acquisition of maintenance equipment; and (c) the acquisition of computers and 
software. 
5.
Development and deployment of a traffic control system for SMLT including: (a) 
the provision of computer hardware and software to ensure control of any trainset in 
real time; (b) the establishment of a communication network linking each trainset with 
the CTC console; (c) the provision of on-board communication equipment; (d) the 
establishment of an information transmission protocol; (e) the creation of a public 
address system; and (f) training and technical assistance to SMLT staff.
6.
Design, implementation and monitoring of a suitable fare collection system for 
SMLT, including training of SMLT staff thereon.
7.
Upgrading of the maintenance capabilities of SMLT through: (a) the carrying out 
of a review of existing maintenance procedures; (b) the design of a program to improve 
maintenance operations; and (c) the acquisition of equipment and software.
8.
Implementation of a severance payment plan for redundant staff of SNT and SRTGs.
Part B:
Urban Transport Sector Management
Carrying out a program to improve the productivity and quality of service of 
public bus companies and building local planning, management and regulatory capacities 
in urban transport through:
1.
Provision of technical assistance and training to SRTGs to: (a) develop new 
management techniques and methods; (b) train senior personnel in the planning of 
services, fleet management, analytical accounting, communications with bus users and 
human resources management; and (c) acquire and operate computer hardware and 
software. 
2.
Provision of technical assistance for the preparation of: (a) bidding documents 
for new construction and extension of mass transit systems in the Greater Tunis area; 
and (b) transport master plans and traffic plans for pilot cities selected to 
Page  12
establish decentralized management and regulatory entities, other than Tunis, Sfax and 
Sousse. 
3.
Provision of technical assistance for the establishment of new urban transport 
entities in charge of urban transport management and regulation ("
autorités 
organisatrices” and “structures techniques des transports").
Part C:
Phosphate Railway Transport
Carrying out of a program aiming at ensuring financial sustainability of 
railways and increasing their rail transport capacity to accommodate the traffic 
increase induced by the medium term expansion of the phosphate industry, consisting 
of:
1.
Development of railway track capacity through: (a) the construction of tracks to 
double the existing section of approximately 4.2 km between Aguila and Gafsa; (b) the 
construction of a bridge over the Oued Bayech; (c) the installation of a CTC system on 
the Sfax-Metlaoui, Sfax-Gabès and Founi-El Hamada itineraries; (d) the establishment 
of a computer-assisted CRB system on the Gafsa-Gabès itinerary; and (e) the upgrade of 
the signaling and telecommunication systems needed to operate the systems referred to 
in (c) and (d), respectively.
2.
Implementation of a severance payment plan for redundant staff of the railway 
phosphate unit of SNCFT.
3.
Provision of goods and technical assistance to: (a) prepare engineering studies 
under Part C of the Project; (b) supervise the execution of works carried out under 
Part C of the Project; and (c) support the establishment of technical procedures and 
strengthen management and organizational capacities, including, inter alia, analytical 
accounting capacity, in the various divisions of the railway phosphate unit. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
May 15, 2001
November 15, 2001
May 15, 2002
November 15, 2002
May 15, 2003
November 15, 2003 
May 15, 2004
November 15, 2004 
May 15, 2005
7.50%
November 15, 2005
7.50%
May 15, 2006
7.50%
November 15, 2006
May 15, 2007
November 15, 2007 
May 15, 2008
7.50%
November 15, 2008
7.50%
May 15, 2009
November 15, 2009 
May 15, 2010
Page  13
November 15, 2010 
May 15, 2011
November 15, 2011 
May 15, 2012
7.50%
November 15, 2012
6.25%
May 15, 2013
7.50%
November 15, 2013
6.25%
May 15, 2014
5.00%
November 15, 2014
6.25%
May 15, 2015
5.00%
 
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
Page  14
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"; published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods for Parts A.6 and 
C.1(c), (d) and (e) of the Project, and works for Part C.1(b) of the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for goods under Parts A.6 and C.1(c), (d) and (e) of the Project shall 
be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract and goods 
estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  15
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $350,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Individual Consultants
Services to be carried out under Part B.1 of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
Page  16
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  17
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Section A:
Institutional Arrangements
1.
Project Coordination
(a)
The Borrower, through the Project Management Unit, shall have overall 
responsibility for the implementation of Parts A and B of the Project and for overall 
Project coordination. To this end, the Borrower shall establish, not later than July 
31, 2001, and thereafter maintain, a Project Management Unit with staff whose 
qualification and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 
(b)
In furtherance of paragraph (a) above, the Project Management Unit shall 
be vested specific responsibility for: (i) liaising with SNCFT, and timely planning 
and coordination of all Project activities; and (ii) acting as secretariat of the 
Coordinating Committee.
2.
Project Oversight
The Coordinating Committee shall ensure overall Project oversight. The 
Coordinating Committee shall be chaired by MOT and shall comprise representatives from 
the Borrower’s Ministries of Transport, Finance, International Cooperation and Foreign 
Investment, Environment and Balanced Land Development, and Economic Development. The 
Borrower shall cause the said Committee to meet on a semi-annual basis to review 
progress in the carrying out of the Project and the Program.
Section B:
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower, through the Project Management Unit, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about August 31, 2003, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on, inter alia: (i) the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report; (ii) the advancement of the urban 
transport sector reform, including, inter alia, capacity building in urban management 
and regulation; (iii) the advancement of the liberalization program for interurban 
transport; (iv) the advancement of the port reform, including the elimination of the 
dock workers and the STAM monopolies; and (v) the progress on the fulfillment of the 
actions referred to in the Program, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by October 31, 2003, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 5 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to EUR 
2,200,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
Page  18
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to EUR 1,100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of EUR 4,360,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
Page  19
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
