Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7051-TUN
Project Agreement
(Transport Sector Project, Phase II)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER TUNISIENS
Dated May 25, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7051-TUN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 25, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER TUNISIENS (SNCFT).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of 
Tunisia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an 
amount equal to forty one million Euros (EUR 41,000,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that SNCFT agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
a portion of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be made available to SNCFT on terms and conditions set forth in said 
Loan Agreement to assist SNCFT to carry out Part C of the Project; and
WHEREAS SNCFT, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following 
additional term has the following meaning: 
Page  2
"Mid-Term Review Report" means the mid-term review report to be prepared by 
SNCFT, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and to be furnished to the 
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of the Schedule to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part C of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SNCFT declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, commercial, economic, engineering, environmental, 
financial,  management, railways, technical and transport practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for Part C of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and SNCFT shall otherwise agree, SNCFT shall carry out Part C 
of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule 
to this Agreement, the provisions of the Project Implementation Plan pertaining to 
Part C of the Project and the SNCFT Phosphate Transport Policy as well as the 
mitigating measures set forth in the Environmental Impact Assessment to be prepared by 
SNCFT.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part C of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) SNCFT shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Part C of the Project.
(b)
SNCFT shall prepare and provide to the Borrower its contribution to the 
plan referred to in Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement, with respect to Part C of the 
Project.
Section 2.04. (a) SNCFT shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of Part C of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan and the Allocation.
(b)
SNCFT shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Part C of the Project, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan and the Allocation, or the performance by SNCFT of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
Page  3
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SNCFT
Section 3.01. SNCFT shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, commercial, economic, engineering, 
environmental, financial, management, railways, technical and transport practices, 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SNCFT shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
economic, commercial, engineering, financial, management, railways and technical 
practices.
Section 3.03. SNCFT shall make provision satisfactory to the Bank to insure 
itself against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SNCFT shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect 
its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to Part C of the Project.
(b)
SNCFT shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors,  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, SNCFT shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than January 31 and July 31 of each Fiscal year, 
commencing on January 31, 2002, a semi-annual Project Management Report for such 
period, which:
(a)
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Part C of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for Part C of the Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report, and (ii) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describes, in accordance with the Performance Indicators and the 
SNCFT Phosphate Transport Policy, physical progress in the implementation of Part C of 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (ii) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
Page  4
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under Part C of the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
Section 4.03. SNCFT shall take all measures required on its part to, not later 
than December 31, 2004, and in consultation with its clients in the phosphate 
industry, adopt a transport tariff covering operating costs, depreciation of motive 
power and rolling stock on a replacement basis, railway infrastructure maintenance 
costs and other financing charges borne by SNCFT.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of SNCFT 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify SNCFT thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For SNCFT:
Société Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens
67 Avenue Farhat Hached
1000 Tunis
Republic of Tunisia
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
SONAFERTU
216-1-348-540
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SNCFT may be 
taken or executed by its President General Director or such other person or persons as 
SNCFT shall designate in writing, and SNCFT shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER
  TUNISIENS
By /s/ Hatem Atallah
Authorized Representative
Page  6
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
1.
Quarterly statistical reports
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, SNCFT shall, commencing on June 1, 2001, and not later than the twentieth 
(20th) day of each quarter in each Fiscal Year and until Project Completion, prepare 
and furnish to the Bank a quarterly report, under a format as the Bank shall 
reasonably establish, describing monthly statistics of the preceding quarter on 
traffic, motive power and rolling stock performance, infrastructure management, human 
resources and financial performance of SNCFT’s operations.
2.
Mid-Term Review
SNCFT shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators and the 
SNCFT Phosphate Transport Policy, the carrying out of Part C of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Borrower, on or about August 31, 2003, a 
Mid-Term Review Report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on, inter alia: (i) 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part C of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said Report; and (ii) the progress on the fulfillment of the 
actions referred to in the SNCFT Phosphate Transport Policy, and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part C of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date, said 
Report to be incorporated in the report referred to in Section B of Schedule 5 to the 
Loan Agreement; and
(c)
review with the Bank and the Borrower, by October 31, 2003, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the Mid-Term Review Report referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of Part C of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said Report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter.
