                                     Document of
                               The World Bank


                                                   Report No: ICR00001335



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                 (IBRD-70510)



                                      ON AN

                        ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN

                               SECOND PHASE



                     IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR41 MILLION
                       (US$37.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                      FOR A

                TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT

                                 April 28, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East North Africa Region
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         (Exchange Rate Effective April 1, 2010)
                          Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (DT)
                                   DT1 = US$0.074
                                    US$1 = DT1.35

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 to December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD     Agence Française de Développement               ICB        International Competitive Bidding
APL     Adaptable Program Loan                          LRT        Light Rail Transit
BRT     Bus Rapid Transit                               MOT        Ministry of Transport
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                     NGO        Non Governmental Organization
CPG     Compagnie des Phosphates de Gafsa               NPV        Net Present Value
CP      Contrat-Programme (Performance Contract)        PC         Performance Contract
CR      Conseil de Région                               PAD        Project Appraisal Document
CRB     Computer-Assisted Radio Block                   PIP        Project Implementation Plan
CSM     Commission Supérieure des Marchés               ICR        Implementation Completion Report
CTC     Centralized Traffic Control system              PMRs       Project Management Reports
DESAF   Direction des Etudes Sectorielles et de         PMU        Project Management Unlit
        l'Analyse Financière
DGPE    Direction Générale de la Planification et des   PSOs       Public Service Obligations
        Etudes
DO      Development Objective                           PMT        Public Transport Entreprises
EA      Environmental Assessment                        RFR        Réseau Ferroviaire Rapide
EIA     Environmental Impact Analysis                   SA         Special Account
EIB     European Investment Bank                        SBD        Standard Bidding Documents
EMP     Environmental Management Plan                   SMLT       Société du Métro Léger de Tunis
ERR     Economic Rate of Return                         SNCFT      Société Nationale des Chemins de Fer
                                                                   Tunisiens
FMPM    Financial Management Procedures Manual          SNT        Société Nationale de Transport
FMS     Financial Management Systems                    SNTRI      Société Nationale des Transports
                                                                   Intergouvernorats
FRR     Financial Rate of Return                        STT        Société des Transports de Tunis
FS      Financial Statements                            SOE        Statement of Expenditures
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                          SORETRAS   Société Régionale de Transports du
                                                                   Gouvernorat de Sfax
GOT     Government of Tunisia                           SRTG       Société Régionale de Transports de
                                                                   Gouvernorat
KFW     Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau                  STS        Société des Transports du Sahel (Sousse)
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and       TA         Technical Assistance
        Development
                                                        TOR        Terms of Reference

                              Vice President: Shamshad Akhtar
                            Country Director: Françoise Clottes
                             Sector Manager: Jonathan Walters
                        Project Team Leader: Michel Bellier
                           ICR Team Leader: Michel Bellier
                                           Republic of Tunisia
                                    Transport Sector Investment Project




                                                       CONTENTS




Data Sheet


  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Results Framework Analysis
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
  H. Restructurings (if any)
  I. Disbursement Profile

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .............................................. 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................................ 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 27
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 35
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 36
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results .................................................. 37
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 38
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents...................................................................... 41
  MAP ............................................................................................................................. 42
A. Basic Information
                                                                          TN-Transport Sector
Country:                Tunisia                 Project Name:
                                                                          Project II
Project ID:             P064082                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-70510
ICR Date:               05/03/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                          TUNISIA
Original Total
                        USD 37.6M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 38.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 33.3M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Transport
 SNCFT
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/02/2000     Effectiveness:            03/27/2002         03/27/2002
Appraisal:            11/20/2000     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             04/19/2001     Mid-term Review:                             01/10/2004
                                     Closing:                  06/30/2006         10/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           No                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           Yes                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     3                     3
General transportation sector                                        52                  52
Railways                                                             30                  30
Sub-national government administration                               15                  15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                 33                  33
Municipal governance and institution building                        34                  34
Other urban development                                              33                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Shamshad Akhtar                     Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:          Francoise Clottes                   Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:            Jonathan D. Walters                 G. George Tharakan
Project Team Leader:       Michel Bellier                      Michel A. Loir
ICR Team Leader:           Michel Bellier
ICR Primary Author:        Yves A. Duvivier


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the Project are to create an institutional framework to support
sustainable growth of public transport in the Borrower's major cities, and to enhance the
profitability of railway operations in the phosphate sector.




                                                 ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target       Formally          Actual Value
                                               Values (from          Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval            Target         Completion or
                                                documents)            Values          Target Years
                A - Public transport share of total motorized trips;
Indicator 1 : B - Share of bus-rail transfers in combined traffic in Tunis;
                C - SMLT share of public transport.
Value           A - 50 %                    A - 50%              A - 50%          A - 32.8%
quantitative or B- circ 3 %                 B - 10 %             B - 8.52%        B - 8.37%
Qualitative)    C - 18 %                    C - 20 %             C - 20%          C - 22.7%
Date achieved 06/30/2002                    12/31/2005           12/31/2008       12/31/2009
Comments        Actual public transport share of total motorized trips fell short of the objective. It
(incl. %        depends upon the ridership of buses which has been affected by the high use of
achievement) private cars, traffic congestion, and SNT's difficulties in renewing bus fleet.
                GOT subsidies in % total operating costs for (A) SNT and (B) SRTGs on
Indicator 2 :
                average.
Value
                A - 35 %                    A - 30 %             A - 27.82%       A - 33.4%
quantitative or
                B - 40 %                    B - >30 %            B - <30%         B -<30%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                    12/31/2005           12/31/2008       12/31/2009
                For SNT, the actual share of subsidies in operating costs (SNT) was broadly in
Comments
                line with the objective, but this hides the fact that the company is posting an
(incl. %
                important deficit and subsidies should be significantly higher to balance
achievement)
                accounts.
                Share of bus-km subcontracted by the bus public operator (A) in the greater
Indicator 3 :
                Tunis area by SNT; (B) by SRTG on average.
Value
                A-0%                        A- 5 %               A -3.5%          A - 7.1%
quantitative or
                B-0%                        B- 10 %              B - 0%           B - 0%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                    12/31/2005           12/31/2008       12/31/2009
                In Tunis, the actual share of urban transport services subcontracted to private
Comments
                operators is higher than the objective. It is nil in regional cities served by
(incl. %
                SRTGs, since the Ministry of Transport has not open urban transport to private
achievement)
                sector.
                Traffic in the phosphate network in million tons: (a) rock phosphate; (b)
Indicator 4 :
                fertilizer/sulphur.
Value
                (a) 8                       (a) -10              (a) -7.88        (a) - 6.11
quantitative or
                (b) 1                       (b) -1.3             (b) -1.27        (b) - 1.25
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                    12/31/2008           12/21/2008       12/31/2009
Comments        The drop in phosphate transport in 2009 was among others due to the worldwide
(incl. %        economic crisis which significantly affected exports of phosphate by the
achievement) Compagnie des Phosphat the Compagnie des Phosphates de Gaza and not to



                                                  iii
                transport problems.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                                Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                   approval                        Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                 documents)                         Target Years
                A - Severance payment: number of beneficiaries at SNT and SRTGs.
Indicator 1 :
                B - Number of riders/bus staff for (a) SNT, (b) STS, (c) Soretras
                A-0                          A - 907            A - 907          A - 1271
Value
                B - (a) 73                   B - (a) 80         B - (a) 57.42 B - (a) 74.6
(quantitative
                   (b) 60                       (b) 76             (b) 76           (b) 87.2
or Qualitative)
                   (c) 46                       (c) 60             (c) 60           (c) 48
Date achieved 06/30/2002                     12/31/2005         12/31/2008       12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Bus companies have reduced staff more than planned (140 percent).
achievement)
                A - Fleet availability rates for: (a) SNT; (b) STS; (c) Soretras
Indicator 2 : B - 1,000 km traveled/bus/yea for: (a) SNT; (b) STS; (c) Soretras
                C - SMLT: km/trainsets/year
                A - (a) 89 %                 A - (a) 91%        A - (a) 90% A - (a) 80.23%
                   (b) 79 %                     (b) 88%            (b) 88%          (b) 78%
Value              (c) 90%                      (c) 93%            (c) 83%           (c) 68%
(quantitative   B - (a) 60                   B - (a) 65         B - (a) 50.36 B - (a) 43.7
or Qualitative)    (b) 68                       (b) 76             (b) 65           (b) 62
                   (c) 50                       (c) 60             (c) 40            (c) 68
                C - 45,000                   C - >54,500        C - >50,000 C - 46,600
Date achieved 06/30/2002                     12/31/2005         12/31/2008       12/31/2009
                Delayed acquisition of buses has affected the availability rate in Tunis (89
Comments
                percent of the objective) and other cities (82 to 89 percent), thereby the number
(incl. %
                of km travelled by bus and by year, since the older fleet requires more
achievement)
                maintenance.
Indicator 3 : Staff working in the phosphate railway network.
Value
(quantitative   1,750                        <1,500             <1,500           1,136
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2004                     12/31/2005         12/31/2008       12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        SNCFT has exceeded the staff reduction objective in phosphate operations.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Railway cost/ton/km for rock phosphate transport (in DT at 2000 prices).
Value
(quantitative   0.024                        0.018              0.018            0.02
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                     12/31/2005         12/21/2008       12/31/2009
Comments        SNCFT has been able to reduce the cost of phosphate transport, although not as
(incl. %        much as planned.



                                                iv
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
No.                          DO                             IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1    06/01/2001       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    11/29/2001       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  3    05/15/2002       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  4    10/28/2002       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.36
  5    04/16/2003       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   12.01
  6    07/15/2003       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   12.01
  7    12/31/2003       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   12.62
  8    02/19/2004       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   12.62
  9    09/09/2004       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   14.29
 10    03/29/2005       Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            15.00
 11    11/11/2005   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            16.99
 12    05/26/2006   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            18.68
 13    12/21/2006   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            22.15
 14    06/16/2007   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            24.67
 15    12/18/2007   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            26.86
 16    06/27/2008   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            28.13
                                                       Moderately
 17    12/19/2008   Moderately Satisfactory                                          31.89
                                                     Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                    Moderately
 18    04/14/2009                                                                    32.71
                        Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                    Moderately
 19    11/13/2009                                                                    38.07
                        Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Since the nineties, Tunisia has been pursuing an ambitious development strategy based on an
early commitment to structural reforms, steady investments in human capital and infrastructure,
pro-active macroeconomic management and a focus on global trade integration with the
accompanying needed market reforms. Tunisia thereby succeeded in achieving sustained and
equitable economic growth at an average rate of 5 percent. This growth has been strongly driven
by increasing integration into the global economy, attracting FDI which lead to the creation of
export industries (such as textiles, clothing, mechanical and electrical engineering sector)
complementing the traditional agriculture and phosphate exports, and by the tourism sector. The
pervasive challenge for Tunisia is to continue the structural transformation of its economy to
increase productivity and create a sufficient number of jobs and increasingly so skilled jobs.
Better and cheaper transport is essential in this context.

After independence, the Government transport policy favored central planning and a large public
sector. The turning point came in the nineties with a general move toward market-oriented
policies with measures - such as liberalization, then privatization of trucking - designed to
increase private sector participation in transport, exemplifying this commitment to reforms. Joint
work carried out by a Bank team and the Tunisian administration to draft a Transport Strategy in
1995, led to the preparation of a Transport Sector Project to help implement that strategy. Bank
assistance was to be provided in the form of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), with program
phasing dictated by differences in the speed at which reforms would mature.

The program supported by the APL focused on essential reforms and modernization investments
needed in the 1998-2005 period to eliminate main infrastructure bottlenecks to faster growth and
to bring local living standards up to those prevailing in the southern part of the European Union.
The program embodied also longer-term reforms. The objectives of the program were to (a)
increase the efficiency and quality of transport services by expanding and modernizing transport
equipment, introducing a market framework conducive to competitive delivery, and ensuring that
the environmental impact of transport activities is reduced; and (b) reduce the financial burden of
the transport sector on the Government's budget by increasing the participation of the private
sector in transport investment and service delivery, and by improving the performance of the
remaining public enterprises.

The first1 phase of the APL (1998-2005) focused on the port and railway subsectors and on
strengthening the overall transport sector management. It included reorganizing the ports and
railway sectors, rehabilitating and modernizing port and rail infrastructure, and building capacity
to manage the sector. It mostly aimed at commercializing the railway parastatal, Société
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens (SNCFT) and making it financially autonomous through
a combination of institutional changes for higher operational efficiency (implementation of an
organization along four business lines, tariff adjustments and transparent compensation for the
public service obligations imposed by the Government). Phase 1 was closed on 12/31/2005 after
a three-year extension. Its implementation completion report2 (ICR) rated outcome as satisfactory,
1
    Described, in a Policy Letter dated May 27, 1998, Annex 1c of report 17930-TUN of June 3, 1998 ­ PAD of the Phase 1 of the APL.

2
    Report 34746 of June 26, 2006.




                                                                 1
sustainability as high, and institutional development impact as substantial. Targets on a number of
key performance indicators were met (for example 55 percent of private sector share in transport
investments (target > 50 percent) in 2005). However, progress was less satisfactory on railways
which were to become more financially sustainable (49 percent subsidies of operational revenue
which is nearly the objective threshold < 50 in 2005) and overall transport subsidies (1.1 percent
instead of 0.2 percent of GDP in 2005).

Two years after the implementation of Phase I and despite early delays caused by underestimated
technical and political issues, the program was considered to have reached the most critical
milestones to meeting the development objectives and opening the way for phase II in 2001.
There were still gaps to be addressed in some areas but the Government renewed and
strengthened its initial commitment through detailed and time-bound action plans.

Whereas Phase I encompassed four dimensions (streamlining public sector management,
promoting privatization activities, upgrading trade related services, reducing the budget deficit
and improving environmental management), Phase II was more narrowly focused on improving
public sector management by utilizing tight budget resources more effectively, addressing labor
redundancies, and providing enhanced public transport services, by identifying means to
effectively curb growth of private cars use and reducing traffic congestion and associated
pollution. Phase II also focused on freight rail services with measures to remove transport
bottlenecks and increase the production as well as export of phosphate, which was expected to
bolster long-term development prospects. Finally, because urban transport and railways were
receiving about 90 percent of all Government subsidies to transport, lowering transport costs in
these two subsectors was considered critical to significantly reduce the level of subsidies needed
and strengthen the prospects for future economic growth in Tunisia.

Investments supported by Bank loans in both phases were to be limited (less than 10 percent of
total transport sector investments included in the Government's Ninth Plan (1997-2001)). The
limited amount of Bank's involvement in investment, coupled with the level of severance
payments included in program lending (31 percent of combined loans) underscores the basic
objectives of the program, namely institution building, seeking appropriate reforms for the sector,
and support to sustainable growth of public transport companies in major cities through
organization streamlining and capacity or efficiency investments.

The project supported the Tunisia CAS priorities and its key macroeconomic and trade objectives
by seeking to improve public sector management, address labor redundancies, provide enhanced
public transport services, improve performance and profitability of phosphate railways transport,
a core freight activities for Tunisian railways. Lowering urban and railways transport costs was
also expected to reduce Government subsidies and strengthen the prospects for future economic
growth in Tunisia.

The Bank's support to the second phase of the APL was justified by the achievement of key
milestones agreed upon when preparing the first phase, the Bank expertise in urban transport and
railways, its large experience in transport sector reform, and its capacity to provide strategic
guidance on private sector participation in transport. An adjustment operation had been envisaged
but was rejected when preparing the first phase, as the time required to effect the agreed reforms
under the whole programs would have been longer than the implementation period of the
expected fast disbursement schedule. In addition, the planned reforms were requiring investment
and institutional support in an integrated way, and an APL would provide the Bank with the
opportunity to assist the transport sector over a longer period and in a more flexible way.



                                                2
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project objectives stated in the Loan Agreement were to create an institutional framework to
support sustainable growth of public transport in the Borrower's major cities, and to enhance the
profitability of railway operations in the phosphate sector.

The Project Appraisal Document defined those objectives in a somewhat different and more
detailed way as follows:

Urban transport
Create an institutional framework supporting sustainable growth of public transport in major
cities. This goal will require good urban transport planning within the broader urban development
framework; good coordination of all transport modes to maximize their cost effectiveness; a
stable funding system to cover costs of public service obligations; improved quality of services at
affordable costs through better management of public companies and subcontracting of some of
their services to private transporters.

Phosphate railway transport
Through marginal infrastructure development, deployment of modern telecommunications and
signaling systems, and enhanced management capabilities, Société Nationale des Chemins de Fer
Tunisiens (SNCFT) is expected to provide the phosphate industry with better services and
increase its profit margin, a key step toward its overall financial sustainability.

The following key performance indicators were agreed upon:

Urban transport objective (a): These three indicators relate to Tunis where urban transport issues
are most acute.
* Public transport share of total motorized trips:
50% in 2000
50% in 2005
* Share of bus-rail transfers in combined traffic:
<5% in 2000
>10% in 2005
* Occupancy rate of buses at peak/hour:
>10 riders/sqm in 2000
<8 riders/sqm in 2005

Urban transport objective (b):
* Subsidies in percent of total operating costs for Société Nationale de Transport (SNT),
assuming creation of local sources of financing:
>35% in 2000 (including the deficit)
<30% in 2005
*Subsidies in percent of total operating costs for Société Régionale de Transports de Gouvernorat
(SRTG) combined (assuming creation of local sources of financing):
40% in 2000
<30% in 2005
(compensation for reduced fares and more generally public service obligations if introduced is
included in the subsidies).

Urban transport objective (c):
* share of bus-km subcontracted by the bus public operator in the greater Tunis area:
>3% in 2003


                                                     3
>5% in 2005
* share of bus-km subcontracted by the SRTG's:
> 5% in 2003
>10% in 2005

Phosphate rail transport (d):
* rock phosphate traffic: 10 million tons (MT) in 2005 (base value: 8 MT)
* fertilizer and sulphur traffic: 1.3 MT in 2005 (base value: 1 MT)
* phosphate transport cost: minus 25% (base value: Tunisian Dinar 0,024 per ton).

In addition, several provisions of the Loan Agreement established milestones towards the
achievement of project objectives, among others the following: (i) the submission of a draft
transport law to the Chamber of Representatives by December 31, 2002; (ii) the taking by the
Borrower of all measures, by the same date, to enable the establishment of appropriate
management and regulation mechanisms for urban transport in the Greater Tunis area; (iii) the
taking by the Borrower of all actions to ensure that by the same date, all sub-contracts between
public bus companies and private operators, with respect to special services, have been entered
into; (iv) commencing with year 2001, the Borrower shall ensure that tariffs of SNCFT, SMLT,
SNT, SORETRAS and STS are set in such a manner to allow them to meet their financial
obligations under conventions they should have entered into with the Borrower.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Not applicable

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Three groups of direct beneficiaries under the urban transport component were: (i) the public
transport enterprises (SNT, SMLT, and SRTGs) which would be able to earn profits and invest in
response to market needs; (ii) the Government, and hence the tax payers, who would no longer
subsidize operational inefficiencies and bear, every five years or so, financial restructurings to
protect the public bus companies from bankruptcy; and (iii) the users, as beneficiaries of more
reliable and comfortable, and yet affordable, urban transport services.

The project was also expected over the long-term to help stabilize the share of public transport
services provided by public sector entities within cities. The ever increasing need for larger road
infrastructure investments (overpasses and tunnels) that would be required if the growth of
private vehicles were left unchecked would thus be deferred or partially avoided. In addition, air
quality was expected to improve by curbing pollution from the explosive growth of private cars in
city traffic, benefiting thus the steadily increasing urban population.

Under the railway component, benefits would accrue to: (i) the phosphate industry, which would
be able to mine, process and export phosphate in greater quantities once current capacity
bottlenecks are removed; (ii) the Tunisian economy and thus the population at large through
phosphate mining and transformation activities and higher exports revenues; (iii) the Government
and the tax payers, since the cost savings in rail transport of phosphate rock and its derivates
would reduce SNCFT's need for national budget support; and (iv) SNCFT, which would enhance
its profitability by cutting operating costs.




                                                4
1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project consisted of three components: (i) the urban transport component with an investment
program for public bus services and the light rail system in Tunis, urban transport services in
secondary cities, and severance payments to redundant employees of public bus companies; (ii)
the phosphate railway transport component with an investment program, the strengthening of the
corresponding business unit of SNCFT and the financing of redundancies; and (iii) a sector
management component with institutional capacity building at decentralized level, technical
assistance to public bus companies, and studies for the preparation of the construction and
extension of mass transit systems in the Greater Tunis area.

Component 1. Urban transport (US$36.2 million)

The objective of this component was to raise the performance of public bus companies by
providing them with adequately sized depots and better workshops, to help the light rail system in
Tunis (SMLT) optimize its operations, to strengthen its maintenance capabilities and reduce the
revenue shortfall from an increasing number of free rides, reduced tariffs (school children and
students), and fraud by setting up better collection systems. Planned investments and studies
included the following: (i) a new bus depot for the public bus company of SNT at Bokri in Tunis;
(ii) a new bus depot for SORETRAS in Sfax; (iii) a new bus depot for STS in Sousse; (iv)
modernization of bus depots in other main cities; (v) development and deployment of a traffic
control system for SMLT (local financing of works); (vi) definition and implementation of a fare
collection system for SMLT (local financing of studies); (vi) a study on the upgrading of SMLT
maintenance capabilities; and (vii) severance program for SNT and several regional transport bus
companies (about 900 people), and SNCFT phosphate network.

Component 2. Modernization and Streamlining of Phosphate railway transport (US$17.4
million)

The objective of this component is to improve the financial sustainability of SNCFT without
having to raise unduly the phosphate railway tariff paid by the concerned phosphate mining
Compagnie des Phosphates de Gafsa (CPG) and to increase the rail transport capacity to
accommodate the larger traffic induced by the medium-term expansion of the phosphate industry.
Productivity increases were expected to be achieved by: (i) enhancing track capacity and
decreasing operating costs by doubling the existing track section over the 4.2 km section between
Aguila and Gafsa (including the bridge over the Oued Bayech), installing a Centralized Traffic
Control system (CTC) on several itineraries, setting up a Computer-assisted Radio Block (CRB)
on the Gafsa-Gabes itinerary, and upgrading the needed signaling and telecommunications
systems; (ii) offering severance payment to implement a progressive reduction of about 660 staff
(local financing); and (iii) providing technical assistance for the development of structures and
procedures needed by the phosphate business unit, and consulting services together with detailed
engineering studies of project investments, control of works, and set up of the CRB, and training.

Component 3. Sector Management (US$3 million)

Following up on the building capacity efforts within the Ministry of Transport under Phase 1, this
component comprised specific pilot projects, studies and training activities for local capacity
building in urban transport planning, management and regulation and provided technical
assistance (TA) and training to the staff of the bus companies, towards improving their
productivity. It consists of: (i) TA to bus companies including SNT in Tunis, SORETRAS in Sfax
and STS in Sousse, to develop new management techniques and methods, train personnel in


                                                5
planning of services, fleet management, analytical accounting, communications with bus users
and human resources management, and computer hardware and software; (ii) consulting services
to prepare bidding documents for new construction and extension of mass transit systems (e.g.
rapid rail system, light rail system, and intermodal stations) in the Greater Tunis to be
implemented during the Tenth Plan 2002-2006 (local financing), and transport master plans and
traffic plans for selected cities; and (iii) assistance to set up and develop the new urban transport
entities (autorités organisatrices and structures techniques des transports), the new institutions
expected to be in charge of urban transport management and regulation at the regional level.

An important issue identified during implementation was the lack of direct impact of these
initiatives on the sector reform in urban transport, which was to be materialized by a new
transport law and the sustainable growth of public transport in major cities. It meant that the
achievement of the PDOs was very much dependent upon Government's initiatives which were
out of the scope of the project, and general policy changes in the urban transport sector.

1.6 Revised Components

A few changes in the scope of the second and third components were introduced during
implementation at the request of the Borrower as follows:

    ·   Second component on phosphate railways: cancellation of most of the TA activities to
        increase financing of investments.
    ·   Third component on sector management: loan financing of the design studies for the
        Greater Tunis Réseau Ferré Rapide (RFR), local financing of the master plan and traffic
        management plans in several cities, and addition of a study on student transport financed
        by the Loan.

1.7 Other significant changes

In 2002 the Government decided to merge the Tunis SNT and SMLT into one new company
Société des Transports de Tunis (STT ­ TRANSTU). This initiative turned out to be the right step
to enhance the coordination between the two modes as a means to provide a more comprehensive
response to transport needs in Tunis, and possibly capture organizational and operational
efficiency gains. It also allowed expanding the scope of studies, initially designed to meet
SMLT's needs, to include those of SNT. However, no specific objectives for productivity gains
were set up upfront and the complex process of effectively merging the two entities required
much efforts and even more time ­ five years- to a point that the benefits were late to materialize.
Harmonizing the two different corporate structures and eliminating duplication in the structures
did not go without tension among staff. The merger is likely to have also contributed to delays in
procurement under the project.

By the end of 2004, it was clear that the implementation of several investment subcomponents
encountered delays and could not be finalized by the original project closing date of June 30,
2006. Given the measures already taken by the Borrower and the implementing agencies to
address delays, the subsequent supervision missions concluded that an extension would have
contributed to achieve the Project Development Objectives (PDO) significantly. The Bank thus
agreed to the Borrower's request of November 2, 2005 to extend the closing date of the Loan.
The closing date was extended to June 30, 2009, with a partial reallocation of the loan proceeds,
an increase in the amounts allocated to civil works and supply of equipment and a reduction in
the financing of consultant services. New target values for key performance indicators were set



                                                 6
for 2008, albeit at levels no more ambitious than the original ones for 2006. Since these changes
were not expected to affect the PDOs as they were mostly technical, the Loan reallocation was
approved by the Country Director.

By early 2008, it appeared that additional delays in the implementation of a few subcomponents ­
particularly the installation of the metro/bus fare collection system and metro traffic control
system, would not be completed by the new closing date, suggesting the need for a new
extension. Some cost overruns were also expected, whereby additional financing would be
required from other sources. The Government did not, however, request another extension nor did
it request supplementary IBRD financing, but asked for a partial reallocation and cancellation of
the Loan and committed to provide the additional funds mainly from its own budget, the African
Development Bank and possibly other Donors. Consequently, Euro 4.72 million of the Loan
amount were cancelled. Finally, by June 2009, the Government requested another small
extension of the closing date to allow full payment of ongoing contracts for IT systems
(acquisition of computer hardware and software) for the SRTGs. That date was thus extended to
October 31, 2009.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

This Transport Sector Project was one of the early Bank's APLs. The overall program was
designed with the paramount objective to support the transition from State dominance in both
transport planning and service delivery, to private sector participation within an institutional
framework where market-based policy decisions and regulations provide effective direction and
safeguards. The program aimed at addressing issues at the root of many transport inefficiencies:
lack of competition combined with monopolistic services delivery by public enterprises, generally
poor performance and weak governance of the latter with too many and conflicting Government
imposed mandates, resulting in excess costs and financial imbalances. Addressing these issues
was critical for increasing the international competitiveness of Tunisia, as the country was
starting to meet the challenge of integration in global trade with the accompanying market
reforms.

The design of the overall project was based on the 1995 transport strategy developed through
joint collaboration with the Tunisian administration and the Bank for the preparation of the Ninth
Plan (1997-2001). It benefitted from the experience of three earlier Bank-financed operations3
involving transport (other than road projects). The main recommendations of the strategy were
endorsed by GOT in 1996 and their implementation started under the Economic Competitiveness
Adjustment Loan (ECAL). Key reforms for the railways and the port and maritime sectors had
progressed with new laws approved in 1998 and 1999. The dialogue between the Government
and the Bank on transport issues, during that period, led to the preparation of a blueprint urban
transport reform and the orientations for a new land transport law that were approved at a
Government Interdepartmental Committee meeting in April 2000. The Government wanted to
take advantage of the momentum created by the approval of this urban transport reform plan and
viewed the TA components for urban transport as essential to implement the reform. The
Government thus requested an earlier timing for the Phase II of the APL with this TA. Likewise,
investments for the urban transport companies considered for financing under the project, were


3
    Public Enterprise Reform Loan, Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan, and Export development project.



                                                                7
assessed as quite urgent: for example, the lack of adequate maintenance facilities for the buses
was having a severe impact on their operational performance.

Several lessons were drawn from past projects as explained in the PAD, mostly with respect to
sector reform including restructuring of public enterprises: taking a relatively long-term
perspective by providing an overall policy framework and sequential projects, and having
measurable benchmarks to ensure continuous progress toward institutional objectives and sustain
the initial government's resolve to meet them. This APL instrument appeared particularly well
suited. Project alternatives had already been discussed prior to Phase 1 negotiations. Traditional
investments lending to the transport companies was felt not to properly address deeply rooted
regulatory issues and the lack of decentralized/specialized urban transport authorities.

The Government requested in July 2000 the inclusion of a railways component into Phase 2, as
investments to modernize the phosphate railway transport network were urgently needed to make
the railways financially viable4 without burdening the phosphate industry with unduly high
tariffs. The phosphate industry is a key pillar of the Tunisian economy, generating 10 to 15
percent of the country's export earnings and can hardly afford to bear the excess cost of railway
inefficiencies. The Government was generally reluctant to force a tariff increase, while being at
the same time fully aware of the impact of tariff freezes on the railways' finances. As the
phosphate activity is strategic for the railways (accounting for about half of traffic revenues), the
only way to bring SNCFT back to financial sustainability was to eliminate excess costs, which
required additional investment to achieve the desired cost savings. Staff downsizing was also a
key feature of the program to cut phosphate transport costs. Studies carried out for project
preparation revealed that with some 1,750 staff assigned to operating the phosphate network, a
redundancy program of about 750 staff5 would be needed, executed over five years and
synchronized with the implementation of investments for operational improvements. This
redundancy program similar to those for bus companies were negotiated with union
representatives and implemented through a transparent process: those who were directly affected
volunteered for a severance package, the conditions of which were known and understood. The
preparation proved to be adequate through the smooth implementation of the programs.

The Government's overall commitment and ownership of the program was well established
before the start of Phase II. A number of critical laws were passed and action plans were adopted
and shared with the Bank. Financial restructuring of 13 provincial bus companies were also
completed. A letter of Railway policy was submitted to the Bank prior to Board presentation. The
overall experience with early implementation of Phase I had been positive. The commitment and
project implementation capabilities of the Ministry of Transport and the SNCTF, the key entities,
had been demonstrated during those two years. Finally, a series of action plans to liberalize
interurban passenger bus services and implement urban bus transport reforms were submitted as
condition of effectiveness.

Several potential issue were, nevertheless, not considered at entry: the extent and ambition of
urban transport reforms which on several aspects were not consensual within Government, the
still ongoing design phase of various investments included into the project, meaning procurement
of works and equipment was to be delayed until engineering studies were completed, and the
complexity of implementation arrangements due to the involvement of the Ministry of Transport,
in charge of the overall coordination and the sector management component, three urban transport

4
 As a general matter, rail freight transport ought to be profitable.
5
 Of which 350 from normal attrition and the balance from layoffs. Payments of the program costs of DT6 million, were to be made
out of the Government budget.



                                                               8
companies, and the railways company. Finally, a number of indicators were established for a
monitoring framework which was not directly correlated to PDOs.

There was no Assessment of Quality at Entry. However, given the above, quality at entry is rated
as moderately satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation

Implementation was generally slow on several counts and final stages of progress were uneven
between the physical investments and the reform actions. The implementation of the investments
was hampered by the little advanced preparation of several investment operations ­ compounded
in the case of the Tunis urban transport investments by the merger of SNT and SMLT into
TRANSTU which has notably affected the design of the metro fare and ticketing system - and in
many cases, by domestic procurement delays, mainly because of the public sector procurement
rules6 companies had to follow.

The mid-term review took place in January 2004. At that time, some progress had been made on
reform elements, critical for the achievement of PDOs and in the implementation of project
components, including STT staff redundancy plan. Actually, the pivotal new transport law had
been drafted and submitted by the Government to Parliament ­ which adopted it in April 2004.
The law introduced all key reform elements needed to achieve the development objectives. Actual
implementation and effective impact of the reform would have however depended very much on
the many application decrees which remained to be drafted. Still, given the progress of urban
transport reform ­ albeit at a slower pace than anticipated ­ the Development Objective (DO)
rating was maintained by the Bank team as satisfactory. In contrast, at mid-term, it was
recognized that the implementation of several investment components was encountering delays
and that it could not reasonably be completed by the original closing date. The Bank alerted the
Government and stressed that an extension of the closing, beyond June 2006 would only be
considered, if there were genuine momentum towards achieving all development objectives in a
timely manner and completing physical investments.

By early 2005, it was clear that ­ despite some clear progress on specific subcomponents - the
implementation of the main investment components would required between 18 to 30 more
months beyond the original closing date. The commitment of the Government to move forward
with reforms was still considered strong: work on the implementation decrees of the new
transport laws was progressing, redundancies in SNCFT, STT and the SRTGs were smoothly
absorbed, and private participation in the transport services was expected to develop further.
Updated plans firming up the implementation plans and schedules of the investment
subcomponents were agreed upon. The Government also submitted an action plan for the
implementation of the urban transport reform. The loan extension was agreed upon in May 2006.
Thereafter, implementation continued but not at a faster pace, as procurement delays continued to
slow down the investments. The procurement pace could not be accelerated, despite the various
requests from the Bank supervision missions. Except for the private participation in Tunis bus
services, the pace of reforms gradually slowed down.

A final short extension of the closing date was agreed upon, from June 30, 2009 to October 31,
2009, at GOT's request mainly to allow full payment of ongoing IT contracts for the regional bus
companies. By closing, loan disbursements in US$ had reached 95 percent of the revised loan

6
  For example, SNFCT did not benefit from different procurement rules like the state-owned airline Tunisair or the phosphate
company.



                                                                 9
amount, but 85 percent in EUR due to fluctuations in exchange rates during implementation. The
status of implementation of the investments and studies was a follows:

           ·    Completed studies and investments: (i) study of student transport; (ii) construction of
                Sfax bus depot; (iii) construction of Sousse bus depot; (iv) civil works on the
                railways phosphate network; (v) detailed design study of the RFR.
           ·    Ongoing activities to be completed shortly after the closing date: (i) construction of
                the Bokri bus depot and installation of respective equipment; (ii) rehabilitation of the
                SRTG bus depot at Le Kef; (iii) study on the upgrading of SMLT maintenance
                capabilities; and supply of the information technology system of public bus
                companies.
           ·    Activities cancelled or postponed after the closing date: (i) development of a traffic
                control system for SMLT; (ii) supply of the metro fare collection system in Tunis;
                (iii) supply of the centralized traffic control system of the railways phosphate
                network; and (iv) training of SRTG staff.

The status of reforms at the closing date was mixed but overall still disappointing given the loss
of momentum on the Government side following the early progress mentioned above. On the one
hand, the enactment of the transport law two years later than planned in the Loan Agreement, has
reformed the legal framework for urban transport, and private sector has been involved in a
certain but increasing extent in the provision of bus services. On the other hand, decrees
regarding the key financial and institutional provisions of the above law are yet to be enacted.
Private participation in bus services has developed in interurban transport and for urban services,
                                                   7
although with more limited scope than planned . The tariff agreement, renegotiated in 2007
between SNCFT and the Phosphate Company of Gafsa, failed to reflect better the true costs of
SNCFT's phosphates operations, hindering thereby the ability of the railways to make a profit on
phosphate transport and in the future, finance investments in modern rolling stock.

Other successfully completed initiatives were the staff redundancy plans of STT and SNCFT
(phosphate transport). However, the implementation of investments and studies was affected in
many instances, by longer than planned design studies. In addition, the particularly cumbersome
procedure for the many contracts involving the high procurement commission Commission
Supérieure des Marchés (CSM), misunderstandings between this Agency and SNCFT or STT
which had to comply with public procurement rules and unpredictable timing of the CSM
responses, resulted in extending procurement delays and lowering efficiency in the process. The
first large procurement contracts for works and goods for SNCFT were only signed in May 2005.
In contrast, STS managed its sub-project of the bus depot in Souse in a remarkable way. The
construction of the STS bus depot went fast and smoothly and was finalized in October 2004,
despite the fact that all preparatory studies were missing at appraisal. SORETRAS could also
complete its facility ahead of the extended closing date, although at a later date than STS, due to
contracting issues.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The borrower and the various implementation agencies submitted reports on a regular basis
(biannual) with outcome indicators including detailed performance and financial indicators of the

7
  In interurban transport, the operator was competitively selected and the lines it serves are parallel to some of the public operator
(SNTRI); the private company has executed the contract with SNTRI and does not get any subsidy. In urban transport, concessionaires
were competitively selected and signed contracts with the Ministry of Transport. They operate « high quality» lines on a commercial
basis where all passengers are seated and tariff should exceed a threshold.



                                                                 10
different transport companies, while the Bank steadily monitored the performance indicators and
the effective achievement of the Loan Agreement dated covenants and discussed them with the
authorities and agencies in the context of supervision missions.

The design of the M&E was somewhat complex, and its utilization to effectively monitor the
PDOs, proved to be difficult. In fact, project outcomes could not only be assessed based on the
indicators values at closing, while the Loan Agreement provisions had set milestones for
substantially meeting those objectives.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

As works did not entail any resettlement, only OP/BP 4.01 regarding environmental assessment
was triggered by the project which was classified as category B. The doubling of 4.2 km of
railway line with the doubling of a bridge in the phosphate transport component entailed works
for which the Environmental Impact Analysis (EIA) had not yet been completed at the time of
appraisal (contrary to all other components). However, SNCFT carried out that EIA as a
condition of disbursement of the Loan and finalized it in due time. The EIA was found broadly
satisfactory and SNCFT fully implemented the environmental management plan. The area of
works was arid and not populated.

Procurement did not raise any significant issues ­ other than delays, as explained previously
primarily with respect to the less than satisfactory interactions with the higher central
procurement commission CSM. For example, regarding the study of the metro centralized traffic
control and operating system, procurement was held up by requirements imposed by the CSM
which were inconsistent with Bank's guidelines. Finally, the Ministry of Transport dropped the
study which could no longer be financed by the Loan and will be implemented under Government
and other/bilateral financing.

On financial management, as for Phase I, the Project Management Unit (PMU) within MoT's
Direction générale de la planification et des études ensured the coordination of project related
actions, managed the Special Account, consolidated the data from the different technical agencies
and produced the financial reports. Financial management rating remained satisfactory all along
from effectiveness until few weaknesses8 in financial management were highlighted during
November 2007 supervision mission and the rating downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory. It
was further downgraded, briefly, to Moderately Unsatisfactory in January 2009, because of
difficulties in getting some detailed facilities information from the different agencies. A final
financial management supervision mission in September 2009 identified some improvements
leading to the upgrading of the rating to Moderately Satisfactory. The financial auditor which
reviewed project accounts always issued unqualified opinions.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Bank had proposed a follow-up operation centered on the financing of the first phase of the
important RFR urban railway network for Greater Tunis. However, the Government decided
instead to explore funding proposals from AFD, KFW and EIB, and justified this choice by the
cost of doing business with the Bank, because of fiduciary and safeguards requirements, and the
opportunity to mobilize significant grants from the European Commission under the


8
  Some financial statements were not fully in line with the agreed models, delays in data transmission including from the
implementing entities.



                                                                 11
Neighborhood Policy9. The Bank is also providing in 2009-2010, a new TA for the development
of a low carbon transport strategy which should provide valuable input to the adaptation to
climate change and the identification of mitigation measures in the transport sector.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Throughout implementation, Tunisia's development strategy remained based on economic growth
which was driven by increasing integration into the global economy, human development and the
development of infrastructure. The overarching objectives of the APL to make transport more
efficient were highly relevant, given the importance of transport for economic and human
development. The objectives of making the railways transport more efficient was particularly
important with respect to the transport of phosphate, a key export and foreign exchange earning
activity for Tunisia, as it accounts for a significant share of SNCFT's activity. Tackling the issues
of urban transport inefficiencies by developing better public transport and improving the
performance of the state transport enterprises, is particularly important in a country experiencing
growing urbanization with associated congestions and pollution problems. Better interurban
transport is also important for poverty alleviation in secondary cities and rural areas. In addition,
reducing (or at least containing) subsidies to transport companies is critical for the budget
constraint of the Tunisian Government. Finally, a more efficient transport system, especially
urban transport relying increasingly on less energy consuming public transport modes, will also
help Tunisia reduce its consumption of oil based fuel, thereby reducing the country's import bill
and vulnerability to increasing international oil prices.

The institutional goal with respect to establishing new regional transport coordinating and
management authorities may, with hindsight raise questions. The selected objective was the
appropriate one allowing addressing deep rooted coordination issues at the regional level and
financing issues. However, the approach and time horizon could be questioned, as discussed in
section 3.5 (b) and 5.

The project design with a mix of investments and planned institutional capacity building activities
financed by the loan, and the underlying reforms to be completed by agreed dates, remained
adequate given the transport sector issues and the specific needs of the various transport
operators. Implementation arrangements already tested during phase I proved to be adequate­the
procurement related problems and delays being, in general, more of an institutional nature and
outside the project scope.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The Project Development Objectives were only partly achieved at project completion. Most of the
objectives with respect to investments were achieved or were expected to be achieved in a
reasonable period at completion, further to MOT's commitment to finance shortfall out of
domestic resources or by Donors. In railways, main productivity improvements sought from the
phosphate network component could materialize, since the redundancy plan was also completed.
In contrast, much more was missing in terms of fully achieving the objectives intended for most
of the reforms in urban transport. The rating for the achievement of PDO was downgraded,
correctly so, from Satisfactory to Moderately Satisfactory by the end of the fourth year of

9
    Those grants can only be mobilized in association with loans from EIB and EU member development agencies.



                                                                12
implementation, and shortly before the decision to extend the loan was formally taken. This rating
was further downgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory six months before the extended closing
date because of lack of further progress on reforms. Given the mixed outcome, this final rating
appears to be appropriate for objectives which were, with insight, ambitious and complex
especially regarding urban transport.

The key law reforming the urban transport was passed but could not yet be fully implemented by
the Loan closing date 10 as a few of the 27 odd decrees needed to implement the law were
enacted. There were no clear prospects on when and in what form the missing ones would be
issued and whether the specific intended reforms would be fully implemented or not. The lack of
decrees providing the detailed provisions for the financing of urban transport activities, a
prerequisite for the contractual compensation of public sector obligations, similar to those
allocated to suburban passenger railways services, in order ensure the sector sustainability, casts
doubts on the prospects of putting the transport enterprises on a sustainable financial footing in a
foreseeable future - through an approach different from the usual rounds of significant tariff
increase approvals and negotiations on ad hoc subsidies from the Ministry of Finance. The very
difficult situation of all urban transport companies, especially SNT, is evidenced by their
financial ratios (Annex 3). Especially disappointing was also the failure to create a formal urban
transport coordination, management and regulation set-up for the Greater Tunis, which was
addressed in a dated loan covenant of the Loan Agreement. In fact, the Minister of Interior did
not support Governors to establish Transport Authorities. The latter could not hire or transfer the
necessary staff to those entities, although the Ministry of Transport was willing to finance the
initial costs from the Loan. Consequently, setting up urban transport coordination, management
and regulation arrangements for the Greater Tunis was only achieved indirectly and partly
through the establishment of STT (merger of SNT and SMLT) and the continued direct oversight
of the MOT. In contrast, some progress has been achieved in terms of the private sector
participation in public bus transport services, mostly urban in Tunis and to a certain extent in
interurban services.

The achievements in terms of investments were better, with activities related to high impact
subcomponents completed (or about to be completed under local financing) and starting to show
the first benefits. For example the bus and maintenance facilities leading to a significant increase
of the availability of the vehicles of the Tunis, Sousse and Sfax bus companies from the
beginning of depot operations. Two of the three subcomponents for the phosphate railways
transport were finalized, with reasonable prospects for a fast improvement of the efficiency of the
SNCFT phosphate operations. The tariff agreement renegotiated in 2007 between SNCFT and the
Phosphate company of Gafsa did not, however, meet the expectations.

With respect to the achievement of the overall APL objectives, the project has effectively
contributed to increasing the efficiency and quality of urban and railways transport services
through expanding and modernizing transport equipment, but has only marginally improved the
performance of public enterprises.

3.3 Efficiency

Revised Economic Analysis

Economic analysis has been actualized for two of the five components of the project, namely the
bus depot of Bokri and the bus depot of Sfax. The economic analysis of the three other

10
     However, it could be implemented and was with respect to private participation in transport services.



                                                                    13
components could be revised since no economic analysis was initially provided in the PAD (in
the case of the bus depot of Sousse) and no actualized data was available (in the case of the
phosphate railways and the termination plan for employees of bus companies).

Based on the methodology described in the PAD in 2001 and on the latest available data provided
by the Tunisian Ministry of Transport, the economic rate of return (ERR) has been recalculated
for the bus depots of Bokri and Sfax. The results which are based on a discount rate of 10 percent
are reflected in table 1 below. More details are presented in the annex.

                              Table 1: Economic Rate of Return
Project                           ERR estimated in 2001             ERR revised in 2010
Bus depot in Bokri                    19.2 percent                     25.2 percent
Bus depot in Sfax                      17.1 percent                      8.9 percent

The revised ERR of Bokri depot is significantly higher than the ERR calculated in the PAD in
2001, while the revised ERR of Sfax depot is significantly lower. Nevertheless, for both projects,
actual investment costs have been higher than expected by about 50 percent, as shown in table 2
below:
                                  Table 2: Investment Costs
Project                 Estimated cost in 2001*       Actual cost in 2010*      Cost increase
Bus depot in Bokri          7.2 million DT              10.8 million DT         +50 percent
Bus depot in Sfax           4.7 million DT              6.9 million DT          +47 percent
* excluding 18% VAT

As the depot of Bokri opened in March 2010, the actual economic benefits gained from the
project are still unknown. The estimated ERR has increased between 2001 and 2010, essentially
because the total number of buses operated by the company and the number of buses transferred
to Bokri have increased by about 30 percent (see details in annex). Depending on what will
happen in terms of future benefits, the revised ERR could, however, vary from the currently
estimated 25.2 percent.

For the bus depot of Sfax, which started to operate in 2007, the economic benefits have been
revised and are notably lower than estimated in the PAD (see details in annex). Had they been
equal to the estimates in the PAD, the revised ERR would be 11.0 percent instead of 8.9 percent.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

No major shortcomings were indentified in terms of relevance of objectives and design yet, the
Monitoring and Evaluation Framework was disconnected from those objectives and prevented the
accurate appreciation of project impact/outcomes and linking the latter to the actual components.
Ratings of the different project components set after the final supervision mission and confirmed
by the last ISR remain adequate at project closing. They vary from Moderately Unsatisfactory to
Moderately Satisfactory with only two sub-ratings, those related to the redundancies of bus
companies' staff and staff of the SNCFT phosphate unit reaching a satisfactory level. The
achievement of development objectives has been rated Moderately Unsatisfactory in the last ISR.
Consequently, the overall rating could hardly be better than Moderately Unsatisfactory,



                                               14
considering in addition: (i) the unclear prospects that the remaining objectives of the urban reform
be achieved and the financial viability of the transport companies be secured in the very near
future; and (ii) the duration of the project implementation that lasted eight and a half years.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Social development and gender aspects were not part of the Project Development Objectives.
Nevertheless, improvements of public transport services achieved through the project, notably in
terms of improving the quality of service, benefit the population at large and particularly those
who cannot rely on/afford transport by individual cars. The development of urban and suburban
public transport services also resulted in containing/reducing congestion and air pollution with the
corresponding positive health consequences. In addition, the workforce reductions were effected
in the bus companies and SNCFT through well designed redundancy program. Finally, no
negative social implications were reported.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

For the future and ambitious RFR program, the Bank's significant value added during the
implementation of the project, at the time RFR studies were being carried out, was to alert the
authorities to the need of setting an adequate project structure to complete the preparation and
manage implementation of this complex project. With Bank's advice, the Government established
a special purpose company ­ TRANSFER ­ and decided on the next steps and the institutional
approach for the system operations. The Bank team was also instrumental in bringing SNCFT's
management to develop a comprehensive business plan under a strategic approach with a
medium-term financial model, disaggregated down to specific business units as needed to better
appreciate the company' strengths and weaknesses, future challenges, and needs.

The project had also a beneficial impact in training MoT staff on preparation and award of
concessions for private bus services, as well as raising their awareness on key conditions for
successful private participation in urban transport.

Finally, at closing the Government intended to organize training activities planned under the
Project ­ such as training for SRTGs staff ­ and undertook most of the uncompleted TA activities
later outside the project, with bilateral financing or grants. Yet, particularly disappointing was the
fact that the TA aimed at developing regulatory capacity for urban transport through regional
authorities could not materialize, as those were not yet created within the Governorate
Administration by the closing date of the project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

A positive development has been the Bank teams' input to the preparation of the 11th Five Year
Plan (2007-2011) priorities in transport, especially in the railways, and to the selection by the
Government of the respective investment program in that sector.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.




                                                 15
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The main risks at ICR stage are as follows:

Low commitment of the Government to pursue urban transport sector reforms at large

Rating: significant

The creation of regional transport authorities had to face complex institutional and political
issues, outside MOT responsibilities. They pertain to the complex institutional decentralization
agenda, including financing matters, on which Tunisia still has a long way to go. Accordingly, the
issue may remain unresolved for some time. Regarding private participation, the Tunisian
authorities have taken stock of the lessons from the first experiences of private participation in
urban bus services. They are also likely to apply those on a larger scale to suburban services in
Greater Tunis, without nevertheless considering similar schemes for regional cities.

Lack of progress in adopting new arrangements for contractual compensation of the public
services obligation of the public transport companies

Rating: substantial

Despite repeated proposals by MOT and recommendations from the Bank, the issue remained
unresolved because of lack of support from the Ministry of Finance for new financing alternatives
for urban transport services meeting critical social needs for the Government. This may be
exacerbated by broader issues of local taxation, energy prices, taxation/externalities of transport
at large, and social aspect of tariff policies for which a comprehensive review may be needed for
the Government to adopt the most appropriate approach for the Tunisian context. In the
meantime, in the absence of revised sound financing mechanisms, the need will remain for the
Government to compensate public transport enterprises, from time to time, for their cumulated
losses and/or fund their periodic financial restructuring plans, with very negative consequences
on the enterprises' governance and incentive framework.




                                                16
Lack of progress in adopting new contractual arrangements between SNCFT and the Phosphate
mining company on phosphate transport tariffs

Rating: substantial.

In the current environment, the phosphate company which is the top Tunisian exporter is not in a
position to change existing tariff arrangements under which there is a strong likelihood that its
transport costs would be, from time to time, subsidized by the Government and/or SNCFT. With
the highly competitive phosphate export markets, a change is unlikely until SNCFT has carried
out effective productivity improvement (because of project investments) and can convincingly
demonstrate those through enhanced business center accounting and benchmarking with similar
operations.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: moderately satisfactory

Based on the experience of phase I and GOT's strong commitment when requesting phase II, the
Bank team ensured adequate quality at entry in terms of consistency of this second phase with the
overall APL objectives. The team had an excellent knowledge of the sector, from phase I and
former sector studies. It could also draw on the close cooperation established under phase I to
design a project consistent with the APL program objectives, addressing critical reforms for urban
transport, and supporting critical investments and capacity strengthening issues both in that sector
and for railways. In terms of risks, the Bank team correctly assessed the risk of slow introduction
of the private sector in bus transport, knowing that the privatization drive was limited in Tunisia,
and set realistic projects objectives and timeline. Nevertheless, the Bank underestimated the risk
of insufficient political consensus on far-ranging reforms and the long implementation time
frame. In addition, the results of the M&E framework have proven disappointing due the
disconnection between several indicators and the PDO, and the lack of intermediate outcome
indicators related to project components. The preparation of some investment components may
also have been short and a bit insufficient, which can be explained by the Government's desire to
accelerate phase II, and the rapid addition of a new component, the railway phosphate transport,
although design studies of those investments were yet to be carried out.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank team undertook regular supervision throughout implementation, mainly by conducting
missions twice a year with high level expertise in railways and urban transport. The scope of the
missions usually encompassed both the supervision of the project implementation components
and in depth discussions with counterparts on reform agendas and time frame. The team was
proactive, highly reactive and flexible and suggested measures or initiatives on institutional and
policy issues. For example, on the issue related to the proposed regional transport management
authorities, when the "Conseil Constitutionnel" declared the draft Land Transport Law to be



                                                17
inconsistent with the "Loi Fondamentale" (LF) on Regional councils, for its provisions dealing
with the establishment of such authorities, the team make the best effort to keep the dialogue
moving while continuing driving the issue and considering alternatives. In an attempt to solve the
issue of contractual compensation of the public services obligations of the public transport
companies, the team also carried out for MOT, who discussed findings with Ministry of Finance,
a special study on alternative financing/taxation arrangements comparing experiences from other
countries and their adaptability to the Tunisian context. Furthermore, the team followed upon the
Borrower's requests for an extension of time and partial reallocations of funds between Loan
categories, while downgrading ratings as progress stalled. Overall, the team contributed to a high
quality dialogue, yet it could have carried out a closer supervision of implementation issues in
between missions.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

As part of the supervision, the Bank team continuously provided high quality advice to the
authorities on transport issues, often beyond the strict scope of the project. The overall rating is
Moderately Satisfactory given the above sub-ratings.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government's efforts to prepare the new transport law and have it adopted by parliament in
2004, bore testimony to its initial commitment to reform urban transport. The successfully
completed redundancy plan of SNCFT is also notable in an area with high social risks. However,
failure to have all necessary implementation decrees of the transport law, adopted during the next
four years, was a setback. It is especially disappointing that no effective alternative arrangements
were identified nor implemented for the regional transport management and for effective and
contractual compensation of public services obligation of public transport companies.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The project involved several implementing agencies, including the State owned SNCFT, STT,
STS, SORETRAS and other SRTGs under the overall coordination of the Ministry of Transport
which was directly in charge of the sector management component. On the one hand, the Ministry
of Transport fully played its coordinating role throughout project implementation and completed
most of the activities under its own responsibility. It especially played its part in overseeing the
strengthening initiatives of SRTGs and opening the urban and interurban transport services to
new private operators. Nevertheless, coordination problems between SNTRI, the state owned
interurban bus company, and its private subcontractor for five interurban passenger lines limited
the positive demonstration impact expected from the pilot operation. Moreover, STS and
SORETRAS can be commended for their achievement in completing the construction of depots
on time. STT staff redundancy program was also successfully completed. Finally, the various
productivity efforts of SNCFT and the phosphate staff reduction plan were also sufficient to
balance accounts but not to ensure long-term financial sustainability, because of the increasing



                                                18
operating and staff costs and setbacks in freight activities. On the other hand, several investments
and studies under the responsibility of the state owned companies were affected by procurement
delays, albeit to some extent often out of their control, and eventually achieved uneven reasonable
success. Some were not completed on time and others had to be cancelled.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory given the above performances of Government and implementing
agencies.

6. Lessons Learned

First, urban transport reform is intrinsically difficult to achieve as demonstrated by this project. It
highlights the importance of setting up realistic development objective in accordance with the
agreed time frame. Indeed, expecting to carry out these specific reforms in Tunisia over the
initially planned time span of five years, whereas key components were not yet designed when
the Loan was approved, was probably overoptimistic. Nevertheless, it was reasonable to expect
achieving them over the eight and plus years that the project eventually lasted. Yet, the main
stumbling block may have resulted from the institutional problems related to setting new regional
structures/institutional arrangement and reforming the financing of urban transport ­ as
indispensable as they were ­ as stressed below.

Second, setting up new structures/institutional arrangements for transport at the regional level is
complex and sensitive, touching on decentralization issues going well beyond urban transport. If
there are lingering doubts within government on the rationale of setting up new structures
whereas existing ones may possibly be used, the challenges will be even greater. In cases where
new structures/institutional arrangements are key factors for the reforms, it is better to tackle the
issue of their selection and design before starting the implementation of the program: have a full
prior review and wide debate on the alternatives, to reach a consensus on the best solution before
the actual start.

Third, reforming public (state-owned) transport enterprises is difficult and sensitive, if not more
than reforming public enterprises in many other sectors. Particularly so, if their financial situation
and hence capacity to invest for future productivity gains depends heavily on tariffs set or
approved by the Government and contributions from the State when they have significant public
service obligations. Having a fair assessment of their performance is paramount for the dialogue
with the Government on reforming and supporting those enterprises. Benchmarking their
performance regularly with strong performers of other countries should be carried out regularly.
Achieving reforms can be a hopeless attempt unless there is a sustained commitment and interest
to do so from both the ministries of transport and finance.

Fourth, the contractual arrangements between a transport enterprise and its large captive client
could turn into difficult issues, even more so when the client is a major exporter like the
phosphate mining company selling in a highly competitive world markets and the transporter is
the state-owned railway company. Fair and sustainable contractual transport arrangements over
the long-term are hard to establish, especially if heavy investments are required and there are
doubts about the efficiency of the transporter. In many instances, a better solution would be to
have the mining company responsible for the transport (like running its own trains) or having a
joint-venture company, distinct of the state railways, operate its own trains and even the dedicated
lines. This approach has been adopted in an increasing number of countries.



                                                  19
Finally, the advanced availability of design studies and the harmonization of clear
procurement procedures from the outset of project implementation are critical for a
timely implementation of the project. These general lessons are even more important for
Tunisia, where there is a systemic national cause of delays in procurement, namely
because of lengthy procedure involving the Commission Supérieure des Marchés which
often becomes a bottleneck in the current state of regulations and procedures, especially
when its recommendations, based on national regulations, are not consistent with the
Bank procurement guidelines.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

A brief ICR from the Borrower is available. It is in essence descriptive and it details the status of
completion of the investment components and their impact, but does not make comments on the
progress of the reforms themselves nor on specific difficulties and problems encountered in
carrying out the project, particularly the reforms. The Borrower mentions the quality of the
dialogue and the advice provided by the Bank, inter alia for the railways. The Borrower's report
also briefly refers to the differences between the Bank and the Tunisian agencies procurement
rules.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable




                                                 20
                                                             Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD and EUR Million equivalent)

                                                                              Table 3: Project Costs
               Component                                                Appraisal Estimate                                    Actual/Latest
                                                                          USD (Mios)                 Euro (Mios)              Euro (Mios)
                                                Cost
                                                              % Bank           Loan                                            Loan
                                                (US$                                          Cost      Loan Amount   Cost           % Appraisal
                                                             Financing        Amount                                          Amount
                                                Mios)                                                                                 (Cost)*

1. Infrastructure improvements for public         16.1          68%              11           17.57         12.00     14.75     12.92         84%
bus companies
2. Development of traffic control and             10.2          41%              4.2          11.13          4.58     0.47      0.16          4%
maintenance systems at SMLT
3. Severance payments to redundant bus             10          100%              10           10.91         10.91     9.80      9.80          90%
employees (SNT and SRTG)
4. Consulting services to public urban bus        0.7          100%              0.7           0.76          0.76     0.00      0.00          0%
companies
5. Assistance to development of manageme          1.1           64%              0.7           1.20          0.76     0.00      0.00          0%
and regulatory entities for urban transport
6. Urban transport and traffic studies            1.2           0%                0           1.31          0.00      2.01      1.65          154%
7. Upgrading of the railways phosphate            11.7       70% / 90%           9.6          11.70         10.48     7.27      5.72          62%
network
8. Severance payments to redundant                4.3            0%               0            4.69          0.00     0.00      0.00          0%
staff of the railways phosphate unit
9. Technical Assistance to the railway            1.3           77%               1            1.30          1.09     0.11      0.09          8%
phosphate unit
Total Basline Cost                                56.6                          37.2          60.58         40.59     34.41     30.34
Front End Fee                                     0.37         100%             0.37          0.41          0.41      0.41       0.41

Total Financing                                  56.97                          37.57         60.99         41.00     34.82     30.75

* Percentage are not meaningful due to the large exchange rates fluctuations during implementation




                                                                                        21
    (b) Financing

                                          Table 4: Financing
                                                       Appraisal
                                                                  Actual/Latest
                                                       Estimate
                                           Type of                  Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds                                (USD
                                         Cofinancing                 (EUR       Appraisal
                                                       millions)
                                                                    millions)
                                                     /EUR million
 Borrower                                            19.40/ 20.00     4.07       20.35
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                     37.57/ 41.00    30.75       75.00
and Development




                                               22
                             Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1. Urban transport (US$36.2 million)

1. Bus Depot for SNT in Bokri Tunis

Latest estimated cost: DT 12.1 million
The procurement was significantly delayed. There were issues with the acquisition of parts of the
land plot in Bokri. The purchased land was not flat and additional earthwork was required
resulting in cost overruns. The contract for detailed engineering had to be retendered together
with the supervision of the works. Finally, design changes further delayed the start of the works.

Civil works started only in June 2007. As of July 31, 2009, civil works were fully completed and
95% of the ancillary works (water and electricity). The construction of the steel structure ran into
problems when the first selected contractor could not go ahead with works because of his
financial problems. This lot had to be retendered and works started in February 2009. Its
construction was 75% finalized by July 2009. The whole depot was expected to be completed by
December 2009.

2. Bus depot for SORETRAS in Sfax

Final cost: DT 7.891 million
The original plans had to be modified to defer construction of steel structures on reclaimed land
that needed time to stabilize. A complex foundation with 400 piles was required. The construction
contract had to be rebid after withdrawal of the originally selected contractor because of high
increase in steel prices. Construction could no start before February 2005 and the building was
completed in May 2006. 17 lots of equipment were purchased and installed. The facilities were
taken over by the company in May 2008, fully meeting expectations. Since the facilities are
operational, the company has been able to develop effectively preventive maintenance of its
vehicles. This led to an increase of vehicle availability from 77% in 2006 to 79% in 2007 and
82% (est.) in 2008.

3. Bus depot and repair facilities for STS in Sousse

Final cost: DT 8.606 million
Implementation of this subcomponent went swiftly and smoothly. The construction of the
building was completed in October 2004. Twenty lots of equipment were purchased and installed,
but with a significant cost overrun, and several lots had to be retendered. All had been delivered
by mid-2008. New facilities are fully meeting expectations, bringing significant efficiency gains
to STS.

4. Bus depot for STRG du Kef

Estimated cost DT 0.713 million
In 2007, the MoT requested that the loan also partially finance the upgrading of the bus
maintenance facilities of the Société Régionale de Transport du Kef. The initial bidding process
for the building was unsuccessful and new tendering for the works took place in early 2009. The
construction was expected to be completed by end 2009.



                                                23
5. Development of a metro operating system for STT

Estimated cost DT 0.67 million
After a slow start in procurement preparation, a first bid round for the study led to disagreements
with the Central Procurement Commission (CSM) on the tendering results in 2005 and stalling of
the process, although three years had elapsed between the bid advertising and the Bank's non
objection on the technical bid evaluation. In 2007, STS decided to change the technological
approach to use a GPS based system. The resulting new tendering process would therefore have
resulted in the delivery extending significantly after loan closing and this subcomponent was thus
taken out of the project.

6. Technical audit and study of the train maintenance of STT

Estimated cost DT 0.8 million
The study started belatedly in July 2005, after administrative delays. After the 1st phase was
completed in 2006, changes in the consulting consortium led to delays and queries from STT and
CSM, effectively suspending the implementation of the study. A contract amendment in early
2009 allowed the 2nd phase to proceed. The study was expected to be completed by end of 2009.

9. Metro access control and fare management and collection system for Tunis

Latest estimated cost: DT 17.3 million
The study to design the system and prepare the bidding documents, financed by SNT, started
belatedly after procurement problems11 and was only finalized in May December 2006, given the
complexity of the subject and consultation needed in the process. The SNCFT as well as the team
in charge of the future RFR project were also involved because of the multi-modal integration
needs of the system. At the same time the authorities decided to launch a new individual tariff
study, for the whole Tunis. The cost estimates of the system itself (to be financed under the loan)
were increased considerably upwards. The overall concept was thus revised downwards and
additional financing sources had to be sought. The French AFD agreed in principle to participate.
The finalized bidding documents for the system were only approved in December 2008 and the
bidding price launched in January 2009. Given these delays, the subcomponent could no longer
be financed by the loan and will be implemented under Government and other/bilateral financing.

10. Severance programs of the bus companies

Altogether 1,277 staff ­ 428 staff from SNT and 843 from the SRTG ­ benefitted from the
severance program. The cost which reached DT21.4 million was partly financed by the loan
(DT13.6 million) and the balance by the budget. The redundancy program was carried out swiftly
and smoothly and its scope exceeded the estimates at appraisal (907 staff).




11
     Very often the first bidding round is fruitless and a second tendering round is the needed.



                                                                     24
Component 2. Modernization and Streamlining of Phosphate railway transport (Euro 22.5
million)

1. Doubling the SNFCT track between Aguila and Gafsa

Latest estimated cost: DT 7.1 million
This subcomponent consisted in increasing track capacity section over the 4.2 km section
between Aguila and Gafsa including building a second bridge over the Oued Bayech and
strengthening the existing one. It involves an engineering study with an environmental
assessment, civil works and supply of equipment. The study was completed in 2003 as well the
acquisition of the land. Bids for civil works were received in July 2004 and the actual contract
was signed in May 2005. The new bridge was open to traffic in April 2007 and rehabilitation of
the old one was finalized in December 2007. The double line for the full section was completed
and opened to traffic by June 2009. There were no resettlements and the environment impact was
quite moderate.

2. Computer-assisted Radio Block (CRB) on the Gafsa-Gabes itinerary

The complex and specialized study for computer assisted radio-block system of Southern network
started in February 2003. It was completed before March 2004. Extensive discussions and
revisions of the technical proposal were required as the initial concept based on European system
rather than North American railways did not fit well the characteristics of the Tunisian Southern
network. An additional consultant had to be hired for the detailed design of the new system and
the preparation of the bidding documents. Conflicting views within SNCFT about the system
design concept also stalled the process for some time. The system finally selected by May 2004
cost an estimated DT1.4 million, an amount exceeding the appraisal estimate. The first contracts
for civil works could not be signed before October 2005. Civil works were completed in October
2006. The contract for supply and installation of automatic equipment was signed in April 2006
and installation was finalized by June 2008. The supply of rail apparatus was completed by
September 2008. Specific telecommunications equipment had eventually to be procured
separately under AfDB financing.12 The block was operational by October 2008.

3. Centralized Traffic Control system (CTC) of the railways phosphate network

This component was to include remote control devices in 20 stations and the CTC command post
in Gafsa (ultimately in Tunis). The existing old cable network did not prove to be reliable as
hoped for at appraisal and the addition to the project a new telecom system with optical fiber was
therefore required. The additional cost was estimated at DT6.8 million, taking into account the
free supply of the cable itself by Tunisie-Telecom. The procurement of this subcomponent came
to a halt in early 2007 as SNCFT attempted to include the necessary equipment into a country
wide command center under the electrification program of the suburban railways services ­ and
subsequently reverted to the initial plan. Because of these delays, the only contract that could still
be financed under the loan was the supply and installation of remote control devices. However,
following delays in the bidding process, this contract could not be entered into, on time, to be
financed under the loan. Civil works and the third contract for this component were financed by
the AfDB. This subcomponent was not completed at the time of closing.
4. Severance payment for the redundancy program of SNCFT phosphate unit staff
12
   Because of a significant cost increase of the railway component, the amount of Euro 11.3 million allocated from the loan together
with the Government's contribution of Euro 3.2 million were not sufficient to fully finance this component. The Euro 3.8 million gap
was expected to be covered by an AfDB loan.



                                                                25
A first redundancy program of 1468 SNCFT staff was completed under phase I. The second
program for 475 staff was carried under phase II during 2002-2003 with financing from the State.

Component 3. Sector Management (US$3 million)

1. Common information system for the bus companies

Estimated cost DT 2.2 million
This subcomponent, financed only partly by the loan, included studies and supply of equipment.
The study was finalized in 2008 and the procurement of 4 lots of the equipment out of 6 was
completed by July 2009. Procurement of the remaining 2 was under way to be financed by the
Government budget.

2. Training of SRTGs staff

The Government decided to finance those training activities outside the project, with bilateral
financing or grants.

3. Study of the new Tunis RFR

The study for the development of mass transit systems (rapid rail system, light rail system, and
intermodal stations) in the Greater Tunis was first financed by phase I of the APL. It included the
beginning of the preparation of the preliminary design (APS) of this ambitious Regional railway
network RFR. It was decided to extend this activity in phase II to include the detailed preliminary
design (APD) for DT2.47 million. This activity was completed. It entailed the preparation of
technical specification (engineering design) for the bidding documents for this project for which
the tendering process was planned for late 2008-early 2009. Construction of the first phase of
RFR was to be provided jointly by AFD, KFW and EIB.

4. Other studies and consultant services

A number of initially planned activities to be financed under the project were dropped. This
included TA to the railways phosphate unit, TA to the MoT, TA to the bus companies, transport
master plans and traffic plans for selected secondary cities; and assistance to new regional
transport entities, the new institutions in charge of urban transport management and regulation,
which had not been set up by the closing of the loan.




                                                26
                                  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A. Economic Analysis

Bus depot of Bokri

Compared to the economic analysis of the PAD in 2001, the following data have been revised
(Table 5):

                                           Table 5: Data on Bokri Bus Depot
Data                                                         in 2001                in 2010           Change
Investment cost                                              7.2m DT                10.8m DT          +50%
Total number of buses operated by the company                950                    1220              +28%
Number of available buses                                    847                    1161              +37%
Availability rate                                            89%                    87%               -
Number of buses transferred to Bokri                         150                    200               +33%
Collision cost                                               75 DT                  75 DT             0%
Average empty trip per bus each year                         8074 km                8691 km           +8%
Variable operating cost                                      1.2 DT/km              2.4 DT/km         +100%
Payroll for Bokri depot (excl. management staff)             6.1m DT/year           17m DT/year       +179%
Average cost for a standard bus                              125000 DT              151000 DT         +21%
Average cost for an articulated bus                          186000 DT              293000 DT         +58%



Since the depot began operating in March 2010, no new data is yet available on actual operation
and maintenance costs, or actual benefits gained from the project. The revised total investment
cost is DT10.8 million, excluding 18 percent VAT. This amount has been disbursed according to
the following profile: 30 percent in 2008 (DT3.2m), 45 percent in 2009 (DT4.9m), and 25 percent
in 2010 (DT2.7m). With a discount rate of 10 percent, the revised ERR is 25.2 percent (Table 6).

                                                        Table 6: ERR

                                                                   Benefits gained from:
                 Investment                  Increase    Increase in     Decrease      Increase in   Decrease       Net
   Year                       O/M costs
                    costs                     in bus        bus          in empty         staff       in bus      benefits
                                             lifespan    availability      trips      productivity   collision

   2008           3254237              0                                                                          -3254237
   2009           4881356              0                                                                          -4881356
   2010           2711864          64500       788667        61678        312840            382500        22500   -1208180
   2011                   0        86000     1577333        123356        417120            510000        30000   2571809
   2012                   0        86000     2366000        185033        417120            510000        30000   3422153
   2013                   0        86000     2366000        185033        417120            510000        30000   3422153
   2014                   0       136000     2366000        185033        417120            510000        30000   3372153
   2015                   0        86000     2366000        185033        417120            340000        30000   3252153
   2016                   0        86000     2366000        185033        417120            340000        30000   3252153
   2017                   0        86000     2366000        185033        417120            340000        30000   3252153
   2018                   0        86000     2366000        185033        417120            340000        30000   3252153




                                                              27
                                                           Benefits gained from:
            Investment                Increase   Increase in    Decrease      Increase in   Decrease      Net
  Year                    O/M costs
               costs                   in bus       bus         in empty         staff       in bus     benefits
                                      lifespan   availability     trips      productivity   collision

  2019               0      161000    2366000       185033        417120           340000      30000    3177153
  2020               0        86000   2366000       185033        417120           170000      30000    3082153
  2021               0        86000   2366000       185033        417120           170000      30000    3082153
  2022               0        86000   2366000       185033        417120           170000      30000    3082153
  2023               0        86000   2366000       185033        417120           170000      30000    3082153
  2024               0      186000    2366000       185033        417120           170000      30000    2982153
  2025               0        86000   2366000       185033        417120           170000      30000    3082153
  2026               0        86000   2366000       185033        417120           170000      30000    3082153
  2027               0        86000   2366000       185033        417120           170000      30000    3082153
  2028             0          86000   2366000       185033        417120           170000      30000    3082153
                   -
  2029       8400000        236000    2366000       185033        417120           170000      30000    11332153
All figures are in Tunisian dinars                                                              ERR       25.2%

Bus depot of Sfax

Compared to the economic analysis of the PAD, the following elements have been updated:
   · the actual total investment cost is DT6.9 million, excluding VAT; 40 percent of this
      amount was disbursed in 2005 (DT2.75m), and the rest in 2006 (DT4.12m). The bus
      depot began operating in 2007.
   · the annual O/M costs between 2007 and 2009 ranged from DT13,000 to DT28,5000.
   · compared to the situation before the depot was built, the kilometric productivity of buses
      increased by 400,000 km in 2007, 700,000 km in 2008, and 300,000 km in 2009, with a
      net margin of 0.425 DT/km. This is notably lower than the 1.6 million km/year expected
      in the PAD.
   · the number of collisions, per year, decreased from 1000 to 50 after the depot was built.
      Each collision costs DT320, hence an average annual savings of DT304,000.
   · the number of security guards employed by the bus company was reduced by 15 percent
      (DT9,000 per year), while the number of maintenance staff was reduced by 66 percent
      (DT59,000 per year), hence a savings of DT68,000 per year.
   · 110 recent buses no longer need to be repaired against corrosion (which costs DT720 per
      bus per year), hence a savings of DT79,200 per year. This is significantly lower than
      what was presented in the PAD, since the company did not buy any no new buses in
      2007, 2008, and 2009, contrary to what was expected (the calculation in the PAD took
      into account 240 recent buses).




                                                      28
With a discount rate of 10 percent, the revised ERR is 8.9 percent (Table 7).

                                                   Table 7: ERR

                                                                    Benefits from:

             Investment                                                      Decrease in
  Year                       O/M costs        Increase in                                    Decrease in   Net benefits
                costs                                        Decrease in     security and
                                                 bus                                             bus
                                                            bus collisions   maintenance
                                             productivity                                     corrosion
                                                                                 costs

  2005           2745763                                                                                      -2745763

  2006           4118644                                                                                      -4118644

  2007                  0            13000        170000          304000             68000         79200        608200

  2008                  0            28500        297500          304000             68000         79200        720200

  2009                  0            17000        127500          304000             68000         79200        561700

  2010                  0             7000        400000          304000             68000         79200        844200

  2011                  0            32000        400000          304000             68000         79200        819200

  2012                  0             7000        400000          304000             68000         79200        844200

  2013                  0             7000        400000          304000             68000         79200        844200

  2014                  0             7000        400000          304000             68000         79200        844200

  2015                  0             7000        400000          304000             68000         79200        844200

  2016                  0            42000        400000          304000             68000         79200        809200

  2017                  0             7000        400000          304000             68000         79200        844200

  2018                  0             7000        400000          304000             68000         79200        844200

  2019                  0             7000        400000          304000             68000         79200        844200

  2020          -3500000              7000        400000          304000             68000         79200       4344200
All figures are in Tunisian dinars                                                                 ERR        8.9%

B. Financial Analysis

I. Financial ratios

A number of financial covenants for the public transport enterprises provided that key financial
indicators for SNCFT, SNT/SMLT, SORETRAS and STS would reach certain targets for 2002.
As shown in the summary table, a number of those targets had been met even by 2007/2008.
Except for the ratio of labor cost to operational revenues for SNFCT, SORETRAS and STS, and
current ratios for SNFCT and STS, none of the targets had been achieved by 2007/2008.




                                                            29
      Table 8: Key financial Indicators ­ Transport enterprises ­ Actual versus Targeted
Enterprise                           2002 target   2007 actual   2008 actual
SNCFT
operating ratio                          95%         102.8%            104.%
working ratio                            67%         92.7%             94.2%
debt to equity ratio                    <45%            na               na
labor cost to operational revenues      <52%          48.9%            49.1%
current ratio                            >1.0          1.17              na
SNT/SMLT (before merger) and
STT( after merger)
operating ratio                       96%/95%       140.1 %           142.6 %
working ratio                         81%/82%       119.80 %          121.1%
debt to equity ratio                    <45%         108.6%           125.8%
labor cost to operational revenues      <52%          79.3%            79.6%
current ratio                            >1.0          0.21             0.25.
SORETRAS
operating ratio                          98%          105%             101 %
working ratio                            82%          90 %              87%
debt to equity ratio                    <45 %         104%             120%
labor cost to operational revenues      <52%           59%              57%
current ratio                            >1.0          0.62             0.59
STS
operating ratio                          98%          105%             103 %
working ratio                            74%          89 %              89%
debt to equity ratio                    <45 %          51%              57%
labor cost to operational revenues      <52%          37.%              35%
current ratio                            >1.0          1.03             1.20




                                             30
II. Financial Statements

                                    Table 9: Société des Transports de Tunis (STT)
                  Title                      Code    2006           2007          2008           2009         2010
                                                                                                Actual       Original
Items under the Operating Account
*Total including:                                   131,045.00     162,562.00    149,675.00    151,272.00 167,767.00
Operating Income                            (B)     129,874.00     137,017.00    145,145.00    151,272.00 167,767.00
-School transport Costs                     (Q)      46,000.00      50,000.00     61,000.00     70,000.00 77000 (1)
-Other Costs                                                        21,707.00
-Operating Revenue                          (R)      80,226.00      82,126.00     78,988.00     77,652.00     87,147.00
-Other Operating Revenue                              3,648.00       4,891.00      5,157.00      3,620.00      3,620.00
-Other Costs: including:                    (V)     185,623.00     205,679.00    219,310.00    219,207.00    236,806.00
*Operating Costs including                  (A)     178,846.00     191,968.00    206,953.00    208,292.00    230,406.00
*Amortization and provision allocations     (C)      25,094.00      27,818.00     31,245.00     27,615.00     35,925.00
-Staffing Costs                             (D)     101,275.00     108,425.00    115,503.00    118,778.00    128,613.00

*Income prior to compensation               (O)     (100,578.00) (114,824.00) (133,056.00) (137,935.00) (151,512.00)

*Income Compensation Net                             (54,578.00)   (43,117.00)    69,635.00    (67,935.00)   (74,512.00)


Balance sheet items
*Imobilisations net                                 611,076.00     644,314.00    755,861.00
*Permanent Jobs                                     628,147.00     666,584.00    781,366.00
*Stocks                                              12,417.00      13,587.00     16,282.00
*Current and feasible values                         60,004.00      97,546.00    140,899.00
*Current Assets                             (G)      72,421.00     111,133.00    157,180.00
TOTAL Asssets                                       700,568.00     777,716.00    938,546.00
*Revenue/endownment funds                   (J)      65,687.00      71,003.00     76,951.00
*Equity                                             (29,200.00)    (21,557.00)   (80,720.00)
*D.L.M.T.:                                  (E)     173,560.00     273,238.00    393,488.00
Including: borrowing                                172,819.00     269,870.00    387,098.00
           Stock                                        741.00       3,368.00      6,390.00
*Fixed resources (Fixed resources)          (F)     144,360.00     251,681.00    312,768.00
Short-Term Debt (current liabilities)       (H)     556,207.00     526,035.00    625,778.00
Including:
-Bank Overdraft                                      30,647.00      28,696.00     24,823.00
-Total Liabilities and equity                       700,568.00     777,716.00    938,546.00
*Overall Working Capital net (**)
*Investment
*Value added                                (I)      78,307.00     105,846.00     86,959.00
(**): (Fixed reources-Fixed empolyment
(1) School compensation for calendar year 2010
-Year 2009 and 2010: provisional budget (for May)




                                                                   31
                                                              Table 10: Société Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens (SNCFT)
Re sults                               2001                 2002                 2003                 2004                 2005                 2006                 2007                   2008

Revenue                              90,594,590.562       87,381,029.201       87,588,206.227       87,361,858.715       88,672,593.309       97,022,309.878      105,081,252.069
traffic compensation                  8,000,000.000       15,585,000.000       16,878,000.000       19,178,596.746       20,207,788.711       21,563,606.253       23,725,825.737
Other revenue                         1,002,009.953        1,020,238.430        1,370,646.546        2,041,938.934        2,116,058.142        2,430,873.908        3,129,826.068
variation of outstanding stocks         (89,838.254)         (43,529.714)        (105,463.292)         780,510.216         (136,693.523)        (529,823.077)        (111,872.834)
Fixed products                       13,268,638.399       15,245,200.336       16,240,487.085       14,196,833.399       16,290,683.291       16,699,220.983       15,731,258.122
Transport service                     1,685,996.867          892,055.978        1,140,662.584        1,108,128.541        1,577,510.218          967,149.448        1,091,306.260
Service Delivery                        520,723.430          814,784.624        1,934,069.288          465,673.625          550,985.113        1,587,732.077           395,180.48
Compensation rail                     13,000,000.00         9,000,000.00        10,000,000.00        10,000,000.00        10,000,000.00        10,000,000.00        10,000,000.00
Other compensation                                                                                                                                                   2,000,000.00
A-Total Reve nue                  127,982,120.957      129,894,778.855      135,046,608.438      135,133,540.176      139,278,925.261      149,741,069.470      161,042,775.904      167,142,467,635.000

Purchase of operated supply          36,735,396.523       34,947,990.602       35,300,907.416       31,474,618.249       34,618,550.247       43,349,892.808       47,431,223.128       50,796,048,023.000
Non-stored purchases                  4,517,940.916        3,061,029.912        3,854,151.980        3,337,037.880        2,961,975.361        3,067,981.935        3,379,837.396        3,986,301,742.000
Costs fo Employees                   67,375,560.864       69,754,962.318       70,336,684.603       72,025,499.619       73,658,884.844       75,270,769.609       77,710,486.022       82,104,196,448.000
Other operating costs                17,580,951.707       14,718,292.167       15,611,509.008       15,448,529.188       15,379,685.278       17,331,002.850       18,803,655.278       20,240,660,574.000
Equalisation                            141,165.067          132,918.075           95,819.636          143,497.843          105,570.138          109,888.795          127,902.653          247,874,300.000

B-Total Costs                     126,351,015.077      122,615,193.074      125,199,072.643      122,429,182.779      126,724,665.868      139,129,535.997      147,453,104.477      157,375,081,087.000

Gross Operating re venue            1,631,105.880        7,279,585.781        9,847,535.795       12,704,357.397       12,554,259.393       10,611,533.473       13,589,671.427        9,767,386,548.000
Reserves for depreciation +          11,927,024.175       15,680,517.297       12,593,127.774       13,914,022.997       13,847,352.254       14,666,494.980       16,084,014.343       17,321,420,553.000
Financial charges                    10,138,963.823        2,851,146.454        3,061,882.416        3,254,583.870        3,424,211.248        2,178,551.916        3,271,133.429         3,360,853,492.000

                                     22,065,987.998       18,531,663.751       15,655,010.190       17,168,606.867       17,271,563.502       16,845,046.896       19,355,147.772       20,682,274,045.000
C-Total Costs                     148,417,003.075      141,146,856.825      140,854,082.833      139,597,789.646      143,996,229.370      155,974,582.893      166,808,252.249      178,057,355,132.000

Re venue                            (20,434,882.118)     (11,252,077.970)      (5,807,474.395)      (4,464,249.470)      (4,717,304.109)      (6,233,513.423)      (5,765,476.345)      (10,914,887,497.000)

Non activity revenues                  4,765,800.86          5768788.342          4991107.452          3536017.553          3959864.986        5,407,522.400          4267632.770          2,099,665,497.00
Total Net                           (15,669,081.255)      (5,483,289.628)        (816,366.943)        (928,231.917)        (757,439.123)        (825,991.023)      (1,497,843.575)       (8,815,222,000.000)
Taxes                                     2,000.000            2,000.000            2,000.000            2,000.000           55,165.241           61,756.021           66,183.221            70,999,870.000
Re sult                           (15,671,081.255)      (5,485,289.628)        (818,366.943)        (930,231.917)        (812,604.364)        (887,747.044)      (1,564,026.796)      (8,886,221,870.000)




                                                                                                                 32
                             Table 11: Société des Transports du Sahel (STS)
Name                                                                                   31-12-2008     30-06-2009

Operating Result
                                             Operating Revenue                             14,116           7,931
                                             Operating Subsidie                            21,792          11,120
                                             Other operating Costs                          1,468             584
                                             Fixed item

Total operating Reve nue                                                                   37,376          19,635


Operating costs
                                             Purchase of operated supply                 (8,411.00)        (4,454)
                                             Costs fo Employees                         (21,122.00)       (11,915)
                                             -Amortization and provision allocations     (5,368.00)        (2,912)
                                             Other operating costs                       (2,941.00)        (1,539)

Total Operating Costs                        Total Operating Charges                    (37,842.00)       (20,820)


Operating Revenue                                                                         (466.00)       (1,185.00)

Other charges and re gular revenue
                                             Financial charges                           (1,318.00)       (635.00)
                                             Financial revenue                              343.00          17.00
                                             Other regual profits                            88.00          33.00
                                             other regular losses                            (8.00)         (1.00)

Total other charges and regular reve nue                                                   (895.00)        (586.00)
Total regular activitie s e xcluding taxes                                               (1,361.00)      (1,771.00)
                                                                                            (15.00)          (8.00)
Total Ne t                                                                               (1,376.00)      (1,779.00)




                                                               33
                                      Table 12: Société Régionale de Transports du Gouvernorat de Sfax-SORETRAS
Title                                               2001             2002            2003             2004            2005            2006             2007             2008

Revenues
  Operating Income                             13,670,682     13,053,541        12,890,177      12,788,818      12,277,250       12,656,891      12,830,522       14,115,695
  Operating subsidy                            10,570,000     12,960,000        11,745,000      14,776,000      15,829,000       18,000,000      20,129,000       21,792,000
  Other operating revenues                                     2,346,411           219,287         285,254         436,377          547,644       1,361,296        1,467,854
  Fixed production                                60,209         142,550                                              4467
Total Operating Revenue                      24,300,891      28,502,502       24,854,464      27,850,072       28,547,094      31,204,535      34,320,818       37,375,549

Operating Costs
  Final stock purchase                         (4,902,162)      (4,851,990)     (4,835,375)     (5,034,312)      (5,683,513)     (7,008,219)     (7,129,282)      (8,411,142)
  Employees compensation                      (14,450,712)     (14,168,676)    (14,771,500)    (15,820,295)     (17,062,668)    (18,458,578)    (19,730,101)     (21,122,048)
 Social rehabilitation cost                                     (2,434,993)
 Amortization and provision allocations        (4,334,494)      (4,718,839)     (5,299,954)     (5,388,618)      (4,931,787)     (4,640,790)     (5,959,826)      (5,367,597)
 Other Operating costs                         (2,332,554)      (2,403,642)     (2,631,454)     (2,457,140)      (2,832,602)     (2,676,357)      (2,794,008)      (2,941,205)
 Total Operating costs                       (26,019,922)    (28,578,140)     (27,538,283)    (28,700,365)     (30,510,570)    (32,783,944)    (35,613,217)     (37,841,992)

            Operating Revenue                  (1,719,031)        (75,638)      (2,683,819)        (850,293)     (1,963,476)     (1,579,409)     (1,292,399)        (466,443)

Other costs and Regular Revenue
  Financial costs                              (1,291,574)     (1,549,374)      (1,331,459)     (1,611,796)      (1,675,535)     (1,889,665)     (2,119,453)      (1,317,816)
  Financial revenue                               319,376         142,706          251,504         446,565          404,631           5,294          37,988          342,827
  Other Regular Income                          2,676,033       1,577,794        1,613,923       4,966,197        2,443,866       1,653,630       1,107,438           88,292
  Other Regular losses                            (34,269)         (2,901)            (640)         (2,281)            (361)           (213)         (8,049)          (7,719)

Total Other Costs and Common Revenue           1,669,566         168,225         533,328        3,798,685        1,172,601        (230,954)       (982,076)        (894,416)
Total Regular Activities Excluding axes           (49,465)         92,587       (2,150,491)      2,948,392         (790,875)     (1,810,362)     (2,274,475)      (1,360,859)
Taxes                                              (2,000)         (2,000)          (2,000)         (2,000)         (12,950)        (13,443)        (14,064)         (15,048)
Net Income                                        (51,465)         90,587       (2,152,491)      2,946,392         (803,825)     (1,823,805)     (2,288,539)      (1,375,907)
     Accounting adjustments
    Results after Accounting Adjustments       (7,030,075)         90,587       (2,152,491)      2,946,392         (803,825)     (1,823,805)      1,510,875       (1,375,907)




                                                                                              34
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending


Supervision/ICR
Siaka Bakayoko            Country Manager                   AFMGN
Karim-Jacques Budin       Consultant                        MNSSD
Abdelghani Inal           Consultant                        MNSSD
Gerhard Menckhoff         Consultant                        LCSTR
Hubert Nove-Josserand     Sr. Urban Transport Spec.         SASDT
Vincent Vesin             Transport Specialist              MNSSD
Fatiha Amar               Program Assistant                 MNSSD
Yves Duvivier             Consultant                        MNSSD

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                         17                      103.81
  FY01                                         34                      158.04
  FY02                                          4                       16.60
  FY03                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
  FY08                                                                   0.00

                          Total:               55                      278.45
Supervision/ICR
  FY00                                                                   0.39
  FY01                                                                   0.00
  FY02                                          4                       39.97
  FY03                                          7                       54.39
  FY04                                         12                       64.33
  FY05                                         15                       81.07
  FY06                                          6                       61.22
  FY07                                         10                      115.21
  FY08                                          7                       95.47
  FY09                                          6                        0.00
 FY10

                          Total:               67                      512.05

                                          35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                      36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                   37
     Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower's ICR is essentially descriptive and does not comment on the progress of the
reforms themselves nor on specific difficulties and problems encountered in carrying out the
project and particularly the reforms.

It provides a description of the project components and a summary of the objectives, inter alia
better management of public transport with better use of budget resources. It also presents the
objectives and contents of phase one of the APL. It then lists in details the achievements of phase
II, in terms of physical achievements in implementing the investments.

Railway component

The Borrower's report indicates that the Loan proceeds could not be all used, as project activities
under the third subcomponent the CTC were not launched. It highlights that all performance
indicators of SNCFT improved over 1997-2008, as expected, except the ratio of personnel costs
over revenues, which decreased only from 61 percent to 52.4%, despite the effective
implementation of the staff redundancy program. The impact of reduction in headcounts on
wages was mitigated by increases in salary levels, and revenues stagnated, as there was no
increase in volumes of phosphate transport. This is expected to change in 2010 with the additional
transport of 1.5 million tons of phosphate and 375,000 ton/year of sulphur for the new Skhira
phosphate plant. The doubling of the critical railways section carried out will remove the
bottlenecks and thus allow satisfying this additional transport demand.

The report stresses the good joint work between SNCFT and the World Bank, despite differences
between SNCFT's and the Bank's procurements procedures. It highlights the quality of Bank
advice. It points out that Bank procedures did not allow the railways subsidiary Sotrafer to
participate in the tender for the supply and installation contract of sleepers. The work was
nevertheless done by Sotrafer, which is usually very competitive, and could therefore not be
financed by the loan.

Urban transport component

STT­Bokri Depot

The Bokri depot is expected to be operational by March 2010 and to bring about significant
productivity increase.

SORETRAS-Sfax depot

The depot has resulted in an increase of availability of buses and savings, but those are not yet
fully felt as the company had not yet implemented its new bus purchase program.

STS -Sousse depot

The depot has significant impact: an increase of availability of buses, better productivity of the
technical teams and high quality maintenance work. The report discussed the problem of
construction of the depot (foundations) and the resulting 18 percent cost overrun of this depot.




                                                38
Support to the SRTGs

The setting up of a common information system for the regional bus companies was completed
by the closing of the loan and is about to fulfill its objective (modern standard information
including cost accounting). It is also expected to introduce a different company culture in the
medium term.

Transport studies

The study on interurban student transport concluded that it would be more effective to provide
incentives to the private sector to supply local accommodation to the students rather than
providing additional public transport services on many itineraries.

A large set of studies was carried out under Phases 1 and 2 of the APL for the new 2016 Greater
Tunis Transport Master Plan. It recommended additional public transport, mainly for the new
future large urban development axis planned under the Greater Tunis Urban Master Plan. It
included a number of detailed technical studies with bidding documents for a number of projects
(RFR, Light rail, bus lines, and exchange stations).

The Borrower's ICR does not provide information on the SNT subcomponents.




                                              39
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    40
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


   ·   Project Appraisal Document

   ·   Aide Memoires of preparation and supervision missions

   ·   Semi-Annual progress reports

   ·   Borrower's Implementation Report




                                            41
MAP




42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33500R

38°N                                                            8°E                                                                       10°E                                                         12°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sicily
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                    M e d iterranean                                                        Sea
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (ITALY)
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                  La Galite                                                                            St
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                               ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                 it
                                                                                                                                          Bizerte
                                                                                                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                   BIZERT
                                                                                                                   BIZE RT E
                                                                                                                                                     Gulf of Tunis
                                                                         Tabarka                               .                                                                                                              Si
                                                                                              s          Mts                                  ARIANA
                                                                                                                                                    L'Ariana                                                                       ci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ly
                                           To
                                         Algiers                                         Atla                                                       TUNIS                                                      Pantelleria
                                                                                                           Beja                                                  NABEUL                                        (ITALY)
                                                                       JENDOUBA                                                                     Ben Arous
                                       To                               Jendouba
                                                                                                           BEJA
                                                                                                           BEJ A                                 BEN AROUS
                                      Sétif                                                                                                                            Nabeul
                                                                                      ue                                                            Zaghouan
                                                                                     g
                                                                               e lle                                           ZAGHOUAN
                                                                             M
                                                                                                     SILIANA
                                                                                                     SIL IANA                                                  Gulf of Hammamet
36°N                                                                                 Le Kef                         Siliana                                                                                                                        36°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Isole Pelagie
                                                                         LE KEF                                                                      SOUSSE                                                             (ITALY)
                                                                                                                                                                     Sousse
                                       To
                                      Sétif                                                                                                      Kairouan                Monastir

                                                                                         Thala                                                                       MONASTIR                                                      Lampedusa
                                                                                                                      KAIROUAN                                                                                                       (ITALY)
                                                                       KASSERINE                                                     ud
                                                                                                                                                                                   Mahdia
                                                                          El                                                       ro                  MAHDIA
                                                                                                                               Ze
            ALGERIA                                                            Ha
                                                                                   teb                                                                 El Djem
                                                         Jabal ash Shanabi
                                                                  (1544 m)                 Kasserine                      Sidi
                                                                                                                          Bou Zid

                                                                                                         SIDI BOU                                   SFAX
                                                                                                            ZID                                                            Sfax
                                                                                                                                                                                       Kerkenna
                                                                         GAFSA                                                                                 Maharès
                                                                                                                                                                                       Islands                  Mediterr an e an
                                                                          Gafsa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Se a
                                                                                                                                                 Skhira
                                                                                                                                                      Gulf of
34°N                                                                                                                                                  Gabes                                                                                        34°N
                                                      Tozeur                                                                                                                Houmt Souk
                                                                                                                                                  Gabes
                                                TOZEUR                                                                         El Hamma                                            Djerba
                                                                  Chott el Jerid                                                                                                   Island
                       To                                                                         Kebili                   GABES
                    Touggourt
                                                                                                                                                                                      Zarzis
                                                                                                                                                       MEDENINE
                                                                                                                                             Medenine
                                                                          KEBILI

                                                                                                                                                               Tataouine

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                          Al
                                                                                                                                                               -Ji                                                  Tripoli
                                                                                                                                                                     far
      0      25        50       75    100 Kilometers                                                                                                                       ah
                                                                                                                                                                                Pla
                                                                                                                               TATAOUINE                                              in
      0           25             50           75 Miles                                                                                           Remada
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L I B YA
                                                                                                                               g
                                                                                                                          Er
32°N                                                                                                                  n
                                                                                                                  ter
                                                                                                                                                       Dehibat                                          To
                                                                                                              s                                                                                       Mizdah
                                                          8°E
                                                                                                         Ea
                                                                                                     t
                                                                                                ea
                                                                                           Gr
                                                                                                          El Borma


                  TUN I S I A                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                            Dirj



                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                   GOVERNORATE CAPITALS

                   NATIONAL CAPITAL

                   RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                             TUNISIA
                   MAIN ROADS

                   RAILROADS

                   GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES

                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                               30°N
                                                                                                                                          10°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JANUARY 2007
