Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18755
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT II
(CREDIT No. 2083-MAD)
December 29, 1998
Human Development 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At the time of Project Appraisal
Malawi Kwacha 2.65= US$1
At the time of project completion mission
Malawi Kwacha 25 = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1- March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB               Africa Development Bank
CERT               Center for Educational Research and Training
DflD               Department of International Development (U.K.)
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IDA                International Development Association
MANEB              Malawi National Examination Board
MASTEP             Malawi Special Teacher Education Program
MCDE               Malawi College of Distance Education
MIE                Malawi Institute of Education
MIITEP             Malawi Integrated In-Service Teacher Education Program
MOE                Ministry of Education
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
PSBU               Primary School Broadcasting Unit
USAID              United States Agency for International Development
Vice President     Callisto E. Madavo (AFRVP)
Director           Barbara Kafka (AFC03)
Sector Manager     Ruth Kagia (AFTH1)
Task Manager       Peter Ngomba (AFTH4)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE                                                                                  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                                      ii
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                                1
A. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND                                                        1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                                                          I
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                      2
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILrry                                                             6
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                                               6
F. BANK PERFORMANCE                                                                   7
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                                                              8
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS                                                                  8
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED                                                                9
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES                                                            10
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments                                                    10
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits                                                 11
Table 3:   Project Timetable                                                         12
Table 4:   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Credit Disbursements (US$ Millions)  13
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation                                 14
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation                                      21
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project                                               22
Table 8A: Project Costs (US$ Million)                                                23
Table 8B: Project Financing (US$ millions)                                           24
T;ible 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits                                               25
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants                                                 26
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                              28
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs 1/                                            29
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions                                                  30
APPENDIXES
A. Completion Mission's aide-memoire
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR
C. Miscellaneous appendixes:
I - List of Persons Met
2 - List of Sites Visited
3 - Sites for Primary School Classroom Rehabilitation
D. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT II
(CREDIT No. 2083-MAI)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Education Sector
Credit in Malawi (Cr. 2083-MAI), for which a credit in the amount of SDR 29.5 million (US$
36.9 million equivalent) was approved on December 12, 1989 and made effective on April 4,
1990.
2.     The Credit was closed on June 30, 1998, after having been extended twice, for one year
on each occasion. Over 99.5% of the Credit was disbursed. Final disbursement took place on
November 10, 1998, at which time a balance of about $192,000 was cancelled.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Mr. Peter Ngomba, Human Development Group of the Africa
Region with assistance from Mr. Mulugeta Wodajo (Consultant) and Ms. Anne Anglio (Team
Assistant). It was reviewed by Mrs. Ruth Kagia (Sector Manager) and Ms. Barbara Kafka
(Country Director). The Borrower had no comments on the ICR.
4.     Preparation of this ICR was started in April 1998 during the Bank's final supervision
mission. An ICR mission comprising Mr. M. Woda.jo and Ms. Y. Amde, consultants, was
undertaken between May 16-30. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of this ICR by
preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and initial preparation which is included in
the report as Annex.
5.    This report is based on material in the project files, discussions with Bank staff and
officials of the Govemment who were involved in the preparation and implementation of the
project, data collected by the ICR mission in the field and site visits to institutions assisted under
the pro.ject. A list of officials in the Ministry of Education and project institutions as well as the
sites visited by the ICR mission are included as Appendices.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT II
(CREDIT No. 2083-MAI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    IDA has been active in the education sector in Malawi since 1967. This is the seventh
education project to be completed. Two more are under implementation. In spite of considerable
assistance from IDA and other Donors, the sector still faces major constraints, particularly with
regard to improving the quality of education at all levels, expanding access to secondary
education, and generally in strengthening institutional capacity for planning, management and
implementation.
Project Objectives
2.    Statement of Project Objectives. The projects development objective was to assist the
govermment in financing the second phase (1990-95) of its ten-year Education Plan. Specifically
the project was intended to:
(a)   improve the quality of education at all levels;
(b)    expand access to primary and secondary education;
(c)    strengthen sector management, budgeting and planning; and
(d)   improve resource mobilization to the sector.
To achieve these objectives the project financed a number of interventions in primary, secondary
and post-secondary education. It also sought to address deficiencies in planning and management
of the sector as well as to introduce policy measures that would increase resources available to the
sector.
Assessment of Project Objective.
3.    While the impact and outcome of the various objectives and components were uneven, on
the whole the project was satisfactory. Many targets were reached and some even exceeded. In
particular three components aimed at improving educational quality at the primary level --
rehabilitation of primary school classrooms, preparation and distribution of textbooks and
teachers' guides, and upgrading primary school teachers through an innovative special teacher
education program (MASTEP) -- achieved or even exceeded their objectives. Following is a
summary of attainment of project objectives, grouped by component as in the appraisal
documents.
.i.



Implementation Completion Report                                     Evaluation Summary
Malawi - Education Sector Credit JI
4.     Textbook Preparation and Distribution. The project achieved highly satisfactory results
in the preparation and distribution of primary school textbooks and teachers' guides. At appraisal,
the plan was to provide textbooks in four subjects for Standards I to 4 only. Coverage was
extended to Standard 8 in the course of implementation. Over 7 million copies of pupils' books
and teachers' guides were prepared, printed through ICB and distributed. This helped alleviate
textbook shortage in the country; it also resulted in strengthening significantly the technical
capacity and expertise of the Malawi Institute of Education (MIE).
5.     Teacher Training and Upgrading. Project achievement was satisfactory in upgrading
teachling skills and academic level of over 4,000 primary school teachers through a new and
innovative program that combined short residential training with supervised teaching and field
seminars. A revised version of this model is now adopted by the Ministry of Education as the
main vehicle for upgrading primarv school teachers and is replicated by the Bank and other
donors in follow-up projects.
6.     Rehabilitation of Primary School Classrooms. The project achieved highly satisfactory
results in rehabilitating over 2,000 classrooms, almost ten times the number planned at appraisal.
In tlhe wake of a massive expansion of primary school enrollment following the abolition of
school fees by a government that came to power under a new multi-party election, the IDA's
prompt response to Government's urgent request to assist with school rehabilitation is
commendable.
7.     Improving Educational Meaxurements. The project achieved satisfactory results in
strengtlhening the Malawi National Examinations Board (MANEB) in diversifying primary
schools examinations and in increasing its computer capacity.
8.     The project's achievement was unsatisfactory with regard to the provision of equipment
and fi4rniture for primary schools and instructional materials and science kits for secondary
schools. Also, the project was not successful in strengthening school supervision. Curriculum
reform at the secondary level was not undertaken. The project was partially successful in
expanding access to secondary education by creating about 3000 student places in ten new
Distance Education Centers (DEC). But the DECs (now converted to day secondary schools) do
not have appropriately qualified teachers nor essential science equipment and instructional
materials, as a result of which the quality of instruction is not at par with the other secondary
schools in the country.
9.    Institutional Development. The project was partially successful in initiating the
inherently difficult and complex task of devolving educational management to districts and
regions. Project in-puts (e.g. provision of houses for district inspectors, local training and
seminars for teachers and supervisors) have been implemented. Government has began to
partially devolve certain functions (notably personnel and to a lesser extent, accounting) but
additional resources and concerted effort by government and others is required. Follow-up
projects by the Bank and other donors (notably DflD and GTZ) are providing additional
assistance in pursuit of this ob.jective.
10.    Resource Mobilization. The project was successful in mobilizing additional resources to
the sector. Education's share of total government expenditure exceeded targets sought at appraisal
by almost two-fold, from 11% at appraisal to 23.8% in 1994-95. School fees were increased at
iii



Implementation Completion Report                                     Evaluation Summary
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II
secondary schools and at the University. Boarding fees were also increased, and later government
introduced day secondary education as official policy. While these and other related policy
changes may not be directly attributable to the project, at the very least the project did serve as
the main vehicle for the IDA and the govemment to pursue policy dialogues for mobilizing
additional resources to the sector.
Implementation Record and Factors Affecting the Project
11.    Success in implementing the individual project activities was uneven for several reasons:
first the project's scope was too broad and extensive in relation to implementation capacity in the
sector. As a result certain components (e.g. provision of science kits and leaming materials for
secondarv schools) did not perform as well as others (e.g. primary school textbook preparation).
Second. the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was over stretched as it was completing
implcmentation of the preceding project when this project was launched, thereby delaying project
start-up. Third, at the beginning the PIU also lacked the requisite technical staff (architects,
quantity surveyors) as these positions were previously held by expatriate staff and were being
localizcd at the time. These problems were further compounded by factors largely beyond the
control of the govemment such as serious economic and financial problems in the country,
succcssive years of drought, and disruption in extemal assistance. These factors severely
constrained government's ability to release counterpart funds in a timely manner.
Project Sustainability
12.    The project is likely to be sustained for the foreseeable future. Government has
demonstrated its strong commitment to the sector by doubling its share of allocation. Also,
govement is pursuing cost saving and efficiency measures in the sector, including introduction
of day secondary schools, affordable school designs and construction, and more cost-effective
approaches in teacher education.
Borrower Performance
13.    On the whole borrower performance was satisfactory. Borrower's performance during
preparation is rated satisfactory as the borrower was actively involved in the preparation of
various studies that provided valuable in-put for preparation of the project. Though uneven,
borrower performance during implementation was generally satisfactory. After initial delays, the
PIU was able to implement the project largely as planned, although as noted earlier
implementation success was not even across components.
Bank Performance
14.    Bank performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. Appraisal results were mixed:
potential risks were appropriately identified but implementation constraints were underestimated.
Bank performance during implementation was on the whole satisfactory.
Assessment of Outcome
15.    Overall, the project's outcome was satisfactory. Three components in particular were
particularly successful: the preparation and distribution of over 7 million textbooks and
iv



Implementation Completion Report                                  Evalutation Summary
Malawvi - Education Sector Credit II
thousands of teachers' handbooks has alleviated critical shortage of learning materials and created
in-country publishing capacity at MIE for textbooks and related leaming materials: rehabilitation
of thousands of otherwise unusable classrooms has eased overcrowding; and finallv the Malawi
Special Teacher Education Program (MASTEP) has introduced a new and less costly model for
teacher upgrading. A modified version of the model has been adopted by the Ministry and
replicated by the Bank and other donors.
Future Operation
16.   To enhance and sustain the effectiveness of this project, Govemment should pursue
introduction of efficiency and other cost saving measures which are an integral part of the Sector
Investment Plan (SIP) currently under discussion. In fact, MOE is in the final stages of finalizing
a detailed Sector Investment Plan (SIP) which is intended to serve as the framework for
investment in human resources by the govemment and all donor agencies in the future. Donor
agencies active in the sector (which includes DflD, USAID, GTZ, AfDB, DANIDA, JICA, in
addition to the Bank) meet regularly with MOE officials. This has served as a useful forum for
the Gov emment to present successive drafts of the SIP for the their review and comments. In the
meantime, pending the finalization of the SIP, the Bank has approved two projects that finance
discrete investments in primary and secondary education that are manifestly within the SIP's
overall objectives and resource confines. ODA, AfDB and GTZ are doing likewise. Govemment
continues to demonstrate a strong commitment to human resource development. About 25% of
the Govemment's total recurrent budget is allocated to education, a clear testimony to that
commitment. There is virtually no scope for Govemment to increase its allocations beyond
present levels. Thus future Bank operations in the sector are taking this resource constraint into
account in designing projects that promote such measures as increased cost recovery especially at
post-secondary level, community involvement in school construction and maintenance, affordable
school designs, non-boarding secondary schools, and more cost-effective approaches in teacher
training ( such as MIITEP).
17.   Govemment should also pursue vigorously measures for retaining publishing and
reprinting rights for the textbooks that were prepared by MIE. Ownership of copyright and
publishing rights by non-govemment agencies may otherwise adversely affect Bank participation
in the financing of textbook printing through intemational bidding (ICB).
Key Lessons Learned
18.   The following are some of the lessons learned from this operation:
*  Flexibility during implementation is critical in responding to new and pressing developments
in the sector;
*  Great weight should be given to assessment of implementation capacity during preparation
and appraisal;
*  Successful institutional development initiatives require sustained assistance over a period of
time and in the course of successive projects;
*  Implementation staff (technical, managerial, financial) should be put in place before a project
is initiated.
v



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT n
(CREDIT No. 2083-MAI)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
I.    Since independence in 1964, Malawi has had to contend with a series of economic
difficulties caused in large measure by falling world prices for its exports and rapid escalation in
import prices, particularly fuel and capital goods. Also, regional political instability and civil
strife in Mozambique and elsewhere in the region closed its access to ports thereby escalating
transport costs and causing a large influx of refugees. While some of these pressures, particularly
regional instability and influx of refugees have largely abated, Malawi continues to face major
economic difficulties and remains one of the poorest countries in the continent. Notwithstanding
the above, the country has made a remarkable transition to a multi-party democracy, beginning
with the first multi-party elections held in 1994. In education too the country has made major
strides in spite of severe economic and resource constraints. The World Bank has for a long time
supported the education sector in Malawi. The first Bank-assisted project was approved in 1967.
Six additional projects have been completed since and two more are under implementation. In
spite of considerable assistance from the Bank and other Donors, the sector faces major
constraints, particularly with regards to upgrading the quality of instruction at all levels,
expanding access at the post primary level, and generally in strengthening institutional capacity
for planning, management and implementation.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
2.    The Project's development objective was to assist the Government in the financing of the
second phase (1990-1995) of its ten-year Educational Plan. Specifically, the project' s objectives
were to: (i) improve the quality of education at all levels; (ii) expand access to primary and
secondary education; (iii) strengthen sector management, budgeting and planning; and (iv)
improve resource mobilization to the sector. To achieve these objectives, the project contained
the following components: (a) Primary Education: curriculum reform and development, textbook
preparation and distribution, upgrading the quality and expanding the output of primary school
teachers. strengthening the inspectorate and examination reforms; (b) Secondary Education:
curriculum reform, improving access, provision of textbooks, library books and science kits; (c)
Post-Secondary Education: staff development at the Faculty of Commerce, and modest expansion
of output of accountants; (d) Institutional Development: devolution of key educational services to
the districts and regions; (e) Resource Mobilization: increasing education's share of the
govemment budget and reforms in fee structure in schools and at the University.
1



Implementation Completion Report                Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II
3.    The Development Credit Agreement was amended on July 29, 1993 to reflect the
reallocation of the proceeds of the Credit, following the Government's decision to drop the
component on Primary School Broadcasting Unit (PSBU). This decision was based on the
findings from pilot phase of the program which demonstrated that PSBU was unsustainable. The
funds released were reallocated mostly to finance textbook preparation and distribution for
additional grades (standards 5 to 8).
Achievement of Project Objectives
4.    The project objectives were responsive to the country's needs, and in as much as the
project financed specific investment costs of the second phase of the country's educational plan,
they were consistent and fully integrated with the country's development plan. The project' s
components were too broad and extensive as they covered virtually the entire sector, from
expanding access to primary and secondary schools, teacher training/upgrading, curriculum
development, production/distribution of textbooks, to mention the main areas assisted under the
project. In retrospect a simpler and more focused project design would have been more in line
with the implementation capacity in the country. The project was designed as a sector investment
operation aimed at implementing certain policy reforms, and proceeds of the credit were to be
disbursed as the reforms were implemented. The policy reforms sought (such as increasing
education's share of total govemment budget, increasing tuition, boarding and other school fees),
were achieved ahead of schedule, thereby preempting the need to tie disbursement to those
changes.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Experience
5.    On the whole the project's implementation record was satisfactory, though uneven with
some components doing better than others. On account of the devaluation of the Malawi Kwacha
against the SDR, over US $41 million was available to the project (the total sum of the credit was
$36.9 million) and 99.5% of that (or US $ 41.2 million) was disbursed. The remaining amount
(about US$193,000) was canceled. The closing date was extended twice (for one year each time)
to allow for delays in the start up of the project and in order to complete components that were at
advaniced stages of implementation. The PIU took its experience with previous projects into
account to ensure that the classrooms, staff houses and other civil works were simple and
functional in their design and their construction was of acceptable quality. With the exception of
two or three small contractors whose contracts had to be canceled and retendered for their
persistent delays and poor performance, the contractors on the whole performed well and were
supervised on a regular basis by technical staff from the PIU.
Achievement of Project Objectives
6.    As a whole the project was satisfactory in achieving its development objectives. Three
components, rehabilitation of primary school classrooms, preparation and distribution of
textbooks and teachers' guides, and upgrading of primary school teachers through an innovative
special teacher education program (MASTEP) achieved or even exceeded their objectives. Details
of achievements of the various components, grouped by sub-sector, are discussed below.
2



Implementation Completion Report                  Part 1: Project Inpletnentation Assessment
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II
Primary Education
7.     Curriculum Review, Textbook Preparation and Distribution. Following an intensive
review of primary school curriculum, the project assisted the preparation of instructional material
based on the new curricula. Project achievement with regards to the preparation, production and
distribution of primary school textbooks and teachers' aids was highly satisfactory. At appraisal,
the project envisaged the provision of textbooks and teachers' guides in the four principal primary
school subjects (namely, Chichewa, English, Arithmetic and General Studies) for only Standards
I to 4. In the course of project implementation, coverage was extended to include standards 5
through 8, utilizing funds reallocated from the component for school broadcasting which was
dropped. The technical capacity and expertise of the staff at the Materials Production Unit of MIE
was strengthened substantially, enabling MIE to successfully complete the preparation and trial
testing of over 63 titles of manuscripts for Standard I to 8 pupils' books and teachers' guides until
Camera Ready Copy (CRS). Over 7 million copies of pupils' books and 208,000 copies of
teachers' guides were printed through ICB and distributed to schools through the PIU and the
District Education Offices.
8.     Teacher Training and Upgrading. Project achievement in upgrading primary school
teachers was satisfactory. A total of 4,300 primary school teachers (compared to the appraisal
target of 4,500) were provided in-service courses to upgrade their teaching skills and academic
level through a special teacher training program, known as the Malawi Special Teacher Education
Program (MASTEP) developed under a previous project (Cr. 1767). The program consisted of a
three-year program that combined short residential courses at teacher training colleges with
supervised teaching in primary schools and seminars in the field. Learning modulcs prepared
specifically for the program covering both content and teaching methods were utilized,
supplemented by handouts and taped lectures. The program received positive ratings by an DflD
mid-term evaluation team in 1994 as well as by CERT at the conclusion of the program. The
projcct was also successful in expanding the output of pre-service teachers training by expanding
the capacity of Montfort Teacher Training College from 160 to 540 places.
9.     Primary School Radio Program. At appraisal, the project contained a provision for
improving primary school radio programns. Technical assistance (12 staff years) wore provided for
establishing a Primary School Broadcasting Unit (PSBU) and for training Malawian counterparts.
The project envisaged a pilot test to measure the cost-effectiveness of the program as well as
annual evaluations. Following the result of the pilot test, the Government concluded that the
recurrent cost implications of the program would be unsustainable if the scheme were to be
replicated at a national level and decided, with the Bank's concurrence, to drop the component
altogether.
10.   Improvement in Measurement vfAchievement. The project's achievement was
satisfactory in assisting the Malawi National Examinations Board (MANEB) in developing and
incorporating standardized multiple-choice items as an integral part of the primary school leaving
examinations. The project expanded MANEB's computer capacity and provided Malawian senior
as well as junior technical staff with expertise in the field of tests and measurements. Expatriate
technical assistance staff planned under the project was instead provided by DflD.
11.    Primary School Supervision. The project's achievement to strengthen primary school
supervision was unsatisfactory. The Government provided 30 inspectors (through redeployment
of staff) as planned, and 60 motorcycles were procured from the proceeds of the credit, but the
3



Implementation Completion Report                  Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II
inspectors were unable to undertake frequent inspection visits because of shortage of recurrent
budget. The Govemment and the Bank are pursuing a more intensive strategy to strengthen the
inspectorate in a follow-up project.
12.    Primary School Rehabilitation. The project's achievement in rehabilitating primary
school classrooms was highly satisfactory. At appraisal, the project intended to provide roofing
sheets to 228 unroofed and unusable primary schools. With the sudden and massive expansion of
primary school enrollment in 1994 (over I million additional children were admitted to primary
school in just one year when school fees were abolished). The Bank responded by expanding the
scope of this particular component to include not just re-roofing but a complete rehabilitation of
unusable classrooms almost ten times the original number. Over 2,000 classrooms were provided
with newv roofs, their floors were resurfaced in most cases, and their overall structure strengthened
by providing them with concrete (or in some cases steel) beams. As a result the classrooms
improved not only qualitatively, but were able to accommodate an estimated 100,000 additional
pupils. The devaluation of the Malawi Kwacha against the SDR enabled the Government and the
Bank to successfully complete this undertaking.
13.    Furniture and Equipment. The project's achievement in the provision of firniture and
equipment was unsatisfactory. Only a negligible amount (about 4%) of the furniture planned at
appraisal was provided (3,000 out of a planned 75,000). As a result of the massive expansion of
primarn school enrollment, the Government's highest priority was provision of classrooms.
Funds allocated for this component was used for classroom rehabilitation.
Secondary Education
14.    The project's achievement in expanding access to secondary education was partially
satisfactory. Ten new two-stream Distance Education Centers were completed, thereby creating
3,200 new student places. MOE has converted the Centers into day secondary schools, consistent
with new policy changes in secondary education. The quality of instruction, however, is not at par
even with other Malawi secondary schools, as the institutions lack laboratories and secondary
school textbooks. The project's achievement was unsatisfactory regarding curriculum reform,
provision of instructional materials and strengthening school inspection at the secondary level as
very little was done in these areas beyond preliminary seminars, procurement of few science kits
and a limited number of library books. Vehicles procured under the project for school inspection
are facing the same problems encountered by the district officers at the primary school level;
namely. a lack of adequate funds for fuel and maintenance.
Post-Secondary Education
15.    The project's achievement in its assistance to the Faculty of Commerce at the Polytechnic
(University of Malawi) was partially satisfactory. Under the twinning arrangement with the City
University of Dublin (CUB), and the University of Saskatchewan, staff taught various courses in
the areas of finance, management, marketing and small business enterprises at the Faculty of
Commerce for a total of 12.5 staff-years. Lecturers from the Faculty of Commerce undertook
post-graduate studies in management and finance-related fields at CUB. Only the fellowship
(staff training) component of the twinning arrangement with the University of Saskatchewan was
implemented. These staff exchange anld training schemes together with the local teaching
materials developed by the visiting staff and teaching equipment (mostly computers) procured
4



Implementation Completion Report                Part I: Project Irnplementation Assessment
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II
under the project have helped to improve the quality of the Faculty of Commerce. There was also
a modest expansion of output of accountants, from 50 to 65 per year. Due to a high staff turnover
as well as inadequate funding for research, the Faculty of Commerce has yet to develop into a
mature academic community of students and scholars.
Institutional Development.
16.    The project's objective to strengthen educational management at the regional and district
level was partially attained. With the help of project in-puts, particularly local training, seminars,
of operating costs and staff houses for district inspectors, MOE was able to initiate the first phase
of its decentralization plan. Accounting and personnel functions are being devolved to regions
and districts and some fifteen zones have been established to facilitate the work of school
inspectors and supervisors. Sustained assistance over a longer period of time, as well as concerted
effort and commitment on the part of govemment is required to attain full scale decentralization.
Follow-up projects by IDA and other donors (notably DflD and GTZ) are pursuing these
objectives with additional assistance to help strengthen district and regional education offices.
Resource Mobilization.
17.   The project sought to implement policy changes which would increase the resources
available to the sector. The main policy objective in this regard was to increase education's share
of total govemment recurrent budget from about 11% at appraisal to 15% by 1994-95. This
objective was attained, and even exceeded as education's share stood at 23.8% of total
Govemment recurrent expenditure bv 1994-95 and about 25.2% in 1997-98. The other policy
chaniges aimed at increasing tuition fees in secondary schools and at the University. increasing
boarding fees and discontinuing provision of free exercise books and writing materials in
secondarv schools. These policy changes have been partially attained. Tuition and boarding fees
were increased in secondary schools and at the University. With regard to boarding, the
Govcmment went farther to adopt day secondary education as official policy. Free provision of
exercise books was discontinued in 1991 but reinstated in 1995 when primary schools fees were
abolished by the new govemment under a multi-party system. Some of those policy changes may
not be directly attributable to the project, but the project did serve as the main vehicle for the Bank
and the Govemment to pursue policy dialogues for mobilizing additional resources to the sector.
18.    Factors not generally subject to government control. Malawi continued to face serious
economic and financial constraints during the period the project was under implementation (1990-
1998). These included two major droughts (1992 and 1994) and falling tobacco prices. These
setbacks cumulatively resulted in a loss of more than 25% in annual GDP, according to Bank
estimatcs. These constraints were further compounded by disruption in extemal assistance that
lasted I 8 months (1992-1994) as donors reacted to poor govemance and the need for political
democratization.
19.    Factors generally subject to government control. In 1994 a major macroeconomic crisis
developed in the months preceding the first multi-party elections in the country resulting in deep
depreciation in the exchange rate and falling public revenues. Remedial actions were instituted by
the Govemment with the help of the IMF and the situation improved, though it continued to
remain fragile. As the govemment's financial constraints worsened, it was forced to introduce
"cash budgeting" which meant that Govemment could release funds on a monthly basis equal to
5



Implementation Completion Report                 Part : Project Implementation Assessment
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II
the amount of revenue collected the previous month. This exacerbated the local funding situation
for the project as the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) found it difficult to pay civil works
contractors the local share (20%) of their contracts. Further, the abolition of school fees in 1994
and the resulting massive increase in school enrollment (total primary school enrollment grew by
over I million pupils in just one year) added an excessive burden to an already over-stretched
MOE. Various organs of MOE, including the PIU, were asked to provide assistance (e.g.
construction material, technical services), thereby adding additional burden to their regular project
implementation duties.
20.    Factors subject to the control of the project implementation unit. At the beginning, the
PIU did not have the requisite technical staff with the appropriate qualifications (architects,
accountants, quantity surveys, etc.) Also, the Unit was still involved in the implementation of the
final phases of the First Education Sector Credit (Cr. 1767). Inevitably, implementation of this
project was delayed by these factors. Starting in 1992, a full contingent of technical staff
(includinig an experienced project manager) were appointed and, with the completion of Cr. 1767,
the pace of implementation picked up significantly.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
21.    The project assisted institutions were an integral part of MOE and of the sector as a
whole. Hence, their sustainability is closely linked to that of the sector as a whole. Taking several
factors into consideration, the project is likely to be sustained for the foreseeable future. The main
factor that enhances the project's sustainability is the Govemment's strong commitment,
exemplified by the large and rapid increase of its allocations to education and the social sectors
generally. Allocations for education have increased by more than two-fold over the last decade,
from about 11% of total recurrent budget in 1988/89 to about 23.8% in 1994/95 and 25.2% in
1997. While these increases will enhance the system's sustainability in physical and quantitative
temnis Govemment recognizes the need to introduce additional measures to upgrade the quality of
education to an acceptable level, and is pursuing those policies. These include: increased cost
recovery at post-primary (and especially post-secondary) level, community involvement in school
constniction and maintenance, more day secondary schools, more affordable school designs and
construction, and more cost-effective approaches in teacher training. These policy objectives have
been incorporated in the Govemment's Policy Investment Framework for the sector which is at an
advance stage of preparation by Govemment in collaboration with the Bank and other donors,
including USAID, DfID, and GTZ. Follow-up Bank projects (Primary Education, Cr. 2810-MAI
and Secondary Education, Cr. 305 1-MAI) have also incorporated various features of those policy
measures.
E. BoRROWER PERFORMANCE
22.    On the whole, the Borrower's performance during project preparation and implementation
was satisfactory. As part of project preparation, the Borrower updated its public expenditure plan
for the second phase of its ten-year development plan, and articulated its policy reform strategies
and action plan. These were attached as annexes to the staff appraisal report. It also prepared the
first phase of its plan to decentralize education services to regions and districts. The Borrower's
perfomlance during implementation was on the whole satisfactory. During the early stages of
implementation, the PIU did not have the full complement of qualified technical staff, including
an architect, accountant or procurement officer familiar with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
6



Implementation Completion Report                Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II
The situation was greatly improved during the second and third years of implementation when
Govenmment hired with project funds Malawian technical staff with the requisite qualifications
(two architects, a quantity surveyor, an accountant/financial analyst as well as an experienced
project manager).
23.    The PIU regularly sent semi-annual progress reports that proved valuable for Bank staff to
monitor implementation status. On the whole, the PIU prepared annual project accounts on a
timely manner but auditing of the accounts by the Government and hence annual audit reports
faced persistent delays. Counterpart funds were often delayed and slightly below planned
amounts: total govemment contribution amounted 8% of project costs (instead of 10% as
originally planned). In view of the major devaluation of the Kwacha during the period the project
was implemented (from MK4 to the US$ at appraisal compared to MK25 to the dollar at project
completion), the Government made a serious effort to meet its counterpart obligations.
24.    Beginning in 1996, in an effort to standardize the terms and conditions of staff hired in
Bank-financed projects in Malawi, the Govemment, with the Bank's concurrence, introduced
revised salary scales which in some instances were lower than what some PIU technical staff were
paid from project funds at the time. This led to the resignation of two key PIU staff (project
accountant and an architect). In addition, as part of the Bank's efforts to strengthen project
implenmentation capacities of line ministries, the Govemment and the Bank agreed on new
implementation arrangements (that included subcontracting certain activities such as civil works
to private contractors). Accordingly, the two follow-up projects which were approved in 1996
and early 1998 (before the closing date of this project) are being implemented by a small unit
directly under MOE instead of the PIU. The PIU however will continue to implement other
donor-funded projects (including those of AfDB).
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
25.    Bank performance during preparation was satisfactory. A detailed analysis of the sector
including costs and financing was prepared and served as the basis for discussion with the
government regarding funding levels for the sector. At appraisal several potential risks were
identified including: budgetary constraints, and relatively weak implementation capacity,
especially at the district and regional levels. Measures that were expected to mitigate those risks
were identified, but in retrospect the Bank was too optimistic especially about implementation
capacity in the sector.
26.    The Bank's performance during supervision was satisfactory. Supervision missions were
mounted regularly. Judging from the aide memoires and other documentation those missions left
in the field, the Bank has provided timely assistance and guidance to the borrower in the course of
project implementation. The Government's decision to drop a major component (PSBU) was
arrived during supervision in 1993, following a detailed costing of the project and evaluation of
the pilot phase of that component. As a result, the government was able to reallocate the funds
released to higher priority areas in time to prepare and distribute textbooks for Standards 5 to 8,
which were not provided for originally.
7



Implementation Completion Report                  Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
27.    Overall, the project's outcome was satisfactory. This is especially the case as regards
meeting the quantitative targets. The project had impact particularly in the following three areas:
a) developing institutional capacity at MIE for the development of primary school textbooks and
teachers' guides, b) rehabilitation of primary schools, and c) implementing a new and innovative
mode for training primary school teachers (MASTEP).
28.    Primary school textbooks. The project has assisted MIE in acquiring institutional
capabilitv for: (i) designing new curricula and syllabi on which the new textbooks were based; (ii)
writing/developing new instructional materials; (iii) designing and illustrating textbooks using
some of the latest desk-top publishing skills; and (vi) providing in-service training for teachers in
the use of the new books. This was achieved through internal training, study tours/attachments,
procurement of desk-top publishing facilities and provision other facilities such as staff houses,
vehiclcs and some operating funds. Rehabilitation of Primary Schools. At the time the project
was appraised, this was a relatively small component intended to re-roof 228 classrooms and
about 400 teachers' houses. However, when school fees were abolished in 1994 resulting in a
massive increase in primary school enrollment, construction and rehabilitation of classrooms
became MOE's most pressing concern. Accordingly, the project provided a timely assistance in
this regard with the rehabilitation of over 2,000 classrooms in all parts of the country. The
Government's contribution to this ICR specifically identifies this component as having made "a
vers big difference in the lives of the pupils". Teacher Training. The MASTEP program had a
major impact in the sector not only in terms of providing in-service training for over 4,000
primarv school teachers, but especially in inaugurating a new approach for upgrading teachers.
Hitherto, teacher training was done mostly through residential courses that sometimes lasted two
years or more. MASTEP's strategy of upgrading teachers through a combination short residential
courses supplemented by in- school supervised teaching and seminars in the field is now well
accepted in the country and was replicated, with some modifications, in the new Malawi
Integrated In-service Teacher Education Program (MIITEP) currently under implementation under
a follow-up project Bank-financed project (Primary Education) as well as by projects funded by
others donors, DfID and GTZ in particular.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
29.    MOE is in the final stages of finalizing a detailed Sector Investment Plan (SIP) which is
intended to serve as the framework for investment in human resources by the govemment and all
donor agencies in the future. Donor agencies active in the sector (which includes DflD, USAID,
GTZ. AfDB, DANIDA, JICA, in addition to the Bank) meet regularly with MOE officials. This
has served as a useful forum for the Govemment to present successive drafts of the SIP for the
their review and comments. In the meantime, pending the finalization of the SIP, the Bank has
approved two projects that finance discrete investments in primary and secondary education that
are manifestly within the SIP's overall objectives and resource confines. ODA, AfDB and GTZ
are doing likewise. Govemment continues to demonstrate a strong commitment to human
resource development. About 25% of the Govemment's total recurrent budget is allocated to
education, a clear testimony to that commitment. There is virtually no scope for Govermnent to
increase its allocations beyond present levels. Thus future Bank operations in the sector are
taking this resource constraint into account in designing projects that promote such measures as
8



Implementation Completion Report                 Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
Malawi - Education Sector Credit I!
increased cost recovery especially at post-secondary level, community involvement in school
construction and maintenance, affordable school designs, non-boarding secondary schools, and
more cost-effective approaches in teacher training ( such as MIITEP).
30.    Toward the end of project implementation, the Bank learned that publishing and re-
printing rights for some of the textbooks developed under the project had been transferred to
private publishers. While in principle the Bank has no objection to private sector participation in
textbook publishing and printing, it has expressed its concern to MOE that this was done without
clear and open competition, and may therefore adversely affect the Bank's future participation in
financing procurement of textbooks following ICB procedures.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
31.    A number of lessons can be drawn from the experience of implementing the project, of
which the principal ones are as follows:
•  Flexibility in Project Implementation. Flexibility during implementation is critical in
response to new and pressing developments in the sector. The Bank demonstrated flexibility
in responding to the government's urgent request for rehabilitating 2,000 classrooms, almost
ten times than had been planned at appraisal. This has been duly acknowledged in the
government's contribution to this ICR and confirms the critical importance flexibility in
project implementation. There was also flexibility in concerting school broadcasting in light
of the results of a pilot program undertaken.
-  Simplicity in Project Design. Great weight should be given to assessing implementation
capacity in the sector and the project should be kept simple and focused where
implementation capacity is a concern The project was designed as a sector wide operation
with a large number of components. This was a common feature for Bank education projects
at the time (late 1980s). Implementation capacity in the country did not allow for some
components (e.g. secondary education) to be given the same level of effort on the part of the
Borrower as the other components (e.g. primary and teacher education).
*  Institutional Development. Successful institutional development initiatives require
sustained assistance in the course of successive projects. This was the case with the Malawi
Institute of Education which had benefited from Bank assistance over three or four Bank
projects in the course of at least ten years.
*  Implementation Staff.   Implementation of this project underscores the need to have a full
complement of implementation staff in place before a project is launched. The Project
Implementation Unit did not have technical staff with the requisite qualification (architect,
quantity surveyor, accountant) when the project was initiated. This resulted in delaying
project start-up by more than a year, which in turn resulted in the need to extend the closing
date by two years.
9



PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Substantial    Partial...   Negligible  - Not Applicable
A. Achievement of Objectives
macro policies                                              X
sector policies                               X
financial objectives                          X
institutional development                     X
physical objectives              X
poverty reduction                             X
gender issues                                 X
other social objectives                                    X
environmental objectives                                                   X
public sector management                      X
.____________ _  Likely  Unlikely     Uncertain   _
B. Project Sustainability         X
Highly     Satisfactory    Deficient     Highly
Satisfactory                            Unsatisfactory
C. Bank Performance
identification                                X
preparation assistance                        X
appraisal                                     X
supervision                                   X
D. Borrower Performance
preparation                                   X
implementation                                X
covenant compliance                           X
operation                                     X
E. Assessment of Outcome                        X
10



Implementation Completion Report                                    Part lI: Statistical Annexes
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
- .. .. -- -. ...,,.-- C:redit  -:,,.,, Achievement/Purpose         Year of.-- Amount-  Statu S
Approval    US$
102-MAI        Secondary school expansion, primary teacher training,    1967      Non       Closed
introduction of technical subjects in secondary schools            available  3/80
590-MAI        Primary teacher training, expansion of secondary education  1975   Non       Closed
and establishment of "model" primary schools                       available  6/82
9 1 0-MAI      Expansion and improvement of primary education; expansion  1979    14.5      Closed
of primary teacher training: expansion of                                    5/86
correspondence/distance learning facilities: establishment of
Institute of Education (for teacher upgrading) and
strengthening educational management and planning
1123-MAI      Enrollment expansion in secondary schools, and increased  1981      41.0      Closed
Fourth         output of secondary school teachers from the university was                   12/86
Education      achieved. The National Education Plan was successfully
Pro,ject       completed and was put to good use.
1330-MAI      Expansion of primary teacher training, secondary school   1983      30.9      Closed
Fifth          enrollment including MCDEs and enrollment of accountancy                      9/90
Education      students was successfully achieved. Heavy reliance on
Pro,ject       expatriate staff for project implementation was noted.
1767-MAI      Primary school expansion and quality improvement:         1987      27.0      Closed
First          expansion of secondary schools; and institutional                             12/93
Education      development.
Scctor Credit
Following Operations
2810-MAI       Improve the quality of primary education by providing     1996     22.5      In
Primary       teaching and learning materials, and pedagogical support to                   progress.
Education      in-service training for untrained teachers.                                   1999 is
Project                                                                                     the
scheduled
closing
______________                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~date.
2856-MAI       Poverty alleviation through the construction of demand-driven  1996  56.0    In
Malawi Social  social infrastructure (including schools)                                    progress.
Action Funld                                                                                2001 is
the
scheduled
closing
date.
M W-PA- 1670)  Expand access tlrough constniction of secondary schools;  1998     48.2      In
Secondary     improve educational quality secondary schools through                         progress.
Education      provision of teaching and learning materials; improve                        2003 is
Project        efficiency and effectiveness of the secondary education system               the
by strengthening school-based management through training                    scheduled
strengthen project implementation capacity through technical                 closing
assistance; support Governmcnt's policy to encourage private                 date.
secondary schools, and provision of training and materials to
I stem the spread of HIV/AIDS among teachers and students.
I1I



Implementation Completion Report                                Part Il: Statistical Annexes
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II
Table 3: Project Timetable
Projet Phase-        P-anneid                           Actiua Date
Identification Mission          March, 1988                   March, 1988
Preparation Mission            October, 1988               October 1-21, 1988
Appraisal Mission           February/March, 1988              March, 1989
Negotiations                  September, 1989             September 6-10, 1989
Board Approval                December, 1989               December 21, 1989
Signing                         March, 1990                   April 6, 1990
Credit Effectiveness           April 19, 1990                April 19, 1990
Completion Date              December 31, 1995             December 31, 1997
Closing Date                   June 30, 1996                 June 30, 1998
12



Implementation Completion Report                                    Part I1: Statistical Annexes
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II
Table 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Credit Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
Bank FY-      -  1990    1991   1992   1993   1994   1995 -1996   1997   1998
Estimate               0.0     4.9    12.9   24.9   30.9   35.9   36.9                       l
Actual                 0.0     4.1    10.3   13.7   17.1   19.5   27.4    33.8           41
Actual as % of Estimate  0     84%   , 80%    55%    55%    54%    74%         92%    111%
Date of Final            November 10, 1998
Disbursement                                                                          . 
Note: Actual disbursements are given as their historical US$ equivalents. The current cumulative
disburscment exceeds the total value estimated at appraisal, due to fluctuations of the Malawi Kwacha and
the US dollar against the SDR.
13



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                                           Part II: Statistical Annexes
Malawi - Education Sector Credit 11
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
COMPONENT                                  UNIT              SAR            ACTUAL                              COMMENTS
...... . ...... ......ESTIM AT
'                                                                                                        '    '   ''- ' '   ' -   '  ' '   '   'i' .! ''' . . . ....................... . F j j ... !. i F s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..   . .. ..
Curriculum Revision, Material Development, and In-
Service  Training  (M IEE)__ _ _ _ _ _                                      __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
TA for specialists in reading                             Staff-years       2                None                Already had staft in place.
TA for specialist in evaluation                           Staf'f-years      2                None               Already had staff ini place.
Local staff                                               Position          3                None                Funds used to train local staff:
Provision of staff houses                                 Number D p6                        6 6n-
Vehicles (including one bus)                              Number            2                2
Teaching/Learning Materialsrst
Development and Production of Texts and Guides Std 1-4                      Standard 1-4    63 titles,           Used diverted funds from the broadcasting component.
only            Standards 1-8
- teachers' guides (by standard/type)                     Number                             208,000
- text books (by standard/type)                           Number                             7,214,000
Appoint Publishing Manager                                Staff-years       4                5
Appoint an editor with Desktop Publishing (DTP)           Staff-years       4                2                   Expatriate TA for 2 years only
experience.__                                                _  _ _  _ _    __  _ _  _ _ _   _ _   _ _  _ _  _
Purchase PC's                                             Numdber           2                3                  Addition of Stds 5-8 required an additional computer
Purchase AT computer equipped with DTP facilities         Number            1                2                  Addition of Stds 5-8 required an additional computer
Sets of low-cost, local, simple teaching aids for Standard I  Number (sets)  3,000           13,000             Major expansion of Stds/enrolhnent
I Develop, produce and distribute a new series of teachers guides and textbooks for Std 1-4 in Eng., Chich. and Math and Gen0Science for Std 24. Later extended
to include Stds 5-8 when the component for primary school broadcasting was dropped.
14 



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                             Part 11: Statistical Annexes
Malawi - Education Sector Credit 11
COMPONENT                             UNIT             SAR           ACTUAL                          COMMENTS
ESTIMATE                                                                      ..
Teacher Training
In-service training using special program being developed  Number   4.500          4,300             Weak supervision. Some dropouts and dismissals.
under Credit 1767-MAI                                                                                Helped in designing the MIITEP program. Cost higher
than anticipated due to salary increase and allowances.
Expert assistance in education tech                 Staff year       1             None              None required.
Short-term fellowships for college tutors           Stafl year      2              None              Not carried out.
Fund operating costs of the program                                  For 1 year    Yes
Fund salary of the project Director                                 Yes            Yes
First year cost of the salaries for the trainees                    Yes            Yes
Part of the subsequent salary costs of trainees with MOE            Yes            Yes
absorbing trainees' salaries on a sliding scale.
MOEC assessing trainees' performance and retaining only             Yes            Not undertaken    Substituted by other studies done by CERT (refer to
those with satisfactory performance in the teaching force.                                           Table 7).
Expand an existing Teachers' Training College (Montfort   Number of  360           380               Enrollment is usually higher than official rates.
College)                                            Additional                                       Enrollment increased from 160 to 540.
Places
Two vehicles for the Teacher Training College (Montfort   Number     2             2                 One bus instead of another type of vehicle requested and
College)                                                                                             granted.
Continuous assessment of learning                                   Yes            Partially done    MANEB does continuous assessment of learning
Improve the School Broadcasting System
Development of New Programs (for new curriculum)                     Pilot only    Consult. for pilot. Consultants hired for the pilot
Expansion in broadcasting facilities at MBC                                        Not undertaken    Component dropped before it went full scale
Solar powered radios                                Number           5,000         60                                                     .
TA to develop system & train local counterparts     Staff-years      12            2                  "
Running costs of program with Government absorbing the               Yes           Yes               Credit Funded during pilot.
cost on a sliding scale
Yearly evaluation                                                    Yes           Yes               Evaluation for pilot phase only.
15



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                               Part H1: Statistical Annexes
Malawi - Education Sector Credit 11
COMPONENT                              UNIT            SAR           ACTUAL                           commENTS
ESTIMATE
Improve the Measurement (if Achievement at the
Primary Level (MANEB)
Testing and measurement specialist to develop national  Staff-years   2              2*                ODA funded for 3 years before credit effectiveness.
assessment test, train local counterparts
Funds for upgrading the computer system for                          Yes             Yes
administration of the assessment test.
Availability of local staff to work with the consultant               Yes            Yes               I senior stalf & specialist trained a junior staff
Primary School Supervisionz
Provide recurrent costs to 30 additional inspectors  Number           30             30*               Done via redeployment within the system; thus part of
Government's recurrent budget.
Provide 60 motorcycles                              Number            60             60                Bought in 1991 and out ol'commission now.
Roofing sheets
Roofing sheets for unroofed classroom blocks         classroom        228            841 blocks (2,218  Over 75% of the classrooms were rehabilitated fully in
blocks                          rooms)            addition to provision of roofs.
Roofing sheets for teachers houses in rural areas                    406            None required     None required
Furniture and Equipment
Low cost chairs and desks for Standards 1-8         sets              75,000         3,000             Due to bad per'ommance, contract was terminated and
(3,000 classrooms, each class with 25 sets)                                                            time ran out. Following massive primary school
expansion in 1994, Government concentrated on
classroom construction
2 Govemment would take over the funding of the salaries of the inspectors gradually beginming in the third year. In addition, the Government would arrange for
servicing of the vehicles by vehicle maintenance depots.
16



Implemnentation Completion Report                                                                                             Part II: Statistical Annexes
AMlalawi - Education Sector Credit II
ESTIM  .T                                                 . .
SECONDARYLEVEL:
Expansion of Access
New double-stream Distance Education centers & furniture  Number     - 10 DECs      - 10 DECs         The 10 DECs provide 3,200 new places, though
- 10 Staff    - 40 staff houses.  enrollment may be up to 50% more. All have been
Houses                          converted to day secondary schools. 30 more staff
houses (4 per DEC instead of 1) have been constructed.
3 contractors defaulted. Issue of too low bidding,
leading to escalated cost when retendering. The Bank
should reconsider its lowest bidding procedure,
according to PIJ.
Curriculum Revision and Instructional Materials
Provision (MIE)
Workshops for secondary curriculum review by MANEB    Number         Not specified   I workshop for    No major progress done, due to shortage of funds. The
one week for 120   budget requested was too big.
persons.
Development, Production and distribution of low-cost                 Not specified   Study            Study undertaken, but no local production of kits.
science equipment and kits                                                          undertaken.       Instead 50 complete science kits were bought via ICB.
50 kits provided
3 months training w/in Africa for 5 technicians     Statt years      1.25           Refer to study    MIE requested to do study tours and in-service training.
tours, in-service
training below
Study tours and attachments                         staff years      None           2.5               Added at the request of MIE
In-service Training                                 number           Not specified   190              150 writers, 20 editors, 15 artists/illustrators and 5
typesetters.
Restocking of school libraries                      Number           Not Specified   - 9,360 Math &   2 out of 11 subjects (Math and English) bought.
-50,160 English    Requested number of books per subject was large.
books           I
Training program for school librarians                               Yes            Not undertaken    Trainee librarians not selected in time
17



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                              Part II: Statistical Annexes
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II
_ .               .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
(~~OMPoN~.NT         UNIT             SAR           ACTUA         .        .MMNT
Supen,ision
Vehicles to be located at Regional Education Offices for    Number   6              12 vehicles w/    Procured as planned
supervision by Faculty of Education when supervising                                basic parts.
teacher trainees                                                                    -6 for inspectors
-6 for Adm.n.
Faculty of Commerce                                                                           _
Technical assistance                                Staff-years      12             12.5             In accounting, finance, management, marketing and
small business enterprises.
Overseas fellowships under a twinning plan with an  staff years      15             16
overseas university
Provision of business computers, software with peripheral  Number    15             75                Included refurbishing the computer rooms.
equipment
Increase in the number of local graduates in finance and    Number                  From 50 to 65
accounting                                                                          students per year
Production of locally based case-studies                             Yes            Handout form      Can be easily bounded and passed on.
Review and refomm of teaching curriculum in accounting               Yes            Partially         Progress slow due to staff turn-over.
and finance                                                                         completed
Strengthen locally based lecturing capacity                          Yes            No                No incentive for Malawian lecturers to undertake non-
teaching assignments
Nomination of link coordinator at both universities                  Yes            Yes
Fumished quarters for visiting TAs                                   Yes            Yes
Annual reports                                         _             Yes            Yes
18



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                              Part II: Statistical Annexes
Alalawii - Education Sector Credit II
COMPONENT                                                                                             COEUNT - AR  - CTUAL  CO ET.
ESTIMATE
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Strengthen Education Management
Operational costs of workshops to assist in accounting               Yes            Yes               Workshop were funded by the project
decentralization
In-service training of headmasters and principals in school          Yes            Yes               Done by MPEMBA, MIM and MIE
management techniques
Fund modest staff houses in rural areas for district school   Number  28            28                District Inspector Houses completed in each of the 28
inspectors and three regional coordinators of the special                                             districts
primary teacher training program.
Salaries of accounting and staff development personnel for  Number   21             21*               Government paid as established posts.
the regional offices
MOE carries out the first phase of its decentralization plan                        Yes               Personnel, Accounting and Inspectorate functions were
____________                     partially decentralized.
MOE implements the new rules for admission to standard                              Yes               Rules for admission were instituted.
1, and repetition
MOE adopts a plan to reduce the scope of the curriculum                                               Not carried out due to fund shortage.
for secondary schools
Strengthening Education Planning
Finance for a series of short-term Consultancies3   Staff-years      2              2                 Some funding from the credit, but mostly financed by
UNESCO and USAID.
Fund salaries for tive years of 4 education planners within  Staff -years  20       20*               Government paid as established posts. Problem of high
the Planning section of the Ministry, including one senior                                           turnover of planners persists.
staff, and one responsible for monitoring and evaluation.
Fund an additional position of a statistician       Number           1              1                 Government-paid as established post.
3 years in-service training to diploma level for 10  Staff-years     30             No               No follow-up.
additional statistical assistants at he University
Short courses for the Planning Unit                                  Yes            Yes               Through project funds and USAIDD.
3Consultancies are to assist in locally organized workshops aimed at improving the quality of the planning process at the national, district, and regional levels.
19



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                                       Part II: Statistical Annexes
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II
COPNN                                        UN.                 _.ATA                                ~MET
|                                 ., k,0   2z  k    t=nhx t- RSSS  ....... -I Si-iO,,0-- 0X.,,.,. ,. m . " g,0 , t..............  ...   .........   ...i E
Strengthening PIU
TA of an architect                                      Staff-years       4               8                   For two architects.
TA of a quantity surveyor                               Staff-years       4               6.5                 Contract extended when project closing date was
extended
Fellowships (5 architects, 5 QS in African University)  Statf-years        10             3.5                 Only for Architect
Operational expenditure for project administration                        Yes             Yes                 Stationery, fuel, car maintenance, recurrent costs
excluding local salaries
Support of the school maintenance unit of the PIU                         Yes             Yes                 Septic tanker, and some recurrent costs.
TA for financial analyst                                Staff-years       2               2
Funding for Projects Manager                            Staff-years       5                6.5                Contract extended when project was extended
Short courses locally and w/in Africa -                 Staff-weeks       Not specified   80                  Mostly local seminars
TA for a full time researcher                           Statf-years       3                3
Short term research Consultancies                       Staff-rnonths     6               6
Funding of the operating costs of the CERT              Years             3                3                  Research related funding only.
Fund on-going research on primary school quality and                      3 studies        12 studies         The 3 mentioned studies were undertaken by MOE;
tracer studies of secondary school students, and new                                                          CERTIUSAID/UNICEF and CERT/MIE. Instead, other
studies on gender differences in school achievement and                                                       researches were undertaken (see Table 7 below).
on the factors affecting absenteeism with particular
attention to the timing of the school year
* Note: These components were not undertaken through the credit
20



Implementation Completion Report                                                                               Part I: Statistical Annexes
Malawi - Education Sector Credit ll
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Project Impact to be Maintained       Follow-up Actions Being Taken                Issues Outstanding
1. Teacher Training-Upgrading
A modified and improved version of the    Under a follow-up project (Primary  The residential component of MIITEP is
new model for upgrading teachers      Education Project), IDA in collaboration   progressing well. The field training and
introduced under MASTEP has been     with other donors is assisting the    supervision component of the program
adopted by MOE as the country's main  Government in implementing the Malawi  need further strengthening.
vehicle for in-service teacher training.  Integrated In-service Teacher Education
Program (MIITEP), a modified version of
MASTEP.
2. Provision of Primary School Textbooks
Provision of over 7 million textbooks and   Under a follow-up project (Primary  Additional books will be needed to
over 200,000 teachers' guides prepared and  Education), textbook distribution is being  replace lost-damaged books. Other
distributed under the project has alleviated  strengthened; also seminars on effective   donors (e.g. Canada) will be assisting
textbook shortage.                   use of textbooks were organized for   with copies reprinting of additional
teachers throughout the country      copies to help with enrollment
expansion and for replacement of
damaged-lost books..
3. Provision of Primary School Classrooms.
Project provided-rehabilitated over 2000    Additional 1,600 primary classrooms  Government to implement effective
primary school classrooms and over 3,000  (each with a capacity 50 pupils) and 9,600  school maintenance policy for the new
new places in Distance Education Centers.  secondary school places are being  (and existing) schools.
provided under two follow up projects
(Primary Education and Secondary
Education Projects).
4. Resource Mobilization
Education's share of total government  Education's share of government budget   Education's share of budget unlikely to
budget was increased almost two-fold  has been maintained or even increased a   go beyond the present level (25.2 % of
between 1989 and 1995-6 (original project  little since 1995. Follow-up Secondary   total government recurrent expenditure
closing date). Likewise, tuition and  Education Project is financing day   in 1997-8). Mobilizing resources from
boarding fees were increased in secondary  secondary schools, following the  private sector and parents will need to be
schools.                             govemnment new policy to no longer    pursued vigorously.
provide boarding.
21



Implementation Completion Report                                       Part I: Statistical Annexes
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
:- Prpose as   -    - StatisE Impact or Std
Dfnedait-
Derined at App raisal___________
1) Research on primary school                    Comipleted by MOE      Used for GOM's Sector
quality and tracer studies of                                            Policy Study
secondary  school students        _______ __________
2) Stutdies on gender differences in              Comipleted, by CERT,  Piloting of gender
school zachievement                              USAID, and UNICEF   streamning, preparation of
GABLE project.
______ _____ ______ _____ ___   _ ______ ____   ______ _____ _____ Still  on-going.
3) Factors affecting absenteeism                  Completed by CERT    Change in the academic
with particular attention to the                  and MIE                year from September to
timing of the school year        ______    ________January.
Rederined-5
1) Secoindary School Quality Study               Completed by MOE       Under review by MOE
2) Education Inputs That Make a                   Completed by MOE    Under review by MOE
Differenice or Influence Quality  _______and CERT
3) MASTEP Evaluation Study                        Completed              Used to plan the new in-
service primary teachers
____ ____ __  ____ ___ ____ ___ program
4) The 10-year (1984-1994)                        Completed              Helped in the preparation
Education Plan Evaluation Study                                          of the Policy Investment
__________       Framework (PMF
5) Double Shift at Secondary                      Completed              Study under review by
Educaition Level                                                         MOE.
6) Double Shift at Primnary                       Completed              Study under review by
Educaition Level                                                        MOE.
7) The Rate of Change in the                      Completed by MOE      Not utilized efficiently.
Newly Recruited Temporary                         and CERT              Impact yet to be
Teachiers in Adopting Survival                                          assessed.
Skills__                                             _ _ _  _ _ ___         _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _  _
8) Ani Alternative to the Current                 Completed              Along with the USAID
Distribuition Pattern of Educational                                     study, led to the creation
Materials to Schools                             _________of Supplies Unit
9) Secondary School Discipline                    Completed             Helped MOE develop
Study                                                                   rules of conduct for the
_____ ____ ____ ____ _____ ____ ____ ____ ___   _ ____ ____ ____school  system .
4Nneof the 12 studies listed were included during Implementation. The topics of the other 3 were
mentioned but purpose not clearly defined.
5Noe:All but 2 and 9 were jointly done with the Ministry of Education Headquarters
22



Implementation Completion Report                                   Part II: Statistical Annexes
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ Million)
Category           SAR Estimate           Revised Estimate             Actual
GoM    IDA    Total   GoM    IDA    Total   GoM    IDA    Total
Civil Works           0.7     7.4     8.0     0.7    7.2      7.9     2.4    16.3    18.7
Equipment,            0.4    11.9    12.3     0.4    13.9    14.3     0.1      9.1     9.2
Funiitre, Vehicles,
Books and
Materials      _ _
Architectural and     0.1     0.6    0.6      0.1     0.3     0.4     0.2      1.2     1.4
Engineering
Services
Technical                     5.1     5.1             3.9     3.9       0      3.2     3.2
Assistance
Trainiing including   0.2     1.9    2.1      0.2     2.1     2.3     0.3      1.1     1.4
Fellowships
Project               2.6     9.5    12.1     2.6     4.1     6.7     0.4    10.4    10.8
Administration and
Recurrent costs
Unallocated      I   0.1 l   0.6      0.7     0.1     5.3     5.4       0       0       0
TOTAL                 4.1 l  36.9   41.0      4.1    36.9    41.0     3.3    41.3    44.7
Note:  Numbers may not add up due to rounding
Fluctuation between the SDR and US$ explains the differences in total project cost.
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ millions)
Appraisal Estimate                     Actual
(US$ million):                  (S$ million).
IDA                          36.9                             41.2
Domestic Contribution                  4.1                              3.3
TOTAL                           41.0                            44.5
Note:  Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
Fluctuations between the SDR and US$ explains the difference in the amount financed by IDA.
23



Implementation Completion Report
Malawi - Education Sector Credit 11
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Cost-benefit analysis was not done and a net present value or an economic rate of return
were not calculated
24



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                                                Part 11: Statistical Annexes
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
DCA Refemence                    Desip tion of Covenant                      Covenant   Present   Origin    Actua,    Comment
.   Type:    : Stats    al Date    Dae
Artide 1, 1.01 (a)   Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later   9     C                                  Complied with.
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association. the Borrower shall prepare and fumish
to the Association a report or such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution
of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the
Development Credit Agreement the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the
Accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
2.02 (B)             Borrower to establish and maintain in U.S. dollars a Special    I      C                                   Complied with.
Account in a conmercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA
4.01 (a)             Borrower to maintain records and accounts in accordance  I             C                                   Complied with.
with sound accounting practices.
4.01 (b)             Borrower to have all records accounts, including the Special    I      CD                                  Complied with but not on a timely fashion; also
Account, to be audited each year by independent auditors                                                  scope and detail of the audit reports not always
acceptable to IDA, and to furnish audit reports of adequate                                               adequate.
scope and detail, no later than six months after the end of the
Government's fiscal year.
4.01 (c)             For withdrawals made on the basis of statement of       I              C                                   Complied with but not systematically.
expenditures (SOEs), Borrower to maintain all records
evidencing such expenditures; to allow IDA missions
reasonable access to those records; and to provide annual
audits as per Parm 4.01 (b).
Schedule 4, Para. 1    Borrower to use Project Coordinating Committee established    12     CP                                 Partially complied with. Committee was established,
under First Education Sector Credit for the coordination and                                              but meetings were not held on a regular basis.
monitoring of the policies contained under the sector
I program.
25



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                                       Part I: Statistical Annexes
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II
DCA Reference                  Description of Covenant                  Covenant   Present  Origin    Actual                          Comments--
Tvpe        Status    at Date    Date
Sdcedule 4, Paz- 4    By April 30, 1990, MOEC to prepare and submit for IDA s    9    C                                On the whole complied with. Plan for assessing
review a plan to determine the performance of trainee                                              performance of teacher trainees was prepared. But
teachers; by July 30, 1990, MOEC to complete the                                                   govemment decided to use local teacher education
preparation of appropriate teaching modules: and to hire a                                         experts.
teacher education specialist and to identify other short-term
consultants.
Schedule 4, Para. 5    Borrower and IDA to undertake annual review of   10            C                                Complied with but not formally.
implementation progress by July 31 of each year, at the
latest.
Covenant:                                                                                          Present Status
1= Accounts/audits                          8= Indigenous people                                   C  = covenant complied with
2=  Financial performance / revenue          9=  Monitoring, review, and reporting                 CD= complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries           10= Project Implementation not covered                CP= complied with partially
3=  Flow and utilization of project funds         by categories 1-10                               NC= not complied
4=  Counterpart funding             11= Sectoral or cross sectoral budgetary
5=  Management aspects of the Project             or other resource allocation
or executing agency                     12= Sectoral of cross-sectoral policy/
6=  Environmental covenants                       regulatory/ institution action
7= Involuntary resettlement                  13= Other
26



lmplementation Completion Report                                          Part ll: Statistical Annexes
AMalawi - Education Sector Credit II
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Stateme-:t                                      Comment
Nuimber and Title  - _:_ _ _. _-_._:_:
OD 10.60          The Bank requires appropriate accounting policies to ensure accountability for all funds of
Accounting,       the borrower and submissions of audited financial statements for each fiscal year from the
Financial         date agreed at negotiations.
Reporting, and
Auditing          Accounts have been maintained for the project.
OD 13.10          The Bank requires Borrower compliance with audit reporting and details the scope of
Borrower          coverage by the audits.
Compliance with
Audit Covenants   Audits were submitted for all the years though with some delays.
OD 6.30           The Bank expects the Borrower to demonstrate commitment to the project by contributing
Local Cost         10% minimum (net of taxes and duties to the project)
Financing and
Cost Sharing      The Borrower's contribution amounted to 8% of total project cost as compared to the
projected level of 10% projected at appraisal.
OD 13.25          The Bank allows, on an exceptional basis, some or all of the project savings to be used to
Use of Project    finance additional project activities not included in the original project description,
Cost Savings      provided that implementation of the project is satisfactory (including substantial
compliance with the Agreements), the activities proposed have high priority and are
consistent with project objectives, and that they have been fully appraised by bank staff,
and financing these activities does not violate country limits on cost sharing.
The Development Credit Agreement was amended on July 29, 1993 to reflect the
reallocation of the proceeds of the Credit, following the Govemment's decision to drop
the component on Primary School Broadcasting Unit and other anticipated savings. The
total amount that was reallocated was about SDR 2.8 million, of which half was utilized
for extending the scope of the textbook component, and the remaining was mostly used for
construction and /or rehabilitation of additional primary school classrooms. This
flexibility in project implementation allowed the Bank to respond to high priority issues,
including the large influx in primary enrollment following the abolition of school fees in
1994 leading to an acute shortage of classrooms, teachers and related school in-puts.
OD 13.30          The Bank may approve for selected disbursements covering only part of a project to
Extension of      permit (a) implementation of some mutually agreed, high priority contracts; (b) the
Closing Dates     extension of the validity of letters of credit covered by a special commitment of (c)
provision for retention payments, when the conditions for release (e.g. completion of
performance tests or expiration of a warranty period) are met after the closing date.
Closing date was extended twice on April 2, 1996 and April 30, 1997 because of delays in
project start up and to complete components that were at advanced stage of
implementation..
OD 13.55          The Borrower prepares and makes available to the Bank its own evaluation on the
ICR Preparation   project's execution and initial operation, cost and benefits, the Bank's and Borrower's
performance of their respective obligations under the loan agreement, and the extent to
which the purposes of the loan were achieved, adopts a plan for the operational phase of
the project and assists the Bank in ICR preparation.
The Ministry of Education prepared its own evaluation of the project's achievements (the
I report is attached to the ICR) and participated in the ICR preparation with the Bank team)
27



Implementation Completion Report                                  Part H1: Statistical Annexes
Malawi - Education Sector Credit 11
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs l/
Stage of Project Cycle            Actual
Weeks       US$'000
Pre-Appraisal             105.0       95.2
Appraisal-Negotiations    37.1         72.8
Supervision              151.6       443.6
Completion               12.3         11.9
TOTAL                    306.0        623.5
I/ Source: MIS - World Bank
The MIS shows planned resources data for only FY96-FY98
28



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                           Part H1: Statistical Annexes
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of      Month       Number   Days in    Specialized Staff   Implementa  De} elopm                        Types of Problems
Project Cycle    IYear         of        Field    Skills Represented    tion Status       ent
Persons                                                    Impact
Preparation     10/1988     10          21        2 Economists, 5
Education Specialists, 2
Architects, Financial
Specialist
Appraisal       3/1989      9           21        2 Economists. 4
Education Specialists, 2
Architects, Financial
Specialist
Board to        1/1989 -    3           9         Economist, Education
Effectiveness   4/1990                            Specialist, Architect
Supervision     10/1990     3           12        Economist, Education                              PIJ management. Autonomy of MCDE, PSLC
Specialist, Architect                            Examination.
Supervision 
Supervision     2/1991      4           13*       Economist, 2 Education  2            1           Need to recruit a Project Manager TA. Inadequate
Specialists, Architect                           development budget allocated to MOE by Finance
Supervision     6/1991      3           11        Economist, Education                              Govermnent Budget issues. TA at MIE. Delay in the
Specialist, Architect                            appointment of Planners/Statisticians.
Supervision     9/1992      4           14*       2 Education Specialists,  2          1            Cost escalation in implementing the MASTEP program.
Architect, Operations                            Sustainability of the PSBU, and possible
Analyst                                          recommendation to the Bank that funds allocated for
PSBU be reallocated to other components.
Supervision     3/1993      2           12*       Education Specialist,    2           1            Dropping of the Broadcasting component due to cost
Educational Quality                              and sustainability, and possible reallocation of project
Specialist                                       funds. Counterpart contribution. Lack of clarity in the
.   objectives and mission of MCDE Centers.
Supervision     10/1993     2           16        Education Specialist,    2           1            Strengthening the PIU (through TA provision).
Textbook Specialist                              Reducing MIE's cost of manuscript development and
the need to expedite and streamline MIE' s work
program. Textbook sustainability issue (textbook
revolving fund). Status of the "twinning arrangement
between the Faculty of Commerce and overseas
universities.
29



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                                         Part II: Statistical Annexes
Malawi - Education Sector Credit !!
4-Sta,: o-    l -M ihtiSionth-   Number                     a Days in  S    ali  dStaff    I menta    )vep                m&   ye  of fPoblems
Project Cycle       Wear           of        Field    Sil ls Represente          tdon Status        eDt
: .  _  i  i:i :Persons                                                 ___________      Im pact     ___E_________A___E_______i_E_E_________E_E
Supervision       2/1994       2             14*        Education Specialist,                                  Donor coordination. Implementation status.
Economist (Division
Chief)                 _
Supervision       10/94         1            5          Education                S               S             Implementation Review, AU Statimg issues
Supervision       2/1996        1            19*        Education Specialist     S               S             Government's request for extension of project closing
date due to the delay in some project activities. Issue of
the PIU phase-out. Change in salary scales at PIU
leading to the resignation of key staff. Issue of granting
reprinting rights to private publishers.
Supervision       5/96          1            4          Procurement Specialist   S               S             Procurement issues; bid document preparation
Supervision       12/1996      2             6          Textbook Specialist,                                   Issue of granting reprinting rights to private publishers.
Economist
Supervision       2/1997       1             21 *       Education Economist                                    Extension of project closing date.
Supervision       6/1997       6             24*        Education Economist,    S                S             The reasons for significant cost increase at Montfort
Text Book Specialist,                                  College. Non-performance of one MCDE contractor.
Procurement Specialist,                                The issue of the reprinting and publishing rights granted
Architect, Economist,                                 to private publishers under controversial conditions.
Technical / Vocational
Specialist
Supervision       10/97        8             17*        Education Economist,    S                S             Delay in counterpart funding.
Procurement Specialist,
Education Specialist, 2
Economists,
Implementation
Specialist, Community
Participation Specialist
Supervision       2/1998       5             12*       Education Economist,    S                 S            Need to expedite final resolution of the issue of
Text Book Specialist,                                 reprinting and publishing rights granted to private
Procurement Specialist,                               publishers. Implementation acceleration / planning for
Architect, Economist                                   all outstanding activities.
Supervision       4/98         1             2         Economist                 S               S            Final supervision; ICR start up
Completion        6/98         2             11         Educator, Economist                                   Field visit to project institutions, discussion with project
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   and   M O E     staff
* combined with other missions
30



APPENDIX A: Mission's Aide-Memoire*
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT II (CR 2083 MAI)
'rhe World Bank                                   Devebpm entHouse       Tot: (265) 780.11
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND oEVELOPMENT  P.O. Box 30577    Fax: (265) 781-1 58
tNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION             Lilongwe 3              lIx: 44829
MALAWI                 Cable: WORLD 8K
May 28, 1998
Dr. S Safuli
Secretary for Education
Ministry of Education
Lilongwe, Malawi
Dear Dr. Safuili:
Education Sector Credit 1I (Cr. 2083)
Implementation Completion Mission (May 18-30, 1998)
On behalf of the World Bank, let me first express our thanks and appreciation for
the fiull cooperation and support that was given to Mr. M. Wodajo and Miss Y.
Amde by the staff and officials of your Ministry and the Project lmplementation
Unit during their two-week stay in Malawi in connection with the above.
referenced mission,
The mission has discussed its findings with you and your staff at the final wrap-up
meeting that you kindly chaired on May 28, 1997. A full Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) containing the Bank's experience in the implementation
of this project and the lessons derived from that experience is under preparation,
As you know the Government too will be contributing a section to the ICR
summarizing from its own perspective its experiences and lessons learned. The
ICR will be forwarded to the Ministry of Education when completed.
In the mean time I am attaching a summary tablothat was prepared by the mission
comparing appraisal targets with what was achieved at project completion for the
various components. 'I'he summary table shows that at least in quantitative terms,
the project has on the whole attained the specific targets set down in the appraisal
documents. Perhaps, the project's impact in the areas of institutional development
(such as strengthening the Planning Department of MOE, the Inspectorate,
Decentralization of Educational Services, etc.) may have been less tangible, but
we realize that those objectives are being pursued under follow-up Bank-assisted
projects such as the Primary and Secondary Education Projects (Cr. 2810 and
305 1, rcspectively) in addition to other bilaEcral donors.
Page I of 2
RCA 24a423. WU WUI 64145  FAX (202) 4774391



Implementation Completion Report                                                       Appendix A
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II                                         Mission 's Aide-Memoire
Dr. S. Sauli                                   -2-                       Mav 28. 19'.:
During the wrap-up mceting the mission had rcitcratcd the Bank's conccrn
regarding the award to commercial publishers of publishing/reprinting rights for
the various lextbooks and teachers' guides that were prepared with funding from
this project. To the bcst of our undcrstanding thc award was made without open
competition. As we have indicated in previous communications, this would make
iL extremcly difficult for the B3ank to finance the procurement of those titles in the
fiuture as long as this is the case.
._.--tncerely,
James Smith
.-     Acting Representative
World Bank Resident Mission
' The table was discussed in detail at the wrap-up meeting and served as the mission's aide-memoire. An updated
version of that table appears as Table 5 of the ICR.
Page 2 of 2



APPENDIX B: Borrower contribution to the ICR
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT II (CR 2083 MAI)
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWERS PERSPECTIVE.
The Project comprised four parts, these are:-
PART A: PRIMARY EDUCATION
Components relating to primary education:
PART B:
Components relating to secondary education;
PART C:
Post-secondary education
PART D:
Components relating to institutional development
Although approved in April 1990, the Project Implementation activities did not effectively start until October
1991 because of the overlapping implementation activities from 5th IDA and First Education Sector Credit.
The late start inevitably affected the completion date of the project, 30th June, 1998 instead of 30th June,
1996.
1.    Strengthening MIE's capability in curriculum development, materials development and in-service
training through technical assistance, the recruitment of additional staff, the construction of about 6 low-cost
staff houses and the acquisition of two vehicles.
2.    (a) The development, production and distribution of teachers' guides and textbooks for the first four
standards of the primary school system including the acquisition of microcomputers.
(b) The acquisition of about 3,000 sets of own-cost teaching aids for use in standard - I classes.
3.    (a)   In-service training of about 4.500 teachers including the award of fellowships.
(b)    Expansion of a teacher training college by an increase of about 360 student places.
4.    Improvement of the of the school broadcasting system through an expansion of SBUs broadcasting
facilities, the acquisition of about 5,000 radio-cassette players and training.
5.    Improvement of MOE's capability in the measurement of achievement at the primary school level
through training and up-grading of the computer system.
Page 1 of 7



Implementation Completion Report                                                  Appendix B
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II                              Borrower contribution to the ICR
6.    Strengthening MOEs supervision capability through the recruitment of about 30 additional inspectors
and the acquisition of 60 motorcycles.
7.    Acquisition of:
(a)    Roofing materials for about 228 unroofed and;
(b)    Fumiture and equipment for about 3,000 classrooms.
PART B: SECONDARY EDUCATION:
Components relating to secondary education:
1.    Construction, furnishing and equipping of about ten new double-stream MCDE centers.
2.    Revision of the secondary school curriculum and the development, production
and distribution of low-cost science equipment and kits and improvement of school libraries through training,
fellowships, and the acquisition of books.
3.    Strengthening of supervision capability of regional education of fices through the acquisition of about
six vehicles.
PART C: POST-SECONDARY EDUCATION
Strengthening the faculty of commerce of the University of Malawi through technical assistance, fellowships
and the acquisition of computers, including appropriate software and related equipment.
PART D: INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Components relating to institutional development:
I .    Strengthening of MOE's capacity to manage the education system through:
(a)    Training, workshops and the construction of about 28 staff houses in rural areas;
(b)    Training to strengthen MOE's Planning Section; and
(c)    Awarding of fellowships and training to strengthen PIU.
2.    Strengthening CERT to carry out educational research for both primary and secondary school
systems.
A.    OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT:
The objectives of this project, were categorized into four parts as follows:
PART A: PRIMARY EDUCATION
Components relating to primary education:
Page 2 of 7



Implementation Completion Report                                                  Appendix B
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II                               Borrower contribution to the ICR
1.    Strengthening MIE's capability in curriculum development, materials development and in-service
training through technical assistance, the recruitment of additional staff, the construction of about 6 low-cost
staff houses and the acquisition of two vehicles.
2.    (a) The development, production and distribution of teachers' guides and textbooks for the first four
standards of the primary school system including the acquisition of microcomputers.
(b)    The acquisition of about 3,000 sets of own-cost teaching aids for use in standard - 1 classes.
3.    (a) In-service training of about 4.500 teachers including the award of
fellowships.
(b)    Expansion of a teacher training college by an increase of about 360 student places.
4.    Improvement of the of the school broadcasting system through an expansion of SBU's broadcasting
facilities, the acquisition of about 5,000 radio-cassette players and training.
5.    Improvement of MOE's capability in the measurement of achievement at the primary school level
through training and up-grading of the computer system.
6.    Strengthening MOE's supervision capability through the recruitment of about 30 additional
inspectors and the acquisition of 60 motorcycles.
7.    Acquisition of:
(a)    Roofing materials for about 228 unroofed and;
(b)    Furmiture and equipment for about 3,000 classrooms.
PART B: SECONDARY EDUCATION:
Components relating to secondary education:
1.    Construction, furnishing and equipping of about ten new double-stream MCDE centers.
2.    Revision of the secondary school curriculum and the development, production
and distribution of low-cost science equipment and kits and improvement of
school libraries through training, fellowships, and the acquisition of books.
3.     Strengthening of supervision capability of regional education offices through
the acquisition of about six vehicles.
PART C: POST-SECONDARY EDUCATION
Strengthening the faculty of commerce of the University of Malawi through technical assistance, fellowships
and the acquisition of computers, including appropriate software and related equipment.
PART D: INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Page 3 of 7



Implementation Completion Report                                                   Appendix B
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II                               Borrower contribution to the ICR
Components relating to institutional development:
I .    Strengthening of MOE's capacity to manage the education system through:
(a)    Training, workshops and the construction of about 28 staff houses in rural areas,
(b)    Training to strengthen MOE's Planning Section; and
(c)    Awarding of fellowships and training to strengthen PIU.
2.    Strengthening CERT to carry out educational research for both primary and
secondary school systems.
B:    STATUS REPORT/ACHIEVEMENTS
PART A:
1.    The primary school curriculum and textbooks were executed resulting in printing new textbooks for
the new curriculum for Standards I to 8. Originally, there was provision for printing for only Standards I to 4,
but when the school radio component was phased out at the pilot stage, there was enough money to print the
books for Standards 5 to 8.
2.    The schools radio was phased out after the pilot stage because it proved to be too costly to be
sustained.
3.    Mastep ran for two years and closed in September 1993 after graduating 4,200 students.
4.    641 classroom blocks comprising 2,218 classrooms have been re-roofed. The rehabilitation of the
primary school classrooms is a major component in Part A and has made a very big difference to the lives of
the pupils who were learning in the open air and subjected to harsh winds and rains.
5.    Montfort has been expanded from 160 to 540 student places. Library and textbooks, a lorry and a bus
have also been provided to the expanded College.
6.    60 motorcycles and 6 vehicles were purchased to improve the mobility of the supervision staff.
PART B:
I .    I () Double-stream MCDE Centers have been constructed with four teachers houses at each Center.
2.    Secondary School Curriculum revision was started but not completed due to lack of adequate time
and funding.
3.    Six vehicles were purchased to strengthen the supervision by the Regional Education Offices.
PART C:
Page 4 of 7



Implementation Completion Report                                                   Appendix B
AMalawi - Education Sector Credit II                              Borrower contribution to the ICR
I .    Technical Assistance and Fellowships at the Faculty of Commerce, the University of Malawi,
brought seven lecturers through Dublin City University in Ireland and provided eight fellowships at
Saskatchewan University for eight fellows and four scholarships at Dublin City University for four fellows
from the Faculty of Commerce, University of Malawi.
2.    75 computers including software and furniture have also been supplied to the Faculty of Commerce
tc augment effective teaching.
PART D:
I .    28 staff house, one at each education district have been erected.
2.    Center for Education Research and Training for both primary and secondary school systems carried
out the rescarch on all the issues which were given to them. Their results served as a guide to the Ministry on
all Policy Issues.
3.    Six staff houses were constructed at MIE to house personnel for the curriculum and textbooks
development.
4.     Computing equipment and a bus were purchased for the MIE.
C.  PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED DURING THE COURSE OF THE IMPLEMENTATION
I .    Duc to the late start of the implementation activities, PIU was under considerable pressure to speed
up the implementation activities in order to compensate for the lost time. This did not yield any positive
results. Consequently, the closing date of the project was extended from 30th
June 1996 to 30th June, 1998.
2.    Thc Bank's insistence on new bidding and tendering procedures took up valuable time as the project
staff had to study and learn how to apply them.
3 .    Awards of contracts after Evaluation Report had been submitted to the Bank took too long and very
often were referred to and from because of differences in the perceptions of the new bidding documents and
evaluation of bids. A good example in this connection is the five
MCDE Ccnters i.e. Dowa, Nguludi, Mapanga, Dzurnila and Mkanda.
4.    Dce aluation of the Malawi Kwacha hit the implementation very hard. The Malawi Kwacha fell more
that 300%' within a period of 12 months and brought in wide spread inflation. Malawi imports most of the
building material. Hence, the implementation slowed down and the costs went up.
5.     High failure rate among small-scale contractors who were on the Second Education Sector Credit
jobs resulted in re-tendering and long delays in completing the projects.
6.    The Bank's changed attitude towards the future of the PIU led to the loss of two senior staff. These
were: - the Financial Analvst and the Senior Architect. PIU could not replace them because with the changed
conditions and terms of employment, no high calibre professionals could be attracted to the two vacant
important posts at the PIU. Disappointingly, PIU had to continue implementing the project without the
required number of key personnel.
Page 5 of 7



Implementation Completion Report                                                  Appendix B
Malawi - Education Sector Credit !!                              Borrower contribution to the ICR
7.    Delays in replenishing the Special Account crippled the PIU from time to time because the
contractors could not be paid timely. This trend was further complicated by applying recovery 100% towards
the end of the Credit, leaving only a balance of 2 1,000US$ in the Special Account
against the competing claims totaling 350,000US$. This was disastrous. This is where discretion should
prevail against rigidity of keeping to written procedures which never take into account special circumstances.
8.    Heavy incessant rains during the wet seasons adversely affected progress on the construction works
because verv often the sites became inaccessible due to the damaged roads and washed-away bridges.
9.    There was no permission of field supervision on the Mastep program, so that the distance modules
assignments were not properly followed.
C.     BANK'S FACILITATING ROLE IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT.
1.    Frequent Supervision Missions which included Procurement Specialists greatly guided and assisted
the project staff in implementing the project efficiently.
2.    Timely payments to the contractors and suppliers by the Disbursement Department in Washington
contributed enormously to the project implementation.
3.    Minimum tumover of the Bank's personnel supervising the project was most commendable and did
not waste uay valuable time. The two closing-date extensions granted by the Bank i.e. from 30th June, 1996
to 30th June. 1997 resulted in a very satisfactory completion of the project.
D.    LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE PROJECT
I.    Procedures in procuring works, goods and equipment should not be unilaterally changed by the Bank
within the life-span of a project because such changes impose a new learning curve on the project staff. The
learning curve takes time and leads to delays in completing the
project.
2.    When recovering the Special Account towards the end of the project, the Disbursement Department
at the Bank should ensure that the project is left with adequate funds to meet all the claims coming in. For
example, the replenishment application Number 84 SPAC was recovered 100%, leaving the project without
any funds to meet the pending claims from the contractors and suppliers amounting to 348,385.3 1US$. This
was most unsatisfactory and should be avoided in future.
3.    The insistence by the Bank that contracts should be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder,
irrespective of the recommendations from the project staff, has led to delays in completing Dowa, Dzumila,
Mapanga, Nguludi and Mkanda DECs. After the failure of the first contractors,, we
had to re-tender the jobs at these sites twice and in some cases thrice which led to paying three times more
than we would have paid had the first recommendations from the project staff been accepted.
4.    The high failure rate among the small-scale contractors was considerably reduced after holding
frequent orientation seminars on effective management of projects.
5.    It is advisable to award most of the civil works contracts during the dry season in order to avoid
interruptions and delays due to incremental weather conditions.
Page 6 of 7



Implementation Completion Report                                                   Appendix B
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II                               Borrower contribution to the ICR
6.    The Mastep program was a great success. It enabled us to train a large number of teachers within a
short period. The lessons learned in the implementation of this program guided us in the preparation of the
current MIITEP program. It is also training teachers through a combination of residential component and
distance component.
7.    The provision of 60 motorcycles did not take into consideration the problems of fuel and
maintenance of those motorcycles. As a result, most of them are damaged and can not be repaired. Unlike
vehicles, motorcycles need to be attached to individual officers if they are to be
properly looked after.
Page 7 of 7



APPENDIX C: Miscellaneous
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT II (CR 2083 MAI)
1 - List of Persons Met
Ministr. of Education (MOE)
> Dr. S.D. Safuli, Permanent Secretary
- Mr. S. Chamdimba, Director, Planning Unit
> Mrs. E.L. Juwayeyi, Planner, Planning Unit
Project Implementation Unit (PIUj
> Mr. G.J. Chiundira, Projects Manager
>  Mr. H.K. Mkwezalamba, Deputy Projects Manager
>  Mr. E.S. Msiska, Projects Architect
>  Mr. W.S. Macheso, Quantity Surveyor
>  Mr. G.S. Msyali, Quantity Surveyor
>  Mr. R.J. Guja, Procurement Officer
>  Mr. D.C. Luwanda, Building Superintendent
>  Mrs. E. Nyirenda, Assistant Procurement Officer
>  Mr. H.B. Mandiwa, Principal Accountant
>  Mr. M. Thawani, PIU, Blantyre
Malawi College of Distant Education (MCDE)
> Mr. V. Chalila, Principal
> Mrs. B. Masauli, Deputy Principal
> Mr. Bishop Muwowo, Principal Tutor
Faculty oJ Commerce at the Polytechnic
>  G.B. Mthindi, Dean, Commerce
>  C. Sichinga, Accountancy Department
>  0. Cosgrove, Accounting Department (TA)
>  M.C. Mtambe, Business Administration
>  J.K. Khomba, Accountancy
>  B.J. Ndhlou, Accountancy
>  M.J. Shonelin, Project Link Coordinator
Centerfor Education Research and Training (CERT)
> Dr. K. Mwale, Director
Malawi Special Teachers' Education Program (MASTEP)
Page 1 of 3



Implementation Complefion Report                                                    Appendix C
Malawi - Education Sector Credit II                                               Miscellaneous
> Mr. S. Mawindo, Former Programn Director
Malawi Institute of Eduication (MIE)
> Mr. N.T. Kaperemera, Acting Director
> Mr. W.E. Chauluka, Deputy Director and Publishing Manager
2 - List of Sites Visited During Completion Mission
A - Distance Education Center (DECs) - converted to Dav Secondary Schools
1. Linthipe                                    Dedza
2. Dombole                                     Ntcheu
3. Puteya                                      Machinga
4. Dowa                                        Dowa
B. Primary Schools
Nn,neofSth                         ~~~~~~Disttict
1. Chiole                                      Ntcheu
2. Bawi                                        Ntcheu
3. Chitale                                     Ntcheu
4. Songani                                     Zomba
5. Domasi C.C.A.P                              Zomba
6. Mtubwi                                      Machinga
7. Chilanga                                    Machinga
8. St. Augustine III                           Mangochi
9. Samiama                                     Mangochi
10. Chinkhumbe                                 Dedza
I11. Lifidzi                                   Salima
12, Lifidzi (Nchoka)                           Salima
13, Kalonga                                    Salima
14. Kawangi                                    Dowa
15. Kongwe                                     Dowa
C. Malawi Institute of Education, Domasi
D. Malawi National Examinations Board, Zomba
Page 2 of 3



Implementation Completion Report                                                        Appendix C
Malawi - Education Sector Credit I                                                    Miscellaneous
E. Project Implementation Unit, Blantyre
3 - Sites for Primary School Classroom Rehabilitation
REGION              DISTRICT               NO OF           NO OF            STATUS
BLOCKS  CLASSROOMS
NORTH          CHITIPA                        23             63              Completed
KARONGA                        21             80              Completed
RUMPHI                         17             46              Completed
NKHATA-BAY                     16             48              Completed
MZIMBA                         43            144              Completed
TOTALS                        120            381
CENTRAL    NKHATA-BAY                         26             76              Completed
KASUNGU                        18             57              Completed
SALIMA                         25             93              Completed
NTCHISI                        19             76              Completed
MCIUNJI                        27             73              Completed
DOWA                           19             71              Completed
LILONGWE                       31            107              Completed
DEDZA                          26             92              Completed
NTCHEU                         34            130              Completed
TOTALS                        225            775
SOUTH          MANGOCHI                       21             83              Completed
MACHINGA                       32            120              Completed
ZOMBA                          26             84              Completed
CHIRADZULU                     30            134              Completed
BLANTYRE                       38            111              Completed
MWANZA                         13             43              Completed
THYOLO                         34            131              Completed
MULANJE                        68            207              Completed
CHIKWAWA                       26             83              Completed
NSANJE                         16             66              Completed
TOTALS                        305           1062
Page 3 of 3



IBRD 30020
T A N Z A N I A                             M AW
T.aesaam D. _.                                                                  MALAWI
20 420 6,0 80 100                                                                               SECOND
KILOMETERSED                                                                                                           C     T O
1,  4KARONGA                               SECTOR PROJECT
-1'                                                             ;10'sAo    X    h°
"l> '7<o  <                       *     MCDE CENTERS
\   \ 'y  Chilum6o               *     FACULTY OF COMMERCE
|  %  ,-    \   Js                          AT THE POLYTECHNIQUE
,-        */ Liyingstonia               A     MALAWI INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION
RIJ PHI /
to,,o    DISTRICT INSPECTOR HOUSES
m'__                                            Note: 2,000 primary school classrooms
were rehabilitated throughout the
country.
g Z \ f ikwendefii
Z A  M  B I A                                         B mSA    NKHAT                                  PRINCIPAL ROADS
12'                                                                       ,0Luwelezi   ChisumuI MAIAWII      -        SELECTED UNPAVED ROADS           12'
Lt t;   .ttikroma 1.     RIVERS
0  TOWNS
0    DISTRICT CAPITALS
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL
(   Chulu-                                                    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
l ! /        +         '~ KASUfiotolGoto            -~-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
MOZAMBIQUE
A    \   O              :-         ,\         Y       S0c    BMkoknjilcl
ro Lu50kM <            (i LILONCWE                    U SAIJ;\
14'                                                 ,NOmitete                                                                                          14'
C  EDZA   I   I                        c \
* ~ ~  329                                                      >  \k\   f   t   ' ;' ,! A      s~~~~~Dt 
_-~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~f--                                                     \    +--O-U- Ofl''-h'    I
3'2'
KENYA    SOMALIA                                                   Baka   MAC)INGA
RWANDA)~ __LI*WON4E                                                                                            /
DEMOCRATIC            RN                                             MOZAMBIQUE                                        vga
REPUBLIC OF          BURUNDI            \                                                                                     (
CONGO                                                                                        ,./W>-   OMB                     \
rt  -                         TANZANIA                                                         !o\
'-V                                                                          "BLANT R_  No   'i PHALOMBE
Mw  Z.'4radIuMsa
ANGOLA '1'-.'\ !                           .T.COMORO
16'                         *Chkaa*-LNE                                                  16'
ANGOL  I -MOZAMEIQUE       (F)M 1                                                                 -   lb Bese
ZAMBIA                                                                                 n\  )zCI,eP
rA-A ML~I              ~         -                                         CHIKWA         '"'
i  ^ ; (   ;  \  eke) anm (   This map was produced by the
-F .tL     \   X              ,,                                              t     N¢ABUi t           Map Design Unit of The World Bank
_  _    E   ~   J   !   ^A.'  $    )/   The boundaries, colors, denominations
ZIMBABWE                                                                         \,,     Chiama    and anyother information shown on
'-., I                                                                                                     t j   .  8 4t  ,his map dao not imply, on the part of
1 j   n    J'   '          ,                                                          '\A                The World Bank Group, any judgment
Zr IOT_WANA                                     MADAGASCAR                                                  *f             on the legalstatus of any territory, or
i    BOTSWANA     I-sa *   nie  any endorsement or acceptance of
!SOUTH                                                                                     ( S            such boundaries.
AFRICA                                                       34'                                               36'
JANUARY 1 999



