Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2083 MAI
                       Development Credit Agreement
                     (Second Education Sector Credit)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated April 6, 1990
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2083 MAI
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 6, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated August 28,
1989, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the education sector
of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program) and declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
Page  2
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   Section.9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
      later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and
      the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
      Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
      Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program
      referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective
      obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the
      accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit"; and
      (b)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOEC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education and Culture;
      (b)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit, established within
MOEC;
      (c)   "MCDE" means Malawi College of Distance Education;
      (d)   "CER" means the Centre for Education Research;
      (e)   "MIE" means Malawi Institute of Education;
      (f)   "MANEB" means Malawi National Examinations Board;
      (g)   "SBU" means the Schools Broadcasting Unit within MCDE;
      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (i)   "MK" means Malawi kwacha, the currency of the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-nine million
five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 29,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in U.S. dollars a special account in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
Page  3
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15, commencing June 15,
2000 and ending December 15, 2029. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on December 15, 2009 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the time of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOEC with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering, educational and planning practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
Page  4
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case-not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit for the fiscal year in which the list
                  withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and
      (b)   the Borrower has made changes in its education sector investment
program for the period 1991 through 1994, without consultation with, and the
concurrence of, the Association.
                                ARTICLE VI
Page  5
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the
Borrower has adopted an education sector development and recurrent budget,
for the period 1990/91 through 1994/95, satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 30049
            Lilongwe 3
            Malawi
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FINANCE                       44407 MI
                  Lilongwe
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 2033
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                  By /S/ Robert B. Mbaya
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
Page  6
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
       Amount of the
     Credit Allocated                % of
       (Expressed in             Expenditures
CategorySDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)     Civil works:                                100% of foreign
                                            expenditures and
    (a)      40,000                         80% of local
                                            expenditures
    (b)      4,260,000
(2)     Equipment,                                  100% of foreign
    furniture,                                      expenditures,
    vehicles, books                                 100% of local
    and materials:                                  expenditures
                                            (ex-factory cost)
    (a)      3,260,000                      and 80% of local
                                            expenditures for
    (b)6,260,000                            other items
                                            procured locally
    (c)810,000
(3)     Architectural                               100% of foreign
    and engineer-                                   expenditures and
    ing services:                                   80% of local
                                            expenditures
    (a) 3,000
    (b)380,000
(4)     Technical                                   100% of foreign
    Assistance:                                     expenditures and
                                            80% of local
    (a)      3,700,000                      expenditures
    (b)      32,000
    (c)      225,000
(5)     Training includ-                            100% of foreign
    ing fellowships:                                expenditures and
                                            80% of local
    (a)1,230,000                            expenditures
    (b)135,000
(6)     Project                      965,000        80%
    Administration
(7)     Incremental                                 100% up to
    Recurrent                                       March 31, 1993,
    Costs:                                  and 70%
                                            thereafter
    (a)3,680,000
    (b)230,000
(8)     Unallocated                4,290,000
    TOTAL29,500,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  7
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "incremental recurrent costs" means salaries to be paid
to new/additional staff recruited for the Project, operating costs including
fuel, vehicles and equipment maintenance and data processing facilities.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made:
    (a)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
    (b)   in respect of Category 7 (a) unless the Association has received
the trainee-teachers performance assessment and elimination plan pursuant
to paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
    (c)   in respect of Categories 2 (b) , 4 (b) , 5 (b) and 7 (b) unless:
          (i)   MOEC has carried out the first phase of its
                decentralization plan, satisfactory to the Association;
          (ii)  MOEC has implemented the new rules for admission to
                standard 1, and for repetition;
          (iii) MOEC has adopted a plan, satisfactory to the Association,
                to reduce the scope of the curriculum for secondary
                schools;
          (iv)  MOEC has raised tuition fees at post-primary education
                institutions to 45 MK for secondaryschool students, and 280
                MK for University students; and
          (v)   the Borrower has raised the education sector development
                budget for the fiscal years 1991-1992 through 1993-1994 to
                a level satisfactory to the Association.
    (d)   in respect of categories 1 (b), 2 (c), 3 (b) and 4 (c) unless:
          (i)   the Association is satisfied that MOEC has implemented the
                second phase of its decentralization plan, including the
                staff development program;
          (ii)  MOEC has raised tuition fees at post-primary education
                institutions to 60 MK for secondary-school students and 360
                MK for University students;
          (iii) MOEC has raised secondary-school boarding fees to 200 MK;
          (iv)  the Borrower has raised the education sector development
                budget for the fiscal years 1993-1994 through 1994-1995, to
                a level satisfactory to the Association; and
          (v)   the Borrower has discontinued the provision of exercise
                books and writing materials free of charge to secondary-
                school students.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the second five-year phase of its Ten-Year Education Plan (1984/1985-
1994/1995) and restructuring its education sector to improve the quality,
equity and efficiency of the education system and the overall management of
the sector, all in accordance with the Program.
Page  8
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Primary Education
1.  Strengthening MIE's capability in curriculum development, materials
development and in-service training through technical assistance, the
recruitment of additional staff, the construction of about 6 low-cost staff
houses and the acquisition of two vehicles.
2.  (a)   The development, production and distribution of teachers' guides
and textbooks for the first four standards of the primary school system
including the acquisition of microcomputers.
    (b)   The acquisition of about 3,000 sets of low-cost teaching aids for
use in standard-1 classes.
3.  (a)   In-service training of about 4,500 teachers including the award
of fellowships.
    (b)   Expansion of a teacher training college by an increase of about
360 student places.
4.  Improvement of the school broadcasting system through an expansion of
SBU's broadcasting facilities, the acquisition of about 5,000 radio-cassette
players and training.
5.  Improvement of MOEC's capability in the measurement of achievement at
the primary school level through training and upgrading of the computer
system.
6.  Strengthening MOEC's supervision capability through the recruitment of
about 30 additional inspectors and the acquisition of 60 motorcycles.
7.  Acquisition of: (a) roofing materials for about 228 unroofed classroom
blocks and about 406 teachers' houses in rural areas; and (b) furniture and
equipment for about 3,000 classrooms.
Part B:   Secondary Education
1.  Construction, furnishing and equipping of about ten new double-stream
MCDE centers.
2.  Revision of the secondary school curriculum and the development,
production and distribution of low-cost science equipment and kits and
improvement of school libraries through training, fellowships, and the
acquisition of books.
3.  Strengthening of supervision capability of regional education offices
through the acquisition of about six vehicles.
Part C:   Post-secondary Education
    Strengthening the faculty of commerce of the University of Malawi
through technical assistance, fellowships and the acquisition of computers,
including appropriate software and related equipment.
Part D:   Institutional Development
1.  Strengthening of MOEC's capacity to manage the education system through:
    (a)   training, workshops and the construction of about 28 staff houses
in rural areas;
    (b)   training to strengthen MOEC's planning section; and
    (c)   awarding of fellowships and training to strengthen PIU.
2.  Strengthening CER to carry out educational research for both primary-
and secondary-school systems.
Page  9
                                 *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits' published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Malawi may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
    In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic
contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1   Civil works for the construction of staff houses and MCDE centres under
Part A.1 and Part B.1 of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association; provided however, that the
aggregate price of contracts so awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of
$3,200,000.
2.  Furniture may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association; provided, however, that the aggregate price
of contracts so awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,800,000.
3.  Furniture which cannot be procured on the basis of the procedures
referred to in paragraph 2 above may be procured from small village joiners
and carpenters; provided, however, that the aggregate price of contracts so
awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of $50,000.
4.  Roofing materials may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association; provided, however, that the aggregate price
of contracts so awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,100,000.
5.  Instructional materials, including paper and pencils, estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $5,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list
of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
Page  10
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.  The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants, as referred to in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
Program and Project Coordination
1.  The Borrower shall continue to maintain the Committee on Monitoring and
Evaluation, established and existing within MOEC, under the chairmanship of
the Principal Secretary of MOEC. The Committee shall be responsible for the
coordination of all activities related to the execution of the Program and
the Project and shall, in particular, assist the Planning section of MOEC
in: (a) coordinating the various sections of MOEC; (b) preparing periodic
reports required for the timely preparation of annual progress reports; and
(c) monitoring the implementation of policies contained in the Program.
    MOEC shall forward to the Association periodic progress reports on the
Program and the Project on a semi-annual basis, on March 31, and September
30 of each year.
2.  The Committee shall adhere to performance indicators, satisfactory to
the Association, to enable MOEC to monitor and evaluate improvements in the
quality and efficiency of education.
3.  The Borrower shall make adequate annual budgetary allocations for the
implementation of the Program in the fiscal years 1990/91 through 1994/95.
The Committee shall supervise MOEC's budgetary requests, to ensure that they
are consistent with programmed activities, and the objectives of the
policies and staffing envisaged in the Program.
4.  MOEC shall by: (a) April 30, 1990 prepare and submit a plan,
satisfactory to the Association, to determine the performance of trainee
teachers at each stage of their three-year academic and practical training
cycle and to eliminate poor performers; and (b) by July 31, 1990, (i)
complete the preparation of appropriate teaching modules in sufficient
numbers, and (ii) hire a teacher education specialist and coordinator and
identify short-term consultants required for the implementation of the
teacher education program.
Page  11
5.  The Borrower and the Association shall jointly review progress in the
implementation of the Program not later than July 31 of each year. The
Borrower shall thereafter implement the recommendations of such reviews for
the proper implementation of the Program and the Project.
Technical Assistance
6.  In order to assist MOEC and the various institutions and units
responsible for the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure
that appropriate experts and consultants are appointed as follows:
Part A of the Project
1.  For MIE
    A publishing manager, an editor with desk-top publishing skills, a
curriculum evaluation specialist, and a specialist in the teaching of
reading to young children to assist MIE develop and publish new primary
school textbooks and teachers' guides.
2.  For MCDE and SBU
    A radio producer, a scriptwriter and a radio program evaluator to help
develop new radio programs and a consultant to develop a radio maintenance
system.
3.  For MOEC
    An expert in educational technology and teacher training.
4.  For MANEB
    An expert in examination design and assessment of educational
achievement.
Part B of the Project
    An expert in school libraries to assist in book-selection, and training
in library-use.
Part C of the Project
    Three lecturers in accounting for the Faculty of Commerce of the
University of Malawi.
Part D of the Project
    Short-term consultants in management and educational planning to assist
MOEC headquarters; an architect, a quantity surveyor and an accountant to
assist PIU; a full-time researcher in education and short-term consultants'
services to assist CER in carrying out its research programs.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)    the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. -
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
Page  12
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been made out of the Special
                Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by, the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
Page  13
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
