It                                                                                                                              0
Li                                                         .I fi  ~
WI'                                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



CURRENCY EQUm
Currenc Unit Peso
US$1.00   Peso $1.00
January 1 to Deember 31
GLO&SS   OF ABBREVIAIONS
AFJP                                     o Id  a f Retirement and Pension
Funds
BCRA        =    Banco centrl de la Republica (Cel Bank of the
AinPne Republic)
BICE        =    Banco de Inversion y Comeicio Extrior(Invesmet
and F6rign, Tade Bank)
BNA        - =    Banco de la Nacion Argentina (National Bank of
ArpOntina)
BOCON             Consoidaton Bonds
(MTAP   '         Capital Markmt Tchnical Assistance Project
CN;         =    Comision Nacional de Valores (National Secutdes
Commision)
PSAL        =    Fiancial Sector Adstmet Loa
EDB               Iter-American Dvelopment Bank
ICB         i      n ai  Compedtve Biding
iS          =    In onal Shopping
LIB         =      imited iernational Biddig
LS          =    Local Shopping
LCB         =    Local Competitde Biddi
ME          =    Mnstry of Ecouomy
MIS         =    Ma          Ifrmation System
NPS         =    NatonalPension Syem
PAYG              Pay As You Go
PERAL      .=    Publc Eteprise Refom Adjustmt Loan
PEREL       5    Public Enterprise Reform Exeuton Loan
SNPS              National System of Si Secrty
SSS         -    Sectariat Of Social Security
SAFP        -    Supedeia de   m           res de Fomdos de
Jibilaciones y Pensiones (Superintendency of Pension
pFnds Mangers)
'[OR        =    ¶brmsof Ref-f ence



FOR  0F1I   USE ONLY
CACL MMDEVBLOPMN
LNAND W=r SU ,RY
The Arntine Republic
Mlnistiy of Economy (M, Secretari of
Social Secrity (SSS), Comision Nacional de
Valores (CNV), and Banco de Inversion y
Comercio Exterior (BICE).
US$8.5 million equivalent, with retroactive
fiancing of up to US$850,000 from November
1, 1993 onward.
3:m                      Fifteen years, iucluding a five-year grace period
at the Banes standard variable in .ret m.
Governmet =US$ 1.7 million
TOTAL              US$10.2 million
)ecesh  an               The proposed opersion woud fcflitte the
impleentatOnf the proposed Capital Market
Developmet Project In partiular, it would
support   (a) the instional stent   g of
the securities markt regulatory agenc and
re          of secuities market regulaios;
(b) the implenon af the new pension
reform legislaon and creation of supeisory
agenc for pension fiDds; and (c) the early
establisment of advanced progms to impre
local banking skills for term fancing of
inetmnt project.
Eco:noniic Ho Of         n.a.
Sf                       n.a.
n.a.
This document has a restrited distribution and may be wed by recipients only In the performance
of their offietis duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Word Dank authonkion.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCFION AND DEVELAOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CAPITAL MARKT DEVELOPMENT ENICAL
ASSWIANCE PRU MAT THE AGENNE REPUBLIC
1.    I submit the folowing memoandum  nd  onation on a
pmposed loan to- the Agntine Republic for the equivaln of US$8.5 million
to help finance a Capital Market Development Technical Assistamce Project
(CMTAP). The loan would be on standard IBRD terms repayable over 15
years, including five years grace, at the Bank's standard variable intrest
rate. This CMTAP will assist the Antdne Gorment i its efforts to
accelerate capital market development by providing technical assistae to
strengthen regulations and supervision in the seures market, implement the
recenlmy approved pension funds legislation, an impove the capabilities of
fiancial inrmdiaries. It also would suppt a proposed Caphal Market
velpme  Project.
2.      kaoW. PNor economic policies and a weak reguatory
environment in the past four decades, when high inflation and
macroeconomic instability were the norm, undermied financal and capil
market development in Argentina and resulted in a steep decline in domestc
resource mobiliton. Cunrency and deposits (as measred by M2)
decreased fo  the equivalent of 40 pacent of GDP in the early 1940s to 20
percent in the-mid-1970s and almost to 5 percent in 1990. The sharp drop in
financal savigs had an impact on the voume of bank credit which
decreased from around 40 paer   of GDP in the early 1940s tD 10 perce  in
1989. Ihe private sector was pancularly derved of access to domestic
finanwial resources due to crwdig out by the public sector, which urAtl
receny mainaed a virtual monopoly on the bond market and captured
about half of milable bank credit. Furtmore, recurn periods of high
ination rested in highly uncertin real yields on financial assets, which led
invemors to preft almost exclusively very short-tm mauities for their
domestic deposits. At the same time, thmere was a virual disapp e of
term paper issued by privae corporations Confond with ftis reality, and
suppotd by rcent macmeconomic stability, the Govment has been
takg decisive steps to expand domestic sources of long-term flmncing, and
create a reguary environment more fiaorable for improving posects for
financial markets in genal, and those of the private capit markt in
particular.1
For furthrxiaon on the Arkntine econony and the evlution of the iania
secOto soe the pwpoed Catl Market Dodopmt Lon Reports No P-6161-AR
& 12328 dated Jnur 15, 1994.



4                               a
jjjjqi"  j~~~~~~~wjj) ~~~~I'A   8'~~l



-3-
regulaty agency-Comisi6n Nacional de Valores (CNV)-and the
I       e  of securides market gions; (b) the  plemeio aof the
pension reform legislation that reforms the social secuft  stem which
promots the deveopmen of bdependn penon fids and creates a new
supervisory agenqc; and (c) the early establishmt by privat tainig
insiutions f advanced progams to ipove local skdlls in the aea of urm
fin   gfor vieste  projects.
6.    PS         c       The proposed project is fully descrbd in the
Technical Annx (Annex ). Detailed cast esimates are shown in Schedule
A. The matrix of project activities (Attachment 1 of Anex 1) povides
irmatin on the eectd output, its impact, and the tmning of overed
activities. In partcular, the project would finance exentr-mainly for
hiring consultats-o assist the Govenment in the following acivities:
(a) DwleL s the S"ciies Ma"k. A first set Of
activities covers the s  g   of CNV's organiation and
inaga      trouh  (i) evaluaion Of its cut capabilites
and design of a restrucuring program (US$400,000); (ii)
mplementation of the resructaring progam (US$950,000);
(iii) development and Ilemen       of a taining program for
CNV'r staff (US$1.2 million); (iv) pteparation of the first
busnes plan for CNV (US$50,000); and (v) isalaton of a
compuzed  magemet infmatin ystem for the new
organizationalscture of CNV (goverment counterpart,
US$1 million). The second set of actiitis covers the
upgrding of the secuites market regulations  uh: (i)
evaluation of current securiies mart  nad  pr     on
of popoa  to satis  nw reuaoy need (US$65,00);
and (ii) insallation of computr systems which would allow
CNV to be permanendy ifrmed about seuries mart
beaior (govemnt counept, US$300,000).
(b)   Lmplof   &Uo                  Refom and New   P
=m. (i) Development of norms and regulaons reqird by
the pension eform legistion (US$360,000>; (ii) creaton of
the  w  peWrvisory agncy covering pension fuds and heir
administators, as well as ital spport to the   an    of
this new agec (consulnts US$1.9 million and compes
US$1 million); and (iii) consolidation into one body of all
norms, reguatons and pocedures that will remain active from
prvious legislation (US$140,000). Government countrpart
fuding will be provided for these activitie (US$400,000).
(c)  RIA'       mM  for Lagzam Eambial  Imon. (i)
Funding of a two-tier tainig faci  at BICE to finance the
establishmet by the ptivat sector of taining jngrams for
middl anmd Rmeinr IPw I m n-Is,  :y *h* A:1



marklace (US$1.1 million); (ii) finacing of fes and relaed
expenditue of public sector employees who aed training
courses that are pat of the ftriing pM   (US$150,000);
and (ii) fining of the development of specific course
modules by private taining insions, at the Govnment's
request (US$250,000).
(d) LQMt Er..m Am MM                               (i)
Addition of staff support to the exisng Coonating Unit in
Xt Ministry of ECnoWM  to fciitat the efficiet and timely
implnion  f project activities-it will also assist in the
implemention of the Capial Market Development Project-
(US$350,000).
7.    BMW  Im plond                     The Borrower would be the
AMrginne Republc, with the Ministry of Economy as coordinator and
administraor. The Goverment will use an already-existing Coordinatig
Unit headed by a National Project Dlrietor, assisted by a full-tine
Coordinator with powers to contact consultants ad request dIsbreet.
The executing wgncies wld be: (i) the CNV for the securities market
comonent; (ii) the Secreriat of Social Security for the imp ion of
the pension ftids legislation compot; and (Mii) Banco de Inversion y
Comerlo Exterior (BICE) for the taining program compnenL  The total
project cost is estimd at US$10.2 million equialet, of which US$8.5
million equi t would be finaced by the Bank and US$1.7 million
equivet will be provided by the Govenment. Reuoati  financing of up
to US$850,000 would be provided from November 1, 1993, onward.
Approximately 400 man-months of consultant work, prefrably by
companes, would be finnced under the Project. Project completion has
been argeted for December 31, 1997, and the Loan Closing Date for Ame
30, 1998. A special acount of up to US$700,000 would be estabdised at a
commewial bank to efcitat payments under the Loan. MeO f
procureme and disbusements ame shown in Schedule B &ad explained in
Annex 1 (pauas. 34-36). Terms of Reference (TOR) for all activities and a
detailed descrption ef the conte  of the coure modules of the core trainig
program bhe been submitted by the Goverment and ageed to by the Bank.
Prm  ent of goods and selection of consultants wou follow Bank
guidelin. A Suppleme   Loan Data Sheet and the Stus of Bank Group
Opeaons in A         are given in Schedles C md n respctvely.
Sepaae accoun, mainain  at the Coordinatg Unit would be kept of al
expenditues financed by the project. TMe accounts and statements of
expenditues will be audited each year by auditors satisfacory to the Bank.
8.    Ptoject Sus=inabilitwW    Following almost thuee years of sun and
successful measures to stabilize the economy, the Govemment is now turing
attenion to establishing adequate conditions for long-term grwth, including
the development of a strong capital market in Agntina. The Bank is
suporting the Govemnct efforts through a proposed Capital Market
Developmt Loan which would reqire an appropriae regulaty



AC~~r~                    
jsi8Iii~~~~~~1IfiiiIi            II ad~~~~~~~a



-6-
by bans and to capital market devlopment in Argentina. In particular it
will: (a) enhance the securities market-by improving CNVs supervisory
capacity and by sgIn sector regultons; (b) support efforts to
develop an inde        pension fdndS sym, properly suprsed, that will
iceae t  domesic supply of long-tem saving in the economy; and (c)
ensure an adequae supply of experts m term financig for ivestment
projects by supporting privawe sector supply of high quality training progMams
for middle and senior level managent in the financial marketplace.
13. Bika. The main riskfsaced by the project are delas in implementation
due to management changes at the implemenig agencies and to lack of
adequate c ar   These risks would be minimiid by the use of the
existng Project Coordinatig Unit to coordine the proposed project, which
wold provide continuity to the project. The risk of not attning enwugh
demand for the traiin component will be reduced by: (a) BICEs
involvement in the promotion of the two-tier taining flcility-hh level
officials in commercil bank ad the securiies industry, the GoVernmet and
trainng institutions-in the early phases of the tr   pwgm; and (b) the
oPton for the govrment to partally finance the devlopme  of course
modules if necessay. Close supervision by the Bank duri  project
implement~tion plus a mid-term review also- would contribute to reduce these
ris.  The mid-rm review will include an evaluation of the expected output
eah project cnponent.
14.  RIm satisfied tbat the propod loan would comply
with the Articles of Ageem  of the BM9k, and I  commend that the
Executive Dircts approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attchments.k 
lanuary 15, 1994
Wasin,gto  D.C.



SCHEDUW A
bae 1 9L2
ARGENTINAZ CMII - PROJEC ACVI1ES
FINANCING USS'000
PROJECT COMPONENTS                                        -               .
F z ~~~~~~~ak  i                           - i.?.r G;     M    (Cu  lo.s.ws .  
LYawM tuii. . ,uKi                       M~.RCT             .. .,   . . ..    .         . ,  ..    ,   . . 
1.1  _nugbnft  of CNVI&    nizatio and                                            -    -     S i      _      ,  - '.
(a) Evahuatio of CaV'  Strctur and Dealpi of Restucurn*  Program                       400  _____               400
(b) Imp _eienoa of CNV's Acdon Plan                                                    950    ___       _       950
(c) Developmen a  Imd plee       of Tralalug Prgm for CNV                            1,200                     1200
(d) Prepaton of Buins Pln forCNV                                                        so                       so Si
(e) instatlo of MES for CNV                         .                                                     1    ,0 O
1.2  Upgradn of Secries Maret Re.ltion
(a) Evaluaton of Mart Tm*ds and Prposal for New Regulat                                                         650
.~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                                        -  
(b) Insali  of Cotputorized Imatio Sysm   for CNVs Supvisoy Futio                                     300       300
Subtotal                                                                          3,250          1._ 0 j   4,5S0
2..1 I              of the New lqWa o
IMLETIO                 P1EiEPNIKUD    Y                     M.                                      .         ...................  
(a) Dew dqopui  of Norms and RewpM=n        _                                          360            275       635
(b) Creation of Regulatry Agency for Pension Funds,                                  2,900            100    3,000
(c) Consolidation of Norms and Procedules for Socia Securit SysteM                     140,            25       165
Subtal                                                                       ;   3,400             400     3,800
.3. -RINN  IRGA. - ,.ON T.                   MFACA -N .                                       .S. .            . *
3.1 Upgradin of Finantl h nedidaon Capabiltis of Middle and
Senior Iel      _         m Banks ad Robed  _ s  _
(a) kTwoder Tan    Fity to FMnne  ai    Programs                                     1,100                     1,100
.b) Trinin of Re,at                                                                    150                      IO_ 
(c) DeWpie of Cou  Modules                                                             250    . .               250
Subtot'       _                                                                   1,S000                    1,500,
4.1 Stengthening the GoCernns Adi stative Capaciw to Inpleme                                  .
(a) Suppot to te Coordiati  Unit                                                       350                      350
Subotal                                                                             350              0       350
..  .rAL       -m -                              8,SOO          1.700    10.200



8 -
SCHBDULE A
PA=o 2 of2
ARGENTNA - CMTW
__________   LOCAL    FOREIGN                 TOTAL
BANK                     1,000          7,500           8,50
GOVERNMENT              1,000            700            1,700
.~ ~ =oa= ...    .-.--I.-  -1S 
TOTAL                   2,000           8,200          10,200
Note: The costs of consultants have been esimatid at US$30,000/staff-month for inatiouIl consls,
including an average of US$10,000/staff-month for airfare, lodging, and subsistenexnditures; and at an
avea  of US$11,000/staff-month for local experts (including local law fims).
.,



9 -
ARGENTINA - CMTAP
P,0CUREMENT ARRANGEMEN    (S$')                 '     '-.
PROJECr ELEMNT;  PROCUREMET METHOD                               UAL
Other                N.BF.        COS_h
1. Consultant Services       7.40                  0            7,480
and lmwng                   .(7,480)                            (7,480)
2. Equipment and              1,020b            1,300           2,320
Maberisls                   (1,020)                             (1,020)
F 3. Local  _uts400                                               400
TAL                         88,500              1,700           10,200
____________________  .__________________  ,________________ _ , (8,50 )
Note: Fgs in partbesis are the respective amounts financed by th Book.
Contact of consulant according to World Bank Guidelines: Use of Conaltm by
Wordd Bank Borres and by the World Bank as Ewxcutig Ageny (August 1981).
b Of Which US$900,00 for computr equipment and related seavicing through Limited
nnaonal Biddig (LB) among manufatrs with establishd service  clies in.
A4gntna, in pacmes of not less tha US$100,000, and UJS$120,000 for m
through local or internadonal shopping.
CATEGORY                 AMOUNT             PERCEN1WE
1. Conlta  Sevices ad 'rauni         7,480      100% net of ta
2. Equpment and Matrdals              1,020      100% frign expenin
and 85% local ependit
TOTAL                                8,500
FY94       FY95      FY96       FY97
ANNUAL                 700       2,800      2,800      2,20D
CUMULATIVE             700       3,500      6,300      8,50
~~~~I~~   ;



- 10-
SCHEDUL 
ARGENTINA - CMTAP
TLMETABLE OF KEY P1 OCESSING-EVENTS
(a)   llme taen to prepare:             sen months
(b)   Prpared by:                       ME. SSS, CNV, BICE witi Bank
assistance
(c)    First Bank mission:              August 1993
(d)   Appraisal mission departure:      October 1993
(e)    Negoiation:                      December 1993
(f)   Board presentation:               Fbruary 1994
(g)   Planned date of eectiveness:      April 1994



- 11 -
SCHEDULE D
CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTMCE PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
STATMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of September 30, 1993j
LAan or Fical Borrw    Purpose                 Amount (less   Undisbursed
Credit  Year                                   cancellations)
Flly disbursed loans (37)                        4346.6             0.0
2592  1985  YPF        Gas Utiization
Tech. Assistance          180.0            14.6
2641  1986  Argentina   Water Supply               44.8            14.4
2654  1987  Arentina   Power Distibution          276.0            160.2
2920  1988  Argentina   Municipa Development      120.0            62.9
2970  1988  BNA         Agriculture Credit        106.5              0.0
2984  1989  Arentina   Social Sector               28.0              6.0
3015  1989  Argentina  1Ta Admin. T.A.              6.5              0.2
3280  1991  Arentina   Provincial Developmen      200.0            178.9
3281  1991  A          Water Supply               100.0            100.0
3292  1991  Aentina   PEREL                        23.0            10.5
3297  1991  Argentina   Agricultual Sevices        33.5            23.6
3362  1991  Arntina   Public Sector Reform T.A.    23.0            17.8
3416  1992  YPF Socied. Hydrocarbon Engr.          28.0            20.2
Anonima
3460  1992  Argentina    bx adion II               20.0            12.2
3520  1993  Aentina   Y a II                      300.0            145.2
3521  1993  AWentina   Flood Rehab                170.0            161.2
3556  1993  Argentina   PubL Entprie Ref II       300.0            100.0
3558  1993  Argentina   Finaial Sector Adjust.    400.0            194.8
36111 1993  Argntina   Road  ntc  & Rehab   340.0                 340.0
36482 1994  Argtina   Matrnal & Child Health      100.0            100.0
TOTAL                                           7,145.8
of which has been repaid                        1,995.0
T1OAL NOW OUTSTANDING                           5,150.8
AMOUNT SOLD                                        12.8
of which has been rpaid                            12.8
TOTAL NOW HEID BY BANK AND IDA                  5,138.0
'IUFAL UNDISBURSED                                               1,662.7
I/Not yet signed
2/Not yet effecdve
19-Oct-93



-----    --- -- -------------   ----------------
rl a~~~~~~~~~~a &a..ee
I x !i                                                                                     f 'I 
'I...   a.           a                                                      ba  t              IJt.
i~    ~  rn                                 U, p 1[XttX§X1 W1i          
8         8 8   o B  8    81B Y                       81 8          0 8  8 ''  s   5~ ''  8   h '   ' t
|   o   e ;,~r&            * § 1 8 | o S 8 1 8 | B 1 8 1 1 1 X 08
ED                               a      s  *  e  a  a  *  *  a  a *    *  *  *  *  *  a  * *  .  .  I



ARGENtINA
STAIEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENIS
As of 8u.b.r Us. low
Od,m nm   o.b.              "Omd  Mad by LkIubMsed
Fbml Y_W                                                             IFC                                            ICC -by   pa h-  is - 
CommAW hf                                     TY" at Sudfs           L.m  E0y  inat_  TOW           IfC  1kab
Yacyle                    Inauhlun                15.00    5.00   40      66.00
?.bon"                    IfifrWtIAO               000   30.00   00.00   150.0O
Ak.Em gmgMatlt           PInsidcas                  -    4.00      -      4.00
hnbadId                   ln*auaa                  6.O0    230    ao0    16.
gus. I. a. ipiuc f                 s.                -      -    20.00    350,S0
sAo V Twea ks                                     10S0   10.00 sW0         S0O
edsnm                     Inbauchn                30.0   1SA5   120.00   1610
aubwed.i                  l*aUw                      -   20.00       -    20.
Taneo                      *A*UW                                           o -   6.00   10.0
n_                      _~~~~a**aaw            -   0.20       -      0o2
sub-bb_                           -..           1*00 oo    .6031.00   6        91.60
W/ GrosCouuubwnb .onul-tfpproved nd signed proieeb.
a1 M'idCoomdbnmno     *Isofd.E.Sandundsbw"nedkwasnw
di   sEados msp amntof 81g.26 dlb mfnpsm.
^ 812 nith  tm 2  Vflnn wsbm bimappr.wIsOpmaWrs9            Mn



AN X
ARGENTiNA: T 1CNICAL ASSIACE PRO
FOR CAM&L MARK Er EOP
L. BACKGROUND
1.      specM  for PriE  Domestic           As a result of a much improved business
climate, private ismnt ecored from the equiwvalent of 12.5 percen of GDP in 1990 to
16 percent in 1992. Of ths, close to 82 percent  s financed by private domestic savings,
with the recommg maily from foreign borrowing and direct foreign ivestment. Recent
Govenment projecions show that overall invst  in Aretn is ected to go up-in
const    es dof 1992-from the equivlent of US$37.9 billion last year to US$54.8 billion
in 1995. The grwing importance of the private sector makes it higly likely that most of
the additional ivtment effort would be made by prvate companes. The challe     task
ahead would be easier if financial in ediaris-both in the banldng sysem and the
securties market-were to become more effective in the mobilizadon of finacial saving to
the corporate sector. Altugh infonmation is scarce, available data suggest that domestic
financial intmediaton has played a limited role in the financing of private investnt in
past decades. F    more, bans have conenttd  on short-tem lending to priWe
businesses, a mode- of fnancing which is not ideally suied for instment projects.
2.    The remurn of mroeconomic and price stability in the lastt  yes has been
acompanied lby a reurgne i resource bmobilization y the local bnking system and ne
domestic secrities markt. There has been a doub in real ums of the lewl of credit
outanding to the-private sector between 1990 and 1992. Also, there has been growing
act    in the secuities market, with a significan incrase in the capitaliz o f private
stock companies and in the volume of private bonds placed locally. It is xpected tat
continued macroeconomic stabt  should reinforc te tendte    twards a growing
relevance of domestic financial in i on in meetng the needs of the inestment effort.
Also, pce stabilit shld be conducive for investrs to inrease the volume and to lengthen
the tms of their financial savings
3.    Fmancial Sector liutiom. Commel banking has been dominad by 36 public
banb, which pmvide the major share of bank credit (about 61 perent), raise a significan
share of doits (about 55 pecen) and employ about half of all bank employees in the
counry. All major iernational bank are presen in Agentina and there is a mnmber of
import pnrivaly owned domestic banks. Private bans grew in the past en ragd by
subsidized Central Bank credit, controld inrest  es on depost, and profits derived from
inflation and price and foeign exhae insty. Nonetheless, durig the 1980's ther
number decreased from a maximum of 179 to 141, mainly due to bank failure and increased
bank competition brought about by lealized irs  rates, reduced credit subsidies,
incresed reserve u     s, and a falling demand for liquid assets. In 1992, the
Govermen established Banco de Inversi6n y Comudo Exterior (BICE), as a wholesale
bank which is exp d to provide medium and long term cadt to the privae sector though
partcipng bank  BICE  a recety received loans for a total of US$600 millon frm the
ntr American Development Ban and the Eport-Import Bank of JapaL  On the rgulaoy
side, the Central Banc is entrusted with enorcing the Law of Fmancial Enities, and the
Su,wtwiom  must be a Cskeiwal nk nirft*w with f*l Dithnriitiwn fwr enfi=ng



-1S-                                 -
bankg prudenti  reatons. Law 17.811 establishes the role of Comisi6n Nacional de
Valores (CNV) as the regulatory authority for the secues, fitures and opos market; it
also establishes the powers and Wonsibilities of the stock exchanges, with the Buenos Aies
Stock Exchange as an endty with a high latitude to self-regulate itself and the brokerge
ndustry in geral.
4.     ueM. The critical capital market issue bas been the limited mobiization of long
erm sources (size and insruments) from private inwests. Poor mobilization of long-term
private tsurces was undermined by: (a) macroecnomic instability; (b) the lack of
instimional investors with sources of contacual savipgs for long-term investments; (c) taes
on financial instuments; and (d) sho     in the reglatory frmework for the capital
5.    G      e   Sy. The umproved macroeconomic clmat    recent years together
with a diminished tax burden on isers and holders of priva securities has resulted in
renewed activity m the equity and bond market where the leading new issuers have been
private bak and some lape corporations. Curen mnetary policy mainly the
Convertibility Law -wheeby the monety base canmot emeed the level of international
reserves- and the legal prohibition of the Cental Bank to extend credit to the GoMeMMnt
and w financial instiutions other than short-term liquidity loans, have sought to increase
discipline and the financial soundness of the banking stem. Also, the closing of some sota
bans and the downsizing of the rest, together with strengthened pdentdal banig
reguaions, have brought about a sharp reduction in the sta  expre to potenal credit
losses. On the other hand, the pritization of public entrprises such as ENTEL -the state
telecommunicions compaW- and YPF -the ste petroleum compa-has fosteed a
dramtic  increase in stock holdings by the privt sector and promoted an expanion in the
level of traactions in the stock market, which currenty shows a capitalization equivalet to
roughly 30 perent of GDP. Other capital market reforms include the eliminaton of taxes
on securities tding, the Iizaon of seritdes trading fees, the equlization of capital
gains taes for     and domestic iveors, the improeme  of muual funds le    on
and the recey apprved private pension fund system. Key remaining refrms being
considered include: legislation to improe market taparency; the issuance of regulabons to
tghten coaols on brokers, brokerage houses and the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange; new
nrles for a better cooidination among regulatory agencies covering finanial marwkes; and the
passage of improved regulations for the supervion of financial conglomerates.
6.    Moderat inflation smming from m      c      policies since 1991 began to
reduce the uncertainty of real asset yields, and treby reversing the decline m rsurce
mobilizion. Strong income gwth has fther incased the demand for financial assets.
Following the removal of trnacion as  on secuities, several banks and corporations
began to iss  corpomte bonds, chiefly US dollar-deno ated. The recently-approved
pension fumd reform will strengtn this recovery. In spite of these chanes, fincial
deepening remains far below intnational standards and long-term lending for business
inve nt is only beginnn to emere.
7.    Pmject M iqWM. The proposed project would suppot the Governments efforts to
address constraints in the capital market. Specifically, this project would assist the
Goverment in improving the rgulatory and supervisory framework needed for a devloping
g.et4la miwIn*- A1inrnit thP rprpnttv nnn^wPA nminni rpfnw m- SmA imnrwwin the Cnaciv



-16-
of the baddng system to undrtake tem iending. The followmg sectons elborate upon
these tbree areas.
H.   MAIN ISSUES IN TIE                  MARKET
8.    MN Rory Emriwment. The primary law regulat  the Agenine securities
market is Law # 17811, which establishes the powes and responsibilities of both the CNV
and the stock exchanges in the issuing and tading of securities. It also provides the legal
frameork for the spervisoy functions of the CNV and the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange,
and egulates the expected market behavior of participants in the seurities market. The
CNV is th supervisory autrity in chage of issn regulations for the  curties market:
these include in, the issuing of debt and equity inuments, primary and
secondary trading in seces, and futures and options markets. CNV also has reguatory
pOWrs over mutual fud magement companies. It has, howver, limited autority ao
the  eation of bkrge houses and ficensed brokers associated wih Buenos Aires Stock
Exchange, which has is own regulatory board. The CNV has no authority over the adoption
and enforcement of accouing and audidtng stndards, but through its approval rights over
the public offering process and the listing rules of stock exanges, it exercises a strong
inuee over finacial reportig practices.
9.    Recent           Law # 17811 has been supplemented in recent years by seral
important new laws and by regulatons isued by the CNV. These are: (a) the rmoval of
stictons on foreip portfolio investments in September 1989, as part of the Economic
Emergency Law; (b) the Negotiable Instumen  Lw of 1989, amended on July 1991, to
provide a basis for the issuane and trding of corporate bonds; (c) a presidental decree of
November 1991, which removed stamp and tansfer taxes on securities inestment, equalied
taxton of capital gains for foreign and domestic imvestors, lib zed fees and brokerage
commissions on securities tranactions; (d) a mutual funds law of May 1992, which allowed
open and closed-end funds, clarified powers and responsibilitie of the fund management
compay, intoduced grea  portfolio diversity and impwved reguatons on invesor
protecdon; and (e) a new law on social security reform enacted in October 1993, which
created an independent pension fund system with individual wo.*ers capitalization accounts
(see Section III). In addition, there is a law proposal pending in Congress on market
tansparency and inside ttading.
10.   endn Issues. In order to build on its proam of legislative amendment, which
focusses on improving fairness and efficiency in the securities market and fully implement
the policy intntions of the new laws, CNV would like to change some market practices
through beter markt monhoring, more timely inaions of breaches of law, and a more
effective administrtion of its penalty system and proscution of law breakers in court.
Despite significant advances in developing a egulatory framework for the securites market,
there are still some areas of concen: (a) the weakness of prudental regulations pertaining to
Agine market intrmediaries, particularly the lack of regulations on capital equient
of brokerage houses-the purchase of a seat in the stock exchange is presenty the only
requime  to act as a securities intermediary-and (b) the close inter-relationship that exists
in the ownership of brokrage houses and other financial intermediares such as banks, which
own the most active and growth-oriented tading houses, g.iing rise to conflicts of interest in
relation to clients and creatng problems of inside trading and market maipulaton.



-17 -              1
II. IMPLEMETATION OF TIE PENSION REFORM
11.   Scome of ft  Pension ReforM Law. The pension reform law (Law 24241) of Octobe
1993, is intended to restore fainess and financial viability to Aentas mandatory
insurane against the riks of old age, survivoship and disability. The reform may also
genrate pension fund savings on a large scale, which would secure a growing demand for
capital market intuments. In addition, a successful reform would enable the authorities to
substantialy lower non-age labor costs. A cental element of the reform is the combination
of pension funds and pay-as-you-go (PAYG) schemes in an integrated system of mandatory
pe=ion insurance. Private and public instituons (Admiadoras de Fondos de
Jubilaciones y Pensiones - AFJPs) will compete in the supply of such funds. The Govrnen
plans for the reform to take effect on July 1, 1994, but must until then issue detailed
reuations and establish a superint     for the AFJPs.
12.   Since 1968, old-age, survivorsip and disability insurance in Argentna has been
mandatory for all dependent and independent workers. Close to 90 percen of workers are
covered by the National Pension Systm (NPS), the remainder by separa  schemes for the
armed forces, the pohce, and provil and muici  public employees. Al schemes are
based on PAYG principles. Despite substal revenues from earmarked taxes, however,
NPS finances became unviable during the 1980s due to over-generous benefit promises and
an increasing evsion of contributions. The dependency ratio (pensioners/contiburs)
soared fom 39 percent in 1980 to 62 percent in 1990; in that year, financing of mandated
beneits trugh currnt contibutions would have required a conibution rate of 53 percent
of gross salary. LAcIng revnues, the NPS severely underpayed the indeed pensions of
dependent workers and delyed inflation adjustment of the non-inde   pensions of
idependent wors.
13.   In 1991, the Government concluded that adequate benefits and finca viability could
only be restored thrugh a radical rm   that would address the evasion problem. Congess
passed the reform law in Septmber 1993. In the interim, the Govement took measue
which enabled the NPS to grduaRy raise benefits to their mandated level. These included
earmarkig of coparticipatd tax revenues, reform of the collection fiuion, and an increase
in the m   _inmum years of cobutions from 15 to 22, which slowed the incrase in the
number of pensioners. In addition, the Goverment isued consolidation bonds (BOCONs) to
pensioners in rcogition of about US$10 billion of arrears.
14.   A drastic reduction in the dependency ratio is essendl for maidng the tansition frm
a PAYG sstem to a partially funded system financially feasible. To that end, the reorm'
law gradually aise the minimum retim   age by 5 years to 60 years for women and 65
years for men; incrases the minimum years of contribution to 35 years;  ughens
requirements for disability claims; and establishes strong links between contrbtons and
expeced benefit. Revenue and eapenditure projections indicate that the curnt allocation of
tax revenues to social senrity wil be sufficient. Povided mandated benefits for extig
pensioners under the old law are not increased, the authorities would be able to p siwvly
reduce either tax allocations or the conution rate.
15.   Th reform wil replace the NPS with a so-called Inteatd Pension System which
includes PAYG ad fimded schemes. Pe-reform conuo  will be c        d  t l  a
__~~~ L                  s        __*  -    N  *       *- * ,* 



-18-                              AEI1
base-the idexd avrage individual wage over the last 10 years pnor to rtieme-for each
year of contribution, i.e., 45 percent after 30 years.
16.   Post-reforn contributions will establish claims on two pensions:
(a) A basic, uniform penion from the PAYG scheme. The law promises about 28
percent of avge economy-wide salary after 30 years of affiliation, increasing with
adtonal years. Employer and indndent workers wil conibute 16 percent of
salary or icome, although the Government intends to reduce this rate subject to Sscal
- performance. The unifom pension provides for a trnparent redistributio within
the system.
(b) An additional, proportional pension from either the PAYG or the funded scheme.
Workers must choose between the two schemes, an in either case contribute 11
perce  of their salaty or income (idependent workers). The PAYG scheme
promises beneft of 0.85 percnt of individual pension base for each year of
contibution, i.e., 25.5 percent after 30 years. Pension fund affiliates will draw
benefits in proportion to contributions and their fuds inve nt perfoance.
However, AFJPs will deduct a managme  fee which will also cover the premim
for mandatory disabflit i ance. The Govrment expects competition between
APs to hold the fee down to about 3 peentag points leaving 8 percenage points
for addition to the individual capitlization accounts. Workers can at any time
tansfer from the PAYG to the funded scheme, but not vice vesa. Twice a year,
tey may also shift their accounts witout penaldes between fimds.
17.   The relaive atractiveness of (i) the PAYG over the funded scheme with regard to the
additional pension and (n) public over prifate pension funds are issues stil to be resolved.
The management fee, which may be higher than 3 percentage points after the costs of
disability       become known, tends to weaken the pension fund option. Since the
PAYG scheme also has to provide for disability insurce, the Goement is sdyin the
possibility of charg    cost againt beefits.
18. The law requirs Banco de la Nacion (BNA) to establish a- pension fund and allows
provines and m cles do the same. The law boost the atractiveness  f the BNA fund
ty obligatng BNA to guane  reu    in both pesos (at the BNA savi   ae) and dollams
(at 3-months Libo), ad to fg the mangment fe eept for cven the disabiity
insurame premium. The Governmet has sumited to Congess a draft correction law
which wold remove the dola gua       and the management fee prohibition. Tb avoid any
bias agis pivat funds, BNA will need to reflect the cost of the reming peso guarantee
in the m ment fee.
19. .    ations of the efm for the  a lM           The reformNsimpact on the
supply of long-ternm saving will obviously depend on the choice between the PAYG scheme
and the penon funds. Since the PAYG scheme is relatively more attrctive to older
wores, it would initally tae a significant shamr, That share wuld tend toad zer as
now-young workes reach retirement age. The Govenment expec  the PANG scheme to be
atrtie to wrks above age 45 in 1994. On that basi, cn     ons would iniially split
70/30 between pension funds and the PANG scheme. The funds would intay grow by
about 14 nercent of GDP annualv. Bv the year 20M- demdtQ in thu nmunnn fmAu * m lIA



-19-                              AE 1
be about 10 percen  of GDP; by 202S they would amount to more than 70 percent of GDP.
This will be a dramatic deveiopmt for Argenfias capital market, where demand for
medim- and long-term debt istuments is still incipient.
20.   The New Supeintdency of Pension Funds. One of the principal risks facing the
reform could be lack of confidence by workers in the inestment performance of the new
penson funds. Contiued macroeconomic stability and frely detemnled markt ieest
rats ae essential to maintin woe confidence in the pension fuid option, and to
reinforce the longer term success of the reform. It is also essential to put in place a sound
AFJrPs supervisory system that effectively prevent undesiable events, and that if they occr
are dealt with in a timely and decisive manner -to remedy the wrongdoing and penalize the
wngdoer. The law creates a superintendency of pension fund managers-  e dia
de Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones (SAFJP)-a financially and
functionally i ent public entity under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labor and
Social Sety. The SAFIP wi}l be under the mgee  of a Superint who will be
appointed by the Government. This new ageny bas broad powers to spervis the AFJPs
and push those who violate the new social securt legislaon and related rgulat. The
SAFJP will have to coordinate with other supervsry bodies, such as the BCRA and the
CNV on financial issues perining the new pension funds, but its rlings on social security
will take precedence over other agencies' rlngs. The law provides that the estmg social
security administron finance the necessary epenses of putting SAFJP in opetion, unil
the latter generates its omn revee. It also sus that the government should provide
SAFJP with the necessary asset.
21.  Is=es. The law gives SAFJP a great deal of latitude to hire its rquired staff and
rmuera  it aording to Mat  realtiles. One concern, hower, is that it does not
provide a measr of incto the s                   and directors of SAFIP by
establishing minimmn tms in office. This issue needs to be addessed in the enablin
regulations. Since the budget of the new          will not be part of the fiscal-
budget, the law establshes that its revenues will come mainly from AFJPs contributions, in a
mann  proportional to each AFJP's monthly pension fund receipts. Although tWis is
deskable, the enabling regulto  should consider a provision for periodic reviews of the
coniution rate; otherwise, as pension fund assets grow, SAFJP may experience exessively
lare revenues.
IY.   TRAINING RIEQUIREMENIS FOR LONGTERM FINNCIAL
INTMEDRATION
22.   A.M  M    of ] ti   Needs . The chronic absence of medhm and long-term
financing in the past has let the Aiendne baking industry partily dearth of human
capital in the area of project lending. Tbus, a specil and concerted effort is required if the
mber of qualffied lening officers in this area is to ince apidly, and if medium and
long-term finciof buness is to be developed by local bans. If the Agentne  market is
to be scsful in supplying medim and long-teim financig for in   na pojecs, a
much greer knowldge of   de  capitl mart concepts and products will be requred by
all plae  in the finawial marktpace. In particular, bans  mt M dmaticaly
th~~4w *finnm4o1 jme;n..,4wi. oIr#.Ue nwiA Inv'w6Ae. nf 1,aw,Ii~et mo,4m emmjwua.,4e ..



-20 - 
appropriately structure the financing of invesument projects. The absence of such,capabilities
would rest in hig   levels of risk associated with project finaning. Thus, adeque
expertise in this aea would cotibute to lowering ending spreads and better resource
allocation, partculaly in connection with imvestment projects of medium and small-sized
privrae enrprises with limited access to foreign finial m ts.
23.   Pesently, there are no l   oranizations that offer rigorous training to middle and
semor level bank executs on project lending, long-term fimdig or capital markets. For
some banks-mainly foreig-these tainn reqiments are partaUly fulfiSled by sending key
persomel abroad, although duee to its high cost it will continu to be an option of vety
limited scope. Moreover, local finacial training insdtutions may only be able to offer the
type of progams requied after a substantial upgradig of present tn  capabiliies. In
orler for them to achieve international standatds in a timely manner, new taining progams
would be required to cover a broader set of finamncial skdlls and count on expertise with
etensive capital markt and project lending eposuxe in more matr fincial markets. in
this conext, the aim of this component of the project is two-fold: (a) to rapidly develop
enough project financmg capabilities in the domestc finncial marlket to caoer the demand
for local fndin aected to be generad by the private sectors invtment effort in the
next few years; and (b) to give the inital support requied by the local taining industry to
improve the coverage and quality of the financial training it offers on a permanent basis.
24.   The Role of the         . In the area of bank training, the GovMnment sees its
role only as suppordtve of privawe sector activity. In partiular, it is wilin to assist in areas
whre privae intiative is unlikely to respond in a timely fashion,    with the
county's needs. Areas already covered by established trainig o izations, as is the case
with short-tem seminas, university coures and basic tainng progrm, do not reqwre
futher Goverment support. In other areas, such as upgading local project financing
capabilites, the Goverment considers that there is a justfication for selective action on its
part, but only in order to trigger a longer term ronse by private sector training
institution Given the increase sought in  vestm  levels, it is important to make sme that
there is a mote efficient and timely utilatian of the financial resources that are being made
available for project fining.
V. PRWECr DESIGN
25.   A. Argentas  owig private ivestm  rts are expected to
bring about an increase in the demand for domestic term financg in the country. Contimed
macroeonomic stability and capital mariet refom are necessay higdients for the required
expansion in the volume and the tm  of financial savings. Altbough important meaures
bhae already being taken by the Govermen  with rspect to capital maket refom, much
remains to be done befor local financial mares are capable of      a more
substantl vome of resources towards investmt projects In paticlar, long-term
naning is sdll inhibited by: (a) high spreads and lending rats charged by domestic banks,
which will quire a special effort to impove bank i iton i the fiuture; (b) shortage
of long-tm finanial savings, -which demands fuer ittional elopme  geaed to
incase  e supply f long-term loamble tfuds; and (c) lack of adequate capita markt
regulaon and superision, whih trans  into a PeePtion of high risk lvels    finanIal



- 21 -
avestors which effctvely shors the matur* of finanicial papes and seepes the yield
curve. A 1993 Financial Sector Adjuset Loan (FSAL) is supporting the down-sizing of
public banis, a   s      of bank spervision and the enfrcement of mgulains. The
poposed Capital Market Development Loan, which this ptoject complemen, is designed to
provide prime-tated banks with a backtop facility for their bond issues which would
effctdvelY exten the term of their financing. At the same tme, IDB and other official
crdi ions are providig BICE with long-tem  credits to finaS e private invesent
and impots though first-tier banks. This tehnal assisce project will complement
ptevious efforts to improve the capital maret oudook by supportng acivities oriented
towards: (a)i       the regulatory framework of the securities market (b) developing an
independent pension fiud syem; and (c) imprving institutional capabilites in the financial
markes for the intmediaon        rces to s 1ppOtt the domestic irvestment effort.
26.   EMet Focus. This project has tee componen   The ft  one concenras on
assistig in the i   n     of the rgltoy framwork of the securities markt by
supportig a      no of CNVs institutional capabilites-n particular its enforcemt
functions. There is also an effort to imptove its staffs skill levels through the
oplementn of an appropriate human resouces policy and an in-house training proga.
Furthemore. this cmpone  aims at improvmig prudetial regulations in the securities
market and the information systems of CNV. The secod component focusses on supportig
the institutional development and reulations requied by the newly reformed pension fund
system. The main effort will be in asistng in the creation and early opertion of the
sAuperitndenyW in charge of pension fumds and their associated administo   Assistance
will be p ded also to develop the norms and regulaions reied for        g the
new penon fnd legislaon. The hd  componnt givws suppt to the development of a
high level trainig program oriented to prwvide the bakng and securities idustres an their
regulatrs with beter term fincing slls and capabilities for privawe sector project
fina g. The Bank would support the Governments objectiv of creating a self-susnable
taining program offered by t!V privawe sector.
VI.  PROJECI DESr RIFON
a.) Develwoe  of the  $ s MW        e
27.   Shem ni   of CNVs    Oon  and  _ mentCNVs insituional
will be achieved by:
(i) eWluation of its curent capabilities and definition of new mission and functions, and
the proposed nwa-.o ional suc , human resources policy, legal framework and
inrmation systm, folowed by preation of a detd  action pla for CNVs
restturing, including tmetable and terms of reference for contracting the development
of policies and their mple ation (conslting company for 10 staff-mont,
US$400,000);
() asistance in the initial phase of CNVs restructuring,  its organizantion-
incudg organizatInal chart and opertion manuals and procedures- legd famework -
-iwwh,din bv-l.aws mid i mi1atint-andv humnn oe ,~nwip imiu..mn,h,usinv atffinia d fixst



-22-                             A
three levels of the new organizaton, approval of compensaton structure and adoption of a
policy for redeployment, recnitment and retention of professional staff-- (consulding
company for 28 staff-months, US$950,000);
(iii) development and implem  o of a  ing progam for CNV's prosional staff
including eWluation of taiing requirments, developmen and prvision of courses, and
superised on-the job-traing (outside consulan, 60 staff-months, US$1.2 million); and
(iv) preparation of guidelines and assisne in preparation of the first 12-month business
plan of CNV (consulting company. 2 staff-months, US$50,000).
The goenment wiUl provide as counterpart computer hardware and software to establish a
management inrmation system for the new oranizional strcture of CNV (Cost: US$1
million). CNV will also pmride countpar in kind (about US$460,000) since a signfican
portion of CNV's stff tie and assets would be dedicated to the reform procss.
28.  U% din of t Seurites Matket Regulations. Assistance will be provided to CNV
to:
(i) conduct an analysis of curent securities marke trends and new reglatory
requirements and prepare a proposal for capital adequacy rules for securities market
intermediaries in accordance with their risk profiles;
(ii) design and implement supervisry systems to ensure compliance with new capital
adequacy ne, including record keeping specifications for in iaries and design and
implementation of CNV's systems for monitoring the financial position of in iaries;
and
(iii) prepare a study with recommendadons to samline and improve coordination among
the different regulatory agencies supervising finanial conglomerates, including specific
arran  proposals between CNV, BCRA and th Superint enc of Insurace.
These tasks will be performed as an intgraed assignment (consulting company, 20 staff-
months, US$650,000). The government will provide computer systems as counterpa,
which would allow CNV to be permanently informed of secities market behaior (cost:
US$300,000). CNV also will provide contepart in kind (estimated at US$100,000),
consistng of staff, office space and equipment.
b.) hlnplem tato  of the Penson Reform Law and New  nion Fnds Svstem
29.   ImpM      9laiAn of the New Legislation. Assistance will be provided to SSS to
implement the new pension fund legislaton, including:
(i) prepartion of norms and regulations required by the new law (consulting company, 30
staff-months, US$360,000);
(ii) creation of the new superintndency of sion funds and their associated
administrars, including by-laws, developmen of organizional structure with an action
plan for its implemeion and detailed job descriptions for all positions, establishment of



- 23 -                           ANNEX I
taini  needs for its staff, dtemination of informadonal needs -including comPuter
sysems configmation-, and management support durng its iital phae of opaion -
including coliection isues- (consulting company and twinnng angement, 135 staff-
months, US$1.9 million; compter hardware and software for US$1 million); and
(iii) Consolidation of pIevious norms and regulations that wil remam active from the
forme sysm, so tat a unified system is acheved. (consulting company, 13 staff-
months, US$140,000).
The goverment will provide US$400,000 as counteprt funds for the hiring of consul
and the purchase of computers. In addition, it will pvide coutert in kind (esimated
US$400,000) through use of stff, office space and equipment.
c.) Maw                Ifnt  Fncal
30.  Upgaing of the Caabilis of Middle and Senior Level Maname= in the
Fmnanuda Malace. A taing credit facility will be established at BICE to finance the
estabLsment of a core training program by private tai  institutions, aimed at upgading
the financial in iation capabilities of middle and high level staff of financial institutions
Financing will be channeled though a two-tier system by which a trning institution wil
request fiuds trugh a commeriial bank, which will act as itmediary while assming full
reonsibilit for loan recovery. BICE, m its capacity as second-tier sution, will provide
norms reula   the use of the credit facility by fiLst-ter ban. These will be inorporatd
into a "Reglamento de Cr6dito". The core taining progrm would aim at prviding high
level traing in the following subjects: (i) Project- Fmane -with emphasis on son-recours
fnancing- (ii) Medim and Long-Term Bank Fxdig including bond financing, BICEs
two-er lines of et and the bacsp facilit- (iii) Securities Marke  in Argenoa and
abroad; and (iv) Long-'lm Bank Planng - with emphss on asset and liabiW
management and control pcures. Basic courses would also be offered in order to bring
all participan  to apprpriate levels requird for the core progm. BICE would consult
with the banking assons on course priorities. The Bank will provide US$1.1 million for
the credit fcility and will review all applications sbm d to BICE. In addition, and
separate from the credit facility, the project consders up to US$150,000 to finance fes and
other related ependitures of middle and seior level staff fom financal sector reguly
agencies, who may want to attend any of th traing programs financed under this faility.
The project would also prove fincing to the Govenmet for up to US$250,000, in case it
decides to develop specific course modules to accelerate the prvison of taing in certan
otber priority areas.
d.) Proed CUord_
31.   Esablislt of aW Pimj   Coorin    Unit. An exstg Project Coorinating Unit
at the Ministry of  conomy will be expanded to coordit and faciliate the efficient and
timely implementation of activies. The unit will asist the beneficiary aN
BICE, Sec     of Social Security and Minstry of Econoty-in all sages of conacting
consltats and acquiing eqipmet and matials under the project. Also, it will upeis
imple tatin ofthe projeat compontsand ensure compliance with theLnAgreement
by the gover.net. It will also assist in the contractig of consln  eired under the
~~-       *_  -_           1_ t    A  _. : A v t   _ -F  A _  rA _  *;



-24-                             ANNE 1
and processing  qurements under that loan, including te use of the Special  count. As
part of its futions, the Coordinating Unit will provide adequa  and timely processing of
the required documents for implemention of the project components. This project will
finance the unit expansion (one adi    r/      and part-time staffs for a total of 90
staff-months, US$330,000; computers and office eqipme, US$20,000). The govnment
will provide office space as counteWrpart (estimated at US$40,000).
VII.  PROJECIr ADNMI TRATION AND IMPMNTATION
32.   project Orgniion and mplemenation. The Borrower will be the Argentine
Republic. The Miisy of Economy (M    will be the Exting Agency. A Govement
official appointed by ME would head a Project Coordinadng Unit as National Project
Director, which will be responsible for overall project implementation. He will be assisted
by a full time Coordinator with power to hire consutnt and request disbursemevt from the
Bank. The same Project Coordinang Unit for Loans 3291-AR (PERAL) and 3292=-AR
(PEREL), which has proved to be very succesa l, will be employed for the proposed
project. The fions of the Project Coordiatg Unit will be to: (a) manage Bank
finncing and technical support to CNV, BICE and SSS, which will be the iplentg
agencies, and monitor compliance with the Bank's legal agreemnut; and (b) assist
aimpementi g agencies in all phases of contactig consultan followmg Bank guidelines.
33.  Ations Agred. The Capital Market Development Project, which the proposed
operaton supports, includes agreeme  concerninSg CNVs    rin, its contied
applition of Resolution 227 to ivestgate breaches and enu  that fte Board of the Buenos
Aires Stock Exchange imposes appropriate penalties, and its enactment of a   ehensive
scheme of prudential reguations. For the proposed CMTAP, the Governmet agreed on the
following during the negotiations: (a) to maitain the Project Coordinating Unit headed by a
National Diector, who should be a Secetary or Undersecrtary of the Ministry of the
Econow, assisted by a full-time Coordiator who should be unversity graduate, at least 35
years of age and with prior expience working with the Bank or a similar insution; (b) the
lbms of Rdrnce for the three components incding a dtied description of the conent
of the course modules of the core taiing program; (c) to carry out the project in accordan
with the main componen  and timetable of the Matrix of Project Activities; (d) to commit
itself to prvision of the required countrpart funding, and to include it in its anmnal budget
when necessary; (e) that the issuane of the norms and regulations of BICEs credit facility
to finance the trainn componen should be a condition of d    for such fcility and
should be acceptable to the Bank; (f) that starting appr ely six months after loan
effectiveness, the Bank would receive semi-annual reports on acual project implemention,
as well as monthy summary reports. Furtrmoe, it was agreed during negoans that the
norms and reglations of BICEs credit facility wwld be made available on a first-co
first-serve basis to all banks in its list of eligible first-tier in ons, thate interest r
charged by BICE to first tier institons should be the same for all and that it should  flect
the cost of funds plus a spread to cover a ta   costs. Normal ieporting  i
includig a mid-term review (Thi  quarter of 1995) have b    included as loan covenants.
34.   Pnu . Coultant employed under the Project will be retained using terms of
refarence nreviuslv agreed bv the Riank firmi'nj e w.iw*;m ,;,' pa    w ;'   ith



- 25 -                          ANNEX St
the August 1981 Bank Guidelies, and under emplome  conditions satsfactoly to the Bank.
Whenne possible, companes, tather thaindividual consultants will be the prefered
approach. Unless the Bank otherwise agrees, the selection procedures will inchlde the use of
short lists of firms with qualificatons and experience found satisfactory to the Bank, and a
letter of invitation describing the selectdon procedre and the evaluation cria to be used,
which should be acceptable to the Bank. Computer equipment and related maintenance
vud be gror-ped in packages of not less than the equivalent of US$100,000 and would be
procured though limited intational bidding (LIB) following the Banks guidelines for
procuremet dated May 199 and using the Bans standard bidding documents.
Miscellaneous equipmen valued below the equivalent of US$100,000 up to an aggregate
amount the equivalent of US$120,000 would be procured through local or internationl
shopping by requestng quotations from at least thee eligible suppliers. With tespect to the
use of BICE's credit facility to finance the taining component, prvate taining instituons,
as beneficiaries, would follw selection procedures acceptable to the Bank, which would be
incorporated into the credit facility's norms and regulations.
35.   Prior Review la the Bank. The Bans rview of praueement pwcedurs would be
as follows: (a)     mand matwhls - the Bank wwold  vw ex-ante pnt
d-oumentaton under LIB procedures, and ex-post, during field supervsion, supportig
documents relevant to shopping procedrs; (b) training credit facilit - all applicatons by
first-tier banks to BICE for the trainig credit facility would be subject to prior review;
conrct with consutig compnies for the eqivalent of US$100,000 or more would be
subject to prior review, with all others subject to prior review of terms of reference and ex-
post review of all other relevant doumentaton during field supervion; and (c) olber
constacts - all otber consultant conauts would be subject to prior revew.
36.   PrTeot Costsa d Dis l. lbtal project costs are estimated at
US$10.2 million, of which US$8.2 million (80 pement) rersn   foreign chane costs.
The proposed Loan is for US$8.5 million (83 percen of total costs), of which US$7.48
million are to finance consultant services and taining related to institutional ad regulatory
developmen, and US$1.02 million to purchase equipment, supplies and maienance iems.
The Goerments contribution in cash is esdmated at US$1.7 million, consistng of
consuting services and computer eipmnM  and softwmre. The counapart contribution for
the securities market compont has already been secured in CNV's budget and the pension
fud component has been agreed to and is in the process of being incorporated in the budget.
The Govenment also will conbute in Ind by providing staff time and office space and
furnishinfs-this contibuton is estimated at US$1 million, not included in the project
finaing plan. R active financing of up to US$850,000 would be provided for outlays
contated from November 1, 1993, onward. This is justified since both the Securities
Market component and the Pension System Fund component need to be initiated at the
beginning ot 1994 in order to provide contiuty to actions already under execution by the
GovernenL  lb ofacilitte payments under the Lan, a special account will be established in
BCRA for an amount of up to US$ 700,000. The Ioan would be completed by December
31, 1997 with a Closing Date of June 30, 1998. Documentaton for disbursemens would be
as follows: (a) euipment and materials - expenditures for cOmpters and related
procured under LB prcedures would be fully doumentd, and those for miscellaneous
equipment procured under shopping procedures would reqire a stment of expdtures
cerdfifedn1ME;s(b) crheuivlet  ofr Se1n- ceit              - contrac with
consultinif comnanies for the eauivalent of US$100.000 or more and all cotrcts wfih



- 26-                            ANEX 1
individual conmsult  would be fully docwmented, while those below these amounts would
require a satemen of exedir  certfied by ME; and (c) orL gMzdW   onsul  - all
other consultnt contacts would be fully documented.
37.   &MM  ad          . Separte accounts will be kept for all epnditu  made under
the project. The Project Coordinatig Unit at ME will maiain records and accounts for all
pioject activites. The accoun  and statemets of expendibtres will be audited each year by
auditos aeptable to the Bank in accordance with appropiate auditing principles
consistentl applied, and the audit reports will be submitted to the Bank not later than four
months after the close o it; fitscal year.



-27 -                                                          ANNEX I
Auacbment I
MATRIX OF PROJECT AC ITI_M
MAIN OBJECTIlVS            PROJECT COMPONENT                                  OUTPU(IMPAT |                   TIMING TARGETS
ACrIVRIM                                                                   (STARTICOMLTON)
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .   . --.       
1.1    ae    of       *   Evaluaion of CNVs curt              Otput: (a) Report on CNV's ac n              *   SWr:
CNV'8                  capabilities as a regulatry         capsbit.s -new mission and functions, oudiniog   Second quarter 1994
Oranizadon and         agev , definion of new              the proposed nw: organizational suue.
Ma _amt                mission and elabooztiou of action   human resources policy, legal fmework and    0   Completion:
plan to guide the imptenrent1ton   nfrmaton systems; and (b) deaied acion pln       Fourth quartcr 1994
of CNVs resuruc98t   progm         for CNV's res uriqg, including timetable and
(Bank finncing: coslating          terms of rerne  fr contracting the
firm; 10 staffmoths (s.m.);        devpmet of poicies and tbeir implementation.
US$400,000)
*   Impact: It provides the blueprint for carryinLg out
a comp_eensive and complex restructuring of
CNV. Aso, it prvides policy makes with a
tool to value diffirent options and selet the most
convenient or Ibasible among them.
*   hplemeno  of CNV's action   *   Output: Asiance in the inidal phase of tbe      0   Start:
plan fr its rerctuing (Bank       restructuig of CNV in the  llowing fields: (a)   Second quarter 199S
fiacing: consut  firm; 28          orgadztion, including the orgazaonl chart
s.m.; US$950,000 million)          and operatdo manuals and procedurs; (b) legal     Completion:
fiamew , Including by-laws ad regulations        Second quarte 1996
requdird by dte new mission of CNV; and (c)
human resouces policy, including the completion
of staffing of the first 3 levels of the new
oraizaton, the apval of die compensadon
stucture for the wole rgantional sure,
and adoption of the policy for redeplcymt,
recruitment and retention of the protsioral staff
-iwcluding optons regarftg sawlr and
incentivesL
h* bpact: Impwved capacity of CNV to efectively
superIe td  securities market and to develop
appropri  regulatry respornes in lie with
._ _ _ _ _-      ardet needs.



-28 -                            1
Attachmnent 1
,____________          MATRIX OF PROJECT ACTIVITES 
MAIN OBJECTIVES            PROJECT CO NMNENT                      EXPECTED OUTPUT/MPACT                      IMNG TARGEIS
_____________  AcrlVrrI ES  _________________________                 _ '   . (STARTI COM PLETION)
0   Developmnt and                *   Output: (a) R rt ealatn CNV's i-house        *(a) Srt:
.Implmentaion of a raiig          and external rainig requAiements; (b) vaos       Second quarter 1995
.proga  for CNr's prtin           course modue coverng prioi awr,
stff (Bnk fnancig: outde          ideicatin of course providers and actual     *   Completon:
conslants 60 s.m.; US$1.2         oficring of the couQse to slctd  aff membe_S;    Third quatr 1995
. million)                        anld (c) supervised 0n-the-job tain  in piy
areas.                                     9*(b) Sta:
Pourth quartw 1995
*   Inpaet: Improved kowle  and techa
exprise of CNV's staff.                     *  Compleion:
Third quarter 1997
9(c) Start:
Four..  quarwer 1995
0 CompletIn:
...__________                      ,,Third quarer 1996
*   Prpeption of a 12-monb            Output   e guidelines for th preparation of  *   Start:
busines plan fr CNV (k            CNV's kubu        plan and asistance in the      Fourth quarter 199
financivg: consodng compay;       prepartion of first 12-month bu s plan of
2 s.m.; US$O0,000)                CNV.                                             Completon:
Fourth quatr 1996
*   Impat: I allows CNV IO refine ias mission
statment and set prioides and perfom
______._____._____._____.    ___       criteria  for the next 12  modts.
*   nsttion of manag*em               Output: Prvison of compuers and softwae for   *   Stat:
informat  sysems of CNV -         new organiatonal strucue of CNV.                 Furth quart  1993
hbarware and software-
(vnm    coup: US              *   Impat: Comprehensive and reliable infrmation    9   Completion:
.________                  million)                          for decision-making.                             Second quater 1996



-29- -NNEX 
Affachmanr 1
MATRIX OP PROJECT ACTIVIES
MAIN OBJECTIVE              PROJECT COMPONENT                        EXPECTED OUTPUT/MPAC                        TIMING TAROEMS
ACWITIS .,                                                                   (STARTFCOMPIE1 ION)
1.2 Upading of          *   Evluatio of cunent market   *        Output: (a) Report cont     an analysis of   *  (a) SMrt:
Securiies Market        trends and propoul I satisfy        current securities market trends and new           Second quartr 1994
Regulations             new reguy needs (Bn                 regulations requireme, and a proposal for
financig: consult  firm; 20         capia adeq       es for intediaries in the    0   Compheon:
s.m.; US$650.000).                  securides madet, in light of die risk profile of   Fourth quarer 1994
nemediaries in dtat market (b) support in die
desg  an Iipeme o of supevisory ytem    *(b) Stwt:
.onsr compliance with new capial adequacy          Fis quarter 1995
rules, iludig rord koepig specificationS for
Intermeiaris and dedp and impmen of    *   C             ti:
CNV's systems fDr monitrigfinancial position       Furth quarter 199S
of               (c) sudy with
recommendations.t strmline and improe    *      (c) Sta:
coordinatio among the dfibrnt regulatory          Thid quarter 1995
agencia supervisig finial coglmaates,
including speciafc angemt    proposa  betwen    *   ComplektIn:
CNV and the BCRA and the Superi          of        Fourth quater 1995
0 Impact: It reduces fte risk associated with
atrad    in dhe securites madkt and gives an
incenve for Its brtr develpent. Aso, it
diminishes the risk of major d ptions in the
.                           s~~~~~~~a ies mare bty u _qce biWme of.
.                                  ben_, ~~~~~~~~~~creafag a4dMonal hcens for   .
sound devepme of the securities mart
.   Instalon of computrid           *   Oput: Computemsm   proving                         St:
infrhation ysem for CNV's           inmaton to CNV on the securities madrkt            Fourt quartr 1993
-          fnilction                acdvity.
goveame  coumnepart;                                                              *   CompetIon:
US$300.000)                    *   Ipa: It alos CNV to hae mely and                    Second quarer 1996
completeurination on the marte and enies it
. I _: , ... 'rv,scs.



-30 -                                                           ANNEX1
Attacmnt 1
._____________                   MATI OF PROJECT ACTIVIlTES
MAIN OBlECTIVES             PROJBCT COMPONENT                        EXPECTED OUTPUT/IMPACT                      TIMING TARGETS
-       gnACTIVITlES                                                                 (START/COMPLEnON)
2.    PM            ,  O   mi NoW PESIO  P.  .. T O                                               .      .-     -. . W.
2.1 Implementation of    *   Support in the development of       Output: Foll  t of noms and reguatons         0   Sa-.
the Now                 norms and reulatiom  requied        needed by the pension rerm lcgisaton               Second quarter 1994
LIegislation            by the nw pension rdem
legislaion   nk finamig:       *   Impact: It is essental step in the implemenatio    *   Compio:
prefrce to consuting                of the pension system reirm.                       Fourh quartr 1995
compies over individas when
aprpiat - 30 s.m.;
US$360,000. Gov. counerpart:
$275,000)            ,             ._I
*   Support in the creadon of the   0   Ouput: (a) Report with the blueprint for the   S   Stt:
w upviry agen                       new  SAFJIP, incldig: () By-laws; (i)              Second qat  1994
coverig pension fimds and their                 chart and acon plan for its
adnnishaws, as well as ibn  ; ii) detailed job descrptons at    *   Completion:
spport tID the managem o f          all levels of dte ornirat; (7Y) establshme         Fourth quater 1995
this nw  agen  (Bank                of de stff tini  poliCY; and (v) proposal for
finacing: (i) prfeence to          the   n'8  infoat  sytm  (b) Aviry
conult  companies over              suport to managment durin the agen's initia
individuals when appropriat &       phase of operat  (fist year).
twinning arange_ m; 135 s.m.;
US$1.9 milion; and (ii)        *   Impact: (a) The new independent penson fands
compubtr hadwae and software        an ppe   supved and the workbeS'
for US$I millon. Govt.               dual accout  am effectively prtcted by
countepart: US$100,000)             SAFP; and (b) by iwncang confidence in the
wnw pension fimd sysm, e presence of a
Sro  Suintendenc supports in accelerating
.the de  ment of Argents capital madret.



-31-
Ausebenut 1
-_____________                                     MATRIX OF PROJECT  IVIIES                                       .
MAI OBIECTI                PROJECT COMPO NT                         EXPECTD OUTUT/IMPeAC                        TIMING TARGETS
ACTIVIIS                                                   _(STAW/ICOMPLEJ1N)
. CooliUdadon into one body of    0   Oukput  A comolided set of norms, reulions   0   Start:
all previo  norms  gutlaos         and prceurs fr the social security sysem -          ourth quarer 1994
and procedures tat wil  mai        whic also Wi rem    acve.
actve fom prviou socil       .                                                        Completion:
securi llaton (Bank            *   Impact: It will allow the efficient execution of   Fourth 4uater 199S
Financing: pre*ree to              procedures for the old social secuity   M.
consuhngcompanies over
individlualswhen apprprIte; 13
s.m.; US$140,000. aovt.
.coutert: $25.000)
3.1 Upgrading of        *   Fuing of a two-ter Waining     -*   Output: Provbion by private tainig instiutons  -0  Start:
Fnancial                fci  at BICE to finance the        of core taining program geaed to middle and        Second quarter 1994
bielation               estabishmt of taing               senior level mangement in te banking and
CaVablllties of         proms by the private secor         securites inus , regulators and financa staff   0   Completion:
-Middle and Senior      (Bank financing: US$l.l             of corporations on the following subjects: (a)    Fourth quarter 1997
Level M geme            millio)                            Project Fiace -with emphasis on non-recoure
in the .in anca                                            financing; (b) Medium and Long-erm Bank
Marplace                                                   Funding; (c) Securities Markets in Argentia and
:.               Abroad; and (d) Lang-term Bank Planning -with
emphass on asset and liability managemen and
control proced-s.
p* Imat. (a) It genertaes a pool of kowledgeable
bank officen and impov tie abtii of financal
instiDtS to structure and manage the riek
associatd wih term credit and with capital
.   .  .           .        .        l                market aactions and products; (b) i impro s
the superity and communiatio abilides of
financial sector regulators by,inceasin their
.Anoot u    of bank operatons and capia
nmaket ictivity; and (c) it triggers self-usain
and complex ftring capabilities at fina
_________.________      ,1_______       sector  training  institutions.



W: 02110 
. [    [ i    {~~~~~?. 



ANNX2
BIE'R1AIMNG FACGMIDI'          F INANCE3
H- CORE TRAINING PROGRAM
1.    The uPmadig of medium and long-tm financing skdlls is a necessary condition for a
more timely use of the resources tha  wd become ailable. Thus, the Govment is
ready to provide limited financial suppor to privafe leairng inStiution tha WiSh to suppy
the advanced tiig requd for the optmap             n of such resorces. in thi
cont, the            has requested the Bank to include a trm finaning taining
compont in tis tchnal assisne loan. The funds allocated to it wi be used to offer a
two-ter borrwing facit  at BICE, the newly created second-tier st bank, which will
intermedie the resources to the local training istry through the conmercal banks with
whom it omates (toda 18 commercial bank).
2.    The Sources of Pboti Trane. The pontal ttainees for this component are
ging to come from basicaly  ee sources.
a)    middle and senor level management in commercial and investment banks and
in the securities industry;
b)    senior financial star of companies with potal investme  prjects; and
c)    middle and senior level gmovmt regula  of agenies supvising the
financial and capital mats.
3.    Lack of basic ifmation makes it hard to get a precise esdmate on the mber of
pottal candidates for the tpe of aing beig popod. Nevertfs, senior
manaemet in the baning  dty vid place theuniverse o poteal   idates in
pritcommecaial b          today at roughly 3 to 5 perent of the ttal numbe of employees.
his would give tday ' minimum nise   rughly 2,000 baning excutdves for the
taining componen  a number tha inases somewhat i  cutiv  from the securities
industry and the corporat world wee tD be inchlded. Pre:liminay estmates also indicate
that roughly 200 regulators could quali for the proposed tiningg. PNrap mor
importay, the need for taied personl would become more uret as time 
and the banks try to take advantage of the new business opporuitdes created by more radily
amiable long-term funig brought- about by the recent Goverment itat.   k   all
these fators into consideration, there is easonable condene ta sufficient demand will
exist in Argeinat-rughly 500 tainees in tee years-for the type of taning being
Proposed.
4.    Iha  CiePrgghraJm. The objecive is that privae taining istiti   in
Agntina start to offer training courses on an inenationl level for middle and senior
maigemn in the fial secto  FoUowg it           onal stanards of the tanng
industry around the world, it ispected tat the program beig proped would offer a
vaiey of one to tw-week waining coures based on specially prepared cous modules.
The cours should be similar in content t tose normally ed by well established in-
hnnAtsalni  in~itu  nf tarae intuiniml hsak - Thev-'chnnld mk~  men  fhmilin .



-34 -
with techniques easily applicable later on in tea litf siations. lb this ptupose, the couwes
should try to simulate on-dte-job siations though the use of computer simlions and
games as well as inclde the use of real lif cas and plenty of intraction beween the
instructor and the stden. Each module should be a anied by a set of printed material
for use by the sudent during the coune and lar on as a source of referee.
5.    The training prgam wold comprise two levels of leaning. The first level would
give all stude  a shml knowledge of basic tools which are a pm-qite for couses of
the second level. This second level would cover differen aspect of tem financing of
investm  projet  Modules of the first levl should cover subjects such as: accoutig,
corporate finance, prudential gulations, marg   hniques for financial produc, risk
asset acceptance critia, read esae lending, treasury management techniques, mon  and
capital marks conceproduct, and the use of collateral in lending. Courses of the
second level should include at least the four basic modules:
a)    Project Fance-with emphasis on non-recourse -financing;
b)    Medium and Long-term Bank Funing-including bond fincing, BICE's two-
tier lines of credit and the backstop facility;
c)    Securities Markets in ArMntna and Abroad; and
d)    Long-term Commercial Bank Planning-with einphasis on asset-lability
management and control Procedures.
6.    Normaly, each stude  should be required to tae only some of the coures at the
fi  level and most of the second. As a genera rule, no traiee should require more tban 8
wee  of taining, to be spread out over the course of one or two year  The price of a two-
week taini  coure is likely to be in t  range of the equival  of US$2,000 to US$3,000
per sudent (based on -rates for compaable courses/seminas in Ainna).
7.    puina     h         in 1uL.n   There are several training istiutons that currenty
offer financial traina   in Arentina. All four banking associatons, for eample, offer
semin  and trahiing courses to bank emploes. Nonetless, the level of the training is
quite basic and far from rahing the levels requied by the courses beig proposed for the
core training prgram descibed in the previous paragph. Courses ae mostly for enty-
levl employes and massive in nature. Also, there are taining institutions, such as the
" 1tut Arno del Mercado de Capitales", which service t  secuities markt with
seminrs and short-term courses. A few univrsities also offer post-gaduate degre  with
emphasis on finil matters. At the other extreme, there are sveal private compas tat
specializ in the supply of higly-visible, ecpensive short-term seminars on finanial and
other businesrelated matters.
8.    The Need for a Credit aility. While pracdcally all isuions in the training
industry reognize the prssing need to prowide the type of tiing  tined   the core
gtaing program, thy feel that it would b pactically impossible fOr them to offer such
couses in the short-teim witu first receiving strong support from the baking industr.
The hig l-eve of resources involved, incudit  a sigficant volume of fixed costs in the
develooment of the course  maks it higMy likelv tat a joint effort bv differn tmininu



-35-                                  -
institutions, on the one hand, and bank and broker  houses, on the other, will be required
to make a reality of the proposed taining progam. While a strong cowmmtme  by
commrcial bank to such a t       proa  is seen as ssenl to secure its pm V,biity
the medium-ferm financing to be offered by BICE is necessay to balance the demanding
cash flow requirments of a taning progm with high developm    costs that requires at
least a couple of yes  of operation before it can recover ully the iniial vesm. Budget
proxjections for the cote train  progam ixdicate that total development costs of the courses
are about US$500,000 and  mat ruing expendius for the first year ae of the order of
US$1.1 million. Given expected tuition income, the amordzaton of capital costs can be
reasonabY completd by year 3. These projections also show that the core taining prgram
could be quite a profitable business if projected demand for the cou'es acually
matialies.2 As an additional incenive to the tainig idusy, the proosed US$1.1
million credit facility at BICE shoud be sufficient to cover the cash flow deficiencies that
those insdttions tht offer the taining progam are  eped to have, patculaly in the fist
year of opeation of the proam.
9.    MM  Credft Eagik. The credit facility at BICE would be deigned to offer to
ficial tain  isdtons, through eligible commercial banks acting as financia
intermedires, up to five-year financing for the preparon of course modules and the inial
working capital requiements associated with periodic course offrings. Taning institons
inrested in offerng coures that are part of the core training program  could access this tm
financing dthugh one of the local commercial baks quaied to refnance loan operadons at
BICE. The credit tisk would reside in the fir-tier bank grantng the loan tothe training
instiu  and the responsibility of evalati  the feasibility of the training prWo  :z being
financed also should be of the bank. The latter should be made easier to evaluab we a
bak willing to give a loan would be able to judge dhicy the attac   of the  t
progam being prposed and wheher it or otder bank have an i     in utlzing the
program for their employees. Given that the Goverment soee   s credit facility as serving
as a sort of tr ing mecanm  for the privae taini  industry, BICE wud accept
commitmn  of funds from this failty ony for hee yeas afler loan approal.
-Aflmbwrds, th attrctiveness of offerig the cre tanig program sbould be clearly
aprciatd by the industry and te should be enough market icentivesin plam to
gua_aee {the connuad on of such a program by the private sector on a more permanent
basis.
1O.   C eith& Iky1gulmi. The nrles and regulatios that would govem BICEs
credit facility fnaned by the Bank lon would be conained in a "ftlamet de Cdto
satsfctory to the Bank  Consultants expernced in bigh level bank training  buld prepare
an amxb tohe regladons describing in detail the  i   cont  coure that would be
part of the core aining program, which would be ready bfo  negotations. O -Oly cou
complyng with the terms of inernce  ontai_ed in that ane, satisactory to the Banke
would be able to get finaning from BICE's credit facility.  I g institutions could
evenualy  quest the addition of new courses rvn to term fin  g m th anne
li.   The "Reglamento de Credito' should at least contain the following basic pdrciples:
2. For'a in deta dmuis   f te bbdit zulnea  _so  ewitskh dt co  rul
ptogaM, see "A      - Prpood Cail Mart lhimiiag Dewlopmi nan Tint*U
*  .Cuonau a deep ni. . es-



-36-                                 2
a)    BICE sbould make the credit facilty available on a first-come first-served
basis to all banks in its list of eligible first-tier insdtdons. Funds are
committed to specific training projects when the appfication is appoved by
BICE, based exclusively on the eligibility of the ranng progu being
proposed for financig. BICE might decide to chare a commitment fee.
b)     h interst rate charged by BICE to first-tier institutions should be the same
for all and refiect the cost of funds plus a spread that reflects administrati
costs.
c)    Ra ts charged by commercial bank to taing instittions should be set by
mutual agreement and should rflect market condidons and the degree of risk
imvolved in each specific credit operaton.
d)    The credit facility can finance up to 100 peent of course developmenl costs
and of fixed costs associated with the traing progrm  beig financed. The
facility can also finance up to 50 percent of the associated woidng capital
quie t of operaing the course for the first year of the program.
e)    Procurement of goods and services finaned with the credi facility will have
to follow Bans guidelines and will have to be acceptable to the Bank, and
will be icorporated to the "pRgamento".
1)    Loans disouned by the fcilit can have up to a five-year term, inclui  up
to one year of grace.
g)    BICE would keep the credit acility avaable for new  ients for thee
years after Board approval and for disbu s for one additional year.
12.   Odher vh"  in the lki&g CWgg=. The project includes two
additonal actvities that can be financed with the taing component. One is the finang
of course fees and relaed expendi     necessary to faciate participation in the core
training program by middle and senior staff of eula y agencies. It is important to hae
reasonable parti     of supervisors in the tg  progm  so that ty are able to carry
out their fmnction with a similar level of technical knowledge than those being supervised. A
higher de   of efficiency is expected from regulators that are able to speak the same
laguage as the rest of banking and securities industries and unestan the whole set of
compkx issues ivolved in term finawg.
13.   Thi dber acdvity that is being proposed for financig by the Bank loan are
Govement exnses associated with the preration of specific course modules coimwctd
out by the Gvenment with the prvate sector follwg Bank competitve procedures. The
purpos of including the financing of this actvit is to make sure tiat coses considered
esseal for th training of in     s  in the financial markplace are offered in a timely
ahion. The maximum Bank financi  allowed for tis acvity is epetd to finamce at
most 50 percet of all cour  modules xced to be icuded in the core taining progrm.
The coure modules to be financed under this-modalty wwld be at the Govenents sole
disrei.



-.P SECTION
.42



1"  .,    ,  .  5   .   _                                      ill~~~~~~~~~~~~~[RD 2|045(
BOLIVIA                  6 !                                 2045
PARAG AY
;p.4              J ;;.-A?  im,i,* +!.  
.  >   - a. . .  t  _         *x9TAw                  /   B~~~~ R A Z ILt
~~KST -9 ¢/ i~~SANTIAGO!S 
3       4
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
N.        ~                                 N
-V,           ICtwswA*
CHUBUT0                                                       .
SANTA
Z-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
~~ v '~  N.---,                           SC'~~~'IMA W&  ~-



