Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19953-AR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Core ICR)
ONA
CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CMDTAL)
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.5 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR
PROJECT ID: P006062
L/C NUMBER: 37100; 3710A; 3710S
December 21, 1999
Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure
Country Management Unit 7
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipient only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1999)
Currency Unit = Argentinean Piso
1 Peso= US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00=1 Peso
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCRA           Banco Central de la Repuiblica Argentina
BICE           Banco de Inversi6n y Comercio Exterior
CMDTAL         Capital Market Development Technical Assistance Project
CNV            Comisi6n Nacional de Valores
PCU            Project Coordinating Unit
SAFJP          Superintendencia de Administradores de Jubilaciones y
Pensiones
SBS            Subsecretaria de Bancos y Seguros, Ministerio de
Economia y Obras y Servicios Publicos.
SEPYME         Secretarfa de la Pequenia y Mediana Empresa
SSN            Superintendencia de Seguros de la Naci6n
SSS            Secretariat of Social Security
Vice President:   David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:   Danny M. Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Margaret Miller



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Argentina: Capital Market Development Technical Assistance Project (CMDTAL)
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data                                                                1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                               1
3.. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry    3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                        7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                          12
6. Sustainability                                                              14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                               15
8. Lessons Learned                                                             17
9. Partner Comments                                                            18
10. Additional Information                                                     20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                           21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                           22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                           24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                           25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components           26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                              27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                          28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006062                                      Project Name: CAPITAL MKT TA
Team Leader: Margaret J. Miller                          TL Unit: LCSFF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: 12/21/99 03:49:56 PM
December 21, 1999
1. Project Data
Name: CAPITAL MKT TA                                  LIC Number: 37100; 3710A; 3710S
Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                          Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: FK - Capital Markets Development
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/18/91                               Effective:                    12/20/94
Appraisal:  08/10/93                                 MTR:
Approval: 03/01/94                                Closing: 06/30/98           09/30/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: MIN OF ECONOMY/MIN. OF ECO
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     David De Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Myrna Alexander                          Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:      Danny M. Leipziger                       Paul Meo
Team Leader at ICR:   Margaret Miller                         Alfredo Dammert
ICR Primary Author:   Claudio A. Pardo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(S=Satisfactory, HS=Highly Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development M
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)                   ICR
Quality at Entry:         S                                    S
Project at Risk at Any Time:  No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
1.    The Project had three original objectives: (a) the institutional strengthening of the National
Securities Commission (CNV) and the reinforcement of the Borrower's securities market
regulations; (b) the development of independent pension funds and the establishment of the
supervisory agency for such funds; and (c) the improvement of the capabilities of middle and
senior level staff of financial institutions in Argentina in the area of term financing for investment
projects.
2.    The first two objectives were clear, realistic, reasonably matched with the capacities of the
implementing agencies, and important for the country and the financial sector structural reforms
that the Bank was actively supporting at the time-and which it continues to support until today.
The institutional strengthening pursued by these first two objectives also were very much in
consonance with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). From this perspective, the
technical assistance provided by the CMDTAL was reasonably targeted to support the creation of
a new regulatory agency and the strengthening of another, as well as geared to reinforce and
develop more effective capital market regulation and supervision.
3.    The third objective of improving project financing lending capabilities, although clear,
ended up being harder to implement, particularly since the use of direct government subsidies for
training staff of financial institutions was discarded from the outset. While the need to improve
term lending capabilities in the local banking sector remains, the immediate motivation for
including this third objective was to facilitate the implementation of the parallel, US$500 million
Capital Market Development Project (Loan 3709-AR). This Bank loan supported a backstop
facility administered by BICE, a state-owned second-tier bank. From this perspective, this third
original objective was in response to perceived shortcomings in the local banks and other financial
institutions, which had to be addressed in order for the financial sector to take full advantage of
the opportunities created by the new backstop facility. However, the objective of training staff of
financial institutions in project financing techniques became unachievable once it became clear that
BICE was not going to be able to implement successfully the two-tier credit line to finance
training activities, which was the chosen vehicle to achieve the proposed objective. Thus, the
original (c) objective in paragraph 2 above was dropped in October 1996, when the first
Amendment to the Loan Agreement was signed. In addition, BICE was also unable to achieve a
successful implementation of the backstop facility that was to benefit directly from this training
program supported by the CMDTAL. The Capital Market Development Project was cancelled in
early 1997 and the ICR for that project found its performance unsatisfactory since it did not meet
its fundamental capital market objectives.
3.2 Revised Objective.:
4.    The objectives of the Project were revised twice in two Amendments to the Loan
Agreement. In the first one already mentioned, the original (c) objective was replaced by the
objective of developing prudential norms and strengthening supervision of the insurance industry.
As was the case with the two remaining original objectives of the Project, this new objective was
- 2 -



clear, realistic and necessary. Furthermore, it also pointed in the direction of seeking institutional
strengthening and reinforcement of more effective regulations in an important industry for capital
market development.
5.    Amendment 1 also added a fourth Project objective: the strengthening of the legal and
regulatory framework for credit reporting systems. The Central Bank of Argentina (CBRA) was
the designated implementing agency, as this was already actively engaged in taking public an
ambitious credit reporting system. The Bank and the Borrower felt that this new Project
objective could greatly improve the legal underpinning of credit reporting in Argentina, benefit the
efficiency of financial resource intermediation in the local financial markets and effectively
complement the efforts of the CBRA. The major impact of this new objective was aimed at
banking lending activities, but there were also benefits expected in the area of financial asset
securitization.
6.    Amendment 2, dated March 31, 1998, added a fifth objective to the CMDTAL: the
strengthening of the Borrower's legal and institutional framework in support of the accessibility
by small and medium-sized enterprises in Argentina to credit from the private sector. The
inclusion of this objective was basically in response to the creation by the Borrower of the
Secretariat of Small- and Medium-Size Enterprise (SEPYME) and the need to rapidly find a
source of technical assistance to support one of the central objectives of this new Secretariat.
However, this new priority in the Government's agenda of financial reform was only marginally
relevant to the reform efforts in the capital market. Its inclusion in the Project was mainly a
matter of convenience as it served the purpose of securing funding for technical assistance from a
source already in place. From the perspective of the Bank, the staff felt that capital market
reforms had not reached down and that this was an opportunity to make progress in at least a
couple of issues-secured credit transactions and leasing-which had been part of the ongoing
dialog with the Government and would be of considerable potential benefit to SMEs.
3.3 Original Components .
7.    The original components were reasonably designed to achieve the objectives of the Project
and they related well to the administrative and financial management capacities of the four
implementing agencies: the CNV, the SSS (Secretariat of Social Security)/SAFJP
(Superintendence of Pension Fund Managers) and BICE. In addition, the Project design
incorporated the main lessons from previous Bank involvement in technical assistance operations.
In particular, the original design limited the scope of the Project, making sure that there was
strong commitment by the Borrower as well as a solid Project management and coordination team
during implementation. Also, terms of reference for consultants and studies were prepared in
advance of effectiveness for all activities included in the implementation schedule. However, in
the end these were only partially used. In practical terms, the work of preparing detailed terms of
reference for each identified activity well in advance of its execution added some inflexibility to
the implementation process. In fact, the dynamics of the capital market reform exposed the
process to changes in the scheduled activities and their priorities, which made it almost impossible
to adhere to the original implementation program. In retrospect, it appears to have been too
much to ask that the Project preparation process could have foreseen the specific nature of each
activity that had to be carried out in order to achieve the Project objectives, particularly of those
-3 -



activities planned for the medium term.
8.    The development of the securities market. Two components were included to achieve this
objective, with a total budget of US$4.55 million equivalent, of which Bank financing was
US$3.25 million and the rest Government counterpart. The first component was the strengthening
of CNV's organization and management, which considered five activities addressing a wide range
of management issues. They included an evaluation of the CNV's structure, the design of a
restructuring program and its implementation according to an agreed upon action plan; the
development and implementation of a training program; the preparation of a business plan for the
CNV; and the installation of an adequate management information system.
9.    The second component was the upgrading of securities market regulations, with two
specific activities, which included an evaluation of market trends and proposals for new
regulations, and the installation of computerized information systems to support CNV's
supervisory function.
10.   The implementation of the new pension funds system. The component to achieve this
objective was the implementation of the newly passed legislation on the subject. To this end, the
SSS started by preparing the groundwork for the establishment of the proper regulatory
environment for the new, fully funded private pension system. Once the SAFJP became
operational and had its professional staff in place,the agency started to implement the necessary
norms and regulations for the smooth and transparent operation of the new industry of private
pension fund administrators. There were three specific activities considered under this
component, with a total budget of US$3.8 million equivalent (US$3,4 million in Bank financing
and US$0.4 million in Government counterpart). Basically, these activities covered the
development of the set of norms and regulations required by the newly created SAFJP to carry
out its functions; the technical assistance necessary to create and establish the SAFJP as an
operating agency, including the required initial management support; and the consolidation into
one body of all norms, regulations and procedures that were to remain active from the previous
social security legislation.
11.   Training program for long term financial intermediation. This objective was pursued by
three different activities, which had a total budget of US$1.5 million, all of it financed by the
Bank. Money was allocated to train regulators and the development of course modules, but the
bulk (US$ 1.1 million) went for BICE's credit facility to support lending by commercial banks to
those engaged in training activities.
12.   Project coordination. The Ptoject also included Bank funding of US$350,000 to support
the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) at the Ministry of Economy, which was required by the
Loan Agreement to support the day-to-day implementation of the Project. A National Director-
either a Secretary or Undersecretary of the Ministry of Economy-headed the PCU and was
assisted by a full-time Coordinator satisfactory to the Bank and other PCU staff. The PCU was to
follow a detailed implementation calendar, which contained the expected initiation and completion
dates for each activity (Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement). Project activities were originally
scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1997, so the Closing Date for the Project was set for
-4 -



June 30, 1998. Eventually, and in part due to the addition of new objectives to the Project, but
also because of delays in the completion of some of the original activities associated with the
CNV, the implementation schedule and the Closing Date were extended for over a year. The
Project was finally closed on September 30, 1999.
3.3 Revised Components:
13.  Improved insurance regulation and supervision. Amendment 1 included two activities to
achieve this new objective. They were important for the future of the insurance industry and
crucial to achieve the stated objective. One of the activities was aimed at reviewing the existing
legislative and regulatory framework of the insurance industry, so that draft amendments could be
prepared both to promote the financial integrity of the industry and to improve the Borrower's
regulatory role over insurance activities. The other activity was designed to evaluate the
institutional capacity of the Nation's Superintendence of Insurance (SSN) and to develop and
implement a program to strengthen it, especially regarding enforcement of prudential regulations.
The leading implementing agency for these components was the Sub-secretariat of Banks and
Insurance (SBS) of the Ministry of Economy, which carried out the first activity mentioned.
However, the second one was executed with the direct involvement of the SSN, once the initial
groundwork had taken place. Initially, the SSN was not an implementing agency, but it ended up
being an active participant in the implementation of the second activity of the insurance
component.
14.   Changes in the regulatory framework and in the supervision of the insurance industry were
long over due, following major changes in this industry in the early 1 990s, when the insurance
market was deregulated, the state reinsurance monopoly was put into liquidation and the largest
insurance company was privatized. Also, the emphasis of the regulatory and supervision effort
had shifted from focusing on premiums and product controls to monitoring the solvency of
insurance companies. In this context, the technical assistance provided by the CMDTAL was
aimed at addressing core regulatory and supervision problems, in an industry still going through a
delicate stage, with high fragmentation, many weak companies and high operational inefficiencies
in some segments of the industry.
15.   Strengthening the legal and regulatory framework of credit reporting. When this
component was added to the Project, three activities were considered for technical assistance.
One was a review of the existing legal and regulatory framework, to be followed by the
preparation of draft amendments necessary to improve such framework. The second one was to
carry out a comparative analysis of credit reporting systems in Argentina and in other countries.
The third activity was aimed at evaluating privacy issues with regard to credit reporting, including
an assessment of how such issues were treated internationally. As already mentioned, these
activities were complementary to those being carried out by the BCRA in connection with its
efforts to implement a free-access reporting system on the status of bank credit of each debtor.
16.   Strengthening the accessibility by small and medium-sized enterprises to private credit.
While the Amendment 2 of the Loan Agreement did not identify specific activities to be carried
out by the SEPYME-the implementing agency-under this component, an understanding with
the Borrower singled out initially five different activities, two of which were of particular interest
- 5 -



to the Bank. One was the review of the legal framework governing secured transactions in
Argentina, followed by the preparation of a draft law to establish the legal framework for the use
of movable goods as collateral for credit operations. The other activity included the review of
legislation covering leasing operations and preparation of a draft law aimed at removing legal
barriers that discourage the growth of lease financing in Argentina. The general thrust was
supportive of the overall objective of expanding term lending to SMEs.
17.   The table below shows the revised allocations of Bank funding to each of the components
that remained part of the CMDTAL until the Closing Date:
Allocation by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component                       Allocation at     Revised
Appraisal      Allocation
Development of the Securities Market                        3.25           2.80
Implementation of the New Pension Funds System              3.40           2.40
Improved Insurance Regulation and Supervision               0.00           1.50
Strengthened Credit Reporting Systems                       0.00           0.10
Strengthened Accessibility to Private Credit by Small       0.00           0.80
and Medium-size Enterprises
Support to the Project Coordinating Unit                   0.35            0.80
Bank Financing to Revised Components                  7.00            8.40
3.4 Quality at Entry:
18.   The performance rating for qualitv of entry of the CMDTAL is considered to have been
satisfactory. At that time, all objectives and activities scheduled under the Project responded to
priorities in the National Government's agenda for financial reform. As stated in the CAS, the
Bank was-and remains-a strong supporter of the ambitious Argentine reform program. In this
respect, the Project was contributing directly to at least two priorities in the Bank's financial
development strategy: the strengthening of greatly weakened public institutions and the fostering
of private sector development, in particular financial intermediation and capital market
development. Also, the Project was consistent with the Bank's safeguard policies. Perhaps the
main design shortcoming was the selection of a training credit facility as the vehicle to foster and
upgrade project financing capabilities in the financial sector. To be sure, the need was there, but
- 6 -



the demand for credit to provide such training never materialized in the marketplace nor did banks
show any interest to lend or borrow for that purpose. The two Project objectives that were added
in the Amendments and that finally were not pursued also diminished the quality of Project design.
Not only they were not implemented, but they did not address directly issues in the capital market
reform agenda. Although the two issues were important for the functioning of financial markets,
the rationale for their inclusion in the Project had more to do with convenience. In a sense, the
resources available under the Project, in those instances, made sure that technical assistance was
available for some pressing new activities even though they were not primarily part of capital
market reform, but complementary.
19.   At appraisal, the main perceived risks were delays in implementation due to management
changes in the implementing agencies and to lack of adequate counterparts. Actually, these risks
materialized to a degree that had a noticeable bearing on Project implementation, mostly by
delaying it. During the Loan's existence there were 4 (or 5?) National Project Directors, a change
in the Minister of Economy which resulted in some shifting of priorities and delays related to
changing leadership at critical moments in project execution at the CNV and SSN. In fact,
implementation progress was even downgraded to unsatisfactory during the supervision mission
of end-1996, a rating that was reverted once again six months later. No doubt it was a wise
design decision to rely on an existing Project Coordinating Unit-headed by a senior National
Project Director-which had been successful in a prior technical assistance operation. However,
this was not sufficient to guarantee a timely implementation. In addition and in retrospect, the
perception by the Bank staff is that it could have helped to contain the bulging administrative
costs of the PCU to have insisted that they be covered by Government counterpart funds rather
than by the Bank loan.
20.   One of the implementation risks not perceived during Project preparation was the already
mentioned inflexibility introduced in the Project design by the Bank TA policy at the time of
detailing every activity under the CMDTAL, even those that were to be carried out much later.
21.   In summary, weaknesses in Project implementation were not the result of unreasonable
assumptions at the time of Project design, except perhaps for the training credit facility
component and some of the other minor factors mentioned above. Rather, managerial changes
and political factors both at the level of the central economic team and some of the implementing
agencies had much more of a bearing on implementation. Also, the absence of a successful
Bank-supported, policy-oriented capital market operation had an impact and contributed to the
observed shortcomings during implementation. Macro events as well, such as the recession
caused by the so-called "Tequila effect", had a much bigger impact during implementation than
deficiencies in Project design.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
22.   This ICR assesses the Project's outcome as satisfactorv, although performance varied by
component. This rating is based on the success in achieving the revised list of Project objectives.
The assessment of the CMDTAL should not be distracted by the fact that some of its specific
-7 -



objectives were finally abandoned. The fact remains that the technical assistance provided by the
Project was crucial in the implementation of activities related to three important objectives of the
capital market reform in Argentina. Indeed, the Project was instrumental in the creation of the
new private pension system in Argentina. In fact, the outcome of the work to establish a sound
private pension system, to which the CMDTAL made an active and timely contribution, is worth
highlighting. Also, the Project provided resources to support the modernization of the
information systems and enhancement of the professional capabilities and training at the CNV.
Further, it allowed carrying out most of the groundwork necessary to enhance the legal
framework of the insurance industry and the feasibility work to upgrade the institutional
capabilities of the SSN. All this is of substance and crucial to the successful reform of capital
markets in Argentina.
23.   The reservations derive mainly from the significant delays in the implementation of some
activities that have left some of the reforms still unfinished. To a degree, this makes overall
Project outcome somewhat uncertain, particularly with respect to the legal, regulatory and
institutional work done to upgrade the insurance industry. To a lesser degree, this problem is also
present in the work done at the CNV. The current economic crisis illustrates the urgent need to
consolidate and accelerate the pace of capital market reform in Argentina, as delays in the reform
process add to the difficulties to make the economy more productive and competitive. Also, now
that the country is due for a change in Administration unfinished reform processes are exposed to
further delays. The higher than anticipated administrative costs that resulted mainly from the
delays were also detrimental to the global outcome. Indeed, operational costs of the Project
Coordination Unit ended up being 12% of the total Project cost, as compared with the 3% figure
originally budgeted.
4.2 Outputs by components:
24.   The assessment of the developmental achievements of the CMDTAL is summarized in
Annex 5. The effort here is to try to evaluate how each of the Project components contributed to
the general outcome.
25.   Development of the securities market. Given the narrowly defined scope of the Project, in
retrospect the output of the CMDTAL was satisfactory, although initial delays in implementation
by the CNV undermined the effectiveness of the technical assistance it received. However,
implementation eventually got back on track, once Project activities got renewed management
attention and commitment by the CNV. Some activities supported by the Project, such as the
advanced investor information system for which the CMDTAL provided some technical assistance
as well as computing equipment and software financing, still are in the process of being fully
implemented. The same can be said of the extensive institutional restructuring efforts that were
backed by the Project and which by far absorbed the single largest amount of Bank financing.
However, there was noticeable progress in the supervisory work of the CNV, a process that was
supported by several Project activities, including the preparation of operational manuals and
intensive staff training in key areas of responsibility. Also, the CMDTAL facilitated the
introduction of better human resources policies and practices, which were much enhanced. In
particular, the Project supported a permanent and modern training program at the CNV.
-8 -



26.  In summary, this component of the Project had a substantial impact on institutional
development and public sector management. Its impact on financial policy was more modest,
although as in the case of its impact on private sector development, this could be much more
substantial in the future once the promoted reforms become fully operational. Nonetheless, some
tasks originally envisioned under the Project still remain unfulfilled, such as the completion of an
in-depth restructuring of the CNV, ideally based on a revised organic law. Also, there are
indications of other pressing needs to further strengthen the securities market legal and regulatory
framework, including a revamping of the private rating industry, the launching of successfully
regulated future markets and the enactment of a new bankruptcy law.
27.   Implementation of the new pension funds system. The outcome of this component is rated
as highly satisfactory, due to the key and timely impact that the technical assistance provided by
the CMDTAL had on the launching and development of the new private pension fund industry in
Argentina. As scheduled, the Project gave support to the implementation of the initial set of
norms and regulations necessary to reform the pension system of Argentina. The Project also
supported the implementation and start up of the SAFJP, the regulatory agency for the pension
system and the newly created private pension administrators. The CMDTAL also provided
assistance to consolidate and enhance the operation of the SAFJP until late in Project
implementation. In addition, it financed equipment and technical assistance to develop the
Superintendence's database and its information system. All this allowed the consolidation of
norms and procedures. In addition, the CMDTAL supported the integration of the old regulatory
framework for social security into the functions of the SAFJP.
28.   Judging by the significant impact they already have in the local capital market and by the
growing importance of the new private pension funds and pension fund administrators, the Project
had high achievements on institutional development, private sector development and financial
market issues. The CMDTAL played a key role in supporting the implementation of the new
pension fund legislation from the outset, both with financial resources and timely technical
assistance. Also important was the Project's impact on public sector management, as the new
pension system has had important fiscal implications, besides modernizing a function traditionally
mismanaged when in public hands. Eventually, it should have a major impact on poverty
alleviation if the new pension system improves as expected-as it matures in the years to come-
the economic well being of retiring workers. In the meantime, the large pools of new financial
savings made available by private pension funds is having a substantial impact on financial
intermediation in Argentina and its capital market in particular.
29.  Improved insurance regulation and supervision. There was progress under the two
activities included under this component, particularly in the area of assessing the legal and
regulatory framework of the insurance industry. The evaluation of the institutional capacity of the
SSN and of ways to strengthen its capacity also was carried out. However, implementation of
recommendations under all these activities did not make as much progress as expected, so the
outcome for this component is rated as satisfactory. but with some reservations.
30.  Insurance Law Reform. To be sure, the Project supported a thorough review of the two
laws that define the legal framework for the industry, which was completed in early 1998. Also,
-9-



draft laws were prepared to amend Law 17,418 pertaining to the issuance of insurance policies
and insurance contracting, and Law 20,091 covering the legal underpinnings of the insurance
industry, its companies, regulations and the SSN. After some initial delays, the Government
circulated the newly drafted laws within the Government and the industry, which resulted in new
revisions and changes. Submission of these new laws to Congress was made a third-tranche
condition of the November 1998 Special Structural Adjustment Loan (SSAL), which should help
ensure that they make it to the Legislature. They are expected to be sent to Congress within the
next one to two months.
31.   Strengthening Enforcement by the SSN. The other objective of the insurance component
was to strengthen enforcement by the Superintendency of Insurance. The Borrower took an
important step in this direction with the adoption of drastically increased minimum capital
requirements for insurance companies (SSN Resolution 25,804). The adoption by the SSN of an
action plan for enforcement of the new capital requirements set forth by its Resolution 25,804 was
one of the financial sector actions included in the SSAL of November 1998. Progress also has
been made in the supervisory function, including the implementation by the SSN of its first early
warning system, which the Superintendency formalized via a Resolution 27198 on December 3,
1999. Nonetheless, the early warning system that has been implemented by the SSN remains a
first approximation to the topic. In fact, the initial early warning system recommended by the
foreign expert hired through the CMDTAL was rejected by the SSN. This felt that the proposed
system, although applied in more mature insurance markets, was impractical in Argentina, given
the current status of historical databases and the fragile conditions of a large segment of insurance
companies. Also a matter of concern is that there has been limited progress in the implementation
of an action plan to strengthen the SSN operationally, which to be effective most likely will
require substantial changes in its organic law and a new, more market oriented human resources
policy. In summary, much remains to be done to improve the working and safety of the insurance
industry, increase its transparency and achieve a reasonable resolution of the serious solvency and
liquidation problems faced by a significant portion of casualty insurance companies. It should be
noted that the SSAL also accelerated and reinvigorated activities to strengthen enforcement of
insurance, in particular through conditions related to the adoption of an early-warning system and
review of the satisfactory enforcement of the new capital requirements. The work done on
insurance under the CMDTAL provided the basis for including this issue in the SSAL conditions,
while at the same time, the SSAL increased the pressure for adopting reforms in this area.
32.   In summary, the achievements concerning public sector management of insurance
activities were modest under this component. More substantive were the achievements on private
sector development and financial issues that followed mainly after the market-entry liberalization
of 1998. In the insurance sector considerable obstacles to reform remain, derived from the
persistent solvency problems of many of the old players, which contrasts with the solid capital
base of recent, mostly foreign entrants, as illustrated by the solid capital base of companies
offering annuities and life insurance policies. In this environment, it appears that a broad
consensus within this highly segmented industry as well as political compromise is required for the
necessary legal reforms first to be enacted and then implemented.
33.   Training program for long-term financial intermediation. . After several efforts to make
- 10-



the two-tier training credit line operational, it became apparent that there was practically no
interest in the marketplace in lending or borrowing for the implementation of training programs
and courses in the field of project financing. There was agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank that the proposed objective was unachievable in the context of the CMDTAL. As a result,
there was no tangible development outcome. Thus, this Project component is rated as
unsatisfactory.
34.   Strengthened credit reporting systems. Even though the Central Bank did accomplish its
original objective of setting up and maintaining a freely available credit information databank of
bank debtors accessible via the internet, the related Project objective of improving the legal and
regulatory framework of credit reporting was not pursued by the BCRA. None of the three
activities identified under this component was carried out and the BCRA did not get any finding
from the CMDTAL. In retrospect, this component should not have been included in the Loan,
since the commitment of the BCRA to this legal reform agenda was weak and, as was learned
subsequent to the ammendment, the BCRA was opposed in principle to using funds from Loans
administered by the Ministry of Economy. It remains the case, however, that the legal and
regulatory framework for credit reporting is still in need of significant improvement, so that the
outcome for this component is rated as unsatisfactory.
35.   Strengthened accessibility to private credit by small and medium-size enterprises. This
component was not carried out by the SEPYME and it is rated as unsatisfactory. In the end, this
new Secretariat was able to use alternative sources of funding for its activities and it basically
abandoned its initial commitment, not using any funding from CMDTAL. Furthermore, the
capacity of the SEPYME as an implementing agency has remained limited. Thus, it has made
only partial progress towards fulfilling the objectives for which it was created, in particular that of
improving the legal and institutional framework in support of better accessibility to private credit
by small and medium-size enterprises. Although two of the activities identified under the
CMDTAL to achieve this fifth objective of the Project were later on successfully carried out by
the SBS, much remains to be done on the subject of accessibility by small and medium-size
enterprises to private credit. A successful implementation of this component could have had a
substantial impact on poverty reduction, but so far there has been no developmental achievements
under it. This could well be reversed if the two pieces of legislation prepared by the SBS with the
support of the Project and now in Congress are enacted. One of these two laws improves the legal
framework for the use of movable goods as collateral for credit operations - this law faces a
difficult approval process. The other piece of legislation removes legal and tax barriers that
discourage the use of lease financing in Argentina and has already been approved by the House
(Diputados). Both pieces of legislation would greatly enhance the ability of small and
medium-size enterprises to access formal, cheaper credit sources in the local financial market. As
with insurance, the SSAL accelerated and reinvigorated these legal reforms which had been
advanced previously through the CMDTAL; presentation of both the leasing law and secured
transactions law to Congress were fulfilled as second tranche conditions.
36.   Support to the PCU. The work done by the PCU in support of Project implementation is
considered to have been satisfactory. The Borrower, prior to the Bank's Board presentation,
appointed the Project's National Director and the Coordinator in charge of day-to-day operations.
- 11 -



In spite of this Unit's satisfactory work, the Project had initial delays, until the National Director
of the Project-originally a Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, whose position was eliminated,
and then the new Undersecretary of Banking and Insurance-started to focus on Project
implementation. In fact, the Project actually became effective almost ten months after its Board
approval, just at the onset of the external crisis of December 1994. The Project faired better
under the Under-secretariat of Banking and Insurance, which took over the Project in 1995.
37.   One of the results of delayed implementation was inflated administrative costs, which were
financed by the Bank loan. To be sure, the Government was responsive to the mounting costs of
the Unit, reducing its staffing in early 1997 to fit the actual workload. Another source of
administrative cost inflation was the fees paid to UNDP, which were not originally budgeted. The
hiring of UNDP to facilitate contracting under the Project was an issue of contention with the
Borrower, with the Bank initially opposed. In the end it was agreed that UNDP be used, with its
fees paid by the Borrower. Bidding for public contracts in Argentina can be quite cumbersome
and is often exposed to delays and uncertainties, which are normally avoided by contracting via
UJNDP. By contracting under the umbrella of the UNDP, bidders are ruled by the international
framework applied by the United Nations, eliminating the usual delays and practices that normally
undermine direct public sector procurement in Argentina. In the case of the CMDTAL, the PCU
was able to avoid significant delays in the implementation of one of the insurance activities by
using the contracting services of the UNDP. Contracting under the UNDP umbrella also provides
more latitude and flexibility (e.g., income tax issues and salary levels) to the Central Government
in the fee scheme it applies in the hiring of consultants under a project.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
38.   This section is not applicable in the present ICR.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
39.   This section is not applicable in the present ICR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
40.   <Rating of Institutional Development Impact is not being implemented at this time
pending further analysis to permit meaningful and consistent guidance for its application.)
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
41.   Basically, most factors were within control of the Government or its agencies. Perhaps
the main potential obstacle to capital market reform outside the Government's control was the
legislative process in Congress, which is often needed for in-depth reform, as is the case with the
modernization of the insurance industry. However, obstacles in passing legislation did not play a
major role since the Government did not make much progress in sending draft legislation to
Congress in the first place. Considerably more bearing on Project implementation was the fact
that this technical assistance operation lacked a successful, parallel and comprehensive policy
- 12 -



oriented Bank operation supporting capital market reform in Argentina. This is perceived as
having caused the Project to lose some of its focus, which also helps in explaining some of the
delays in its execution. The fact that the big Capital Market Development project (Loan
3709-AR) was unsuccessful and had to be canceled did not help in keeping the focus of the
Government on the objectives of the CMDTAL.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
42.   The previous paragraph indirectly suggests that central to reform is the commitment of the
Government to the objectives of a project. In the case of CMDTAL, the initial priorities were
clearly with the reform of the pension system, which helps explaining the success in implementing
the new legislation with the support of the Project. On the other hand, the Project suffered
initially from lack of attention by key decision-makers at the Ministry of Economy, who could
have improved Project effectiveness as well as accelerated implementation of the agenda of
activities at the CNV. One question is why the reform of the insurance industry was not part of
the original list of objectives. To be sure, the need to reform this industry had been recognized
for some time. However, the Government became resolved to address the important issues it
faced in the insurance sector only after the Project was being implemented. Its commitment
became evident once the Government decided to change the old business model for the casualty
insurance industry. The liberalization and privatization that took place also required a full
revamping of the legal and regulatory framework of the insurance industry. It was for this
purpose and to enhance supervision of the insurance industry that the Government decided to use
the technical assistance provided by the CMDTAL. While the Project provided the technical
assistance and the means to support the reformulation of the legal and regulatory framework for
the insurance industry, this has not been enough for achieving a successful reform. Faster
progress has been delayed by the political, fiscal and financial difficulties of successfully solving
the complex issues of insolvency and bankruptcy faced by the old segment of the casualty
insurance industry. The difficulties of dealing with many weak companies in a highly fragmented
industry and with a SSN in need of a major overhaul have added to the Government's difficulties
to consolidate the reform of the insurance business in Argentina.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
43.   In the case of the CMDTAL, the factors that stand up behind the success of implementing
agencies are the commitment, dedication, leadership, continuity and professional capabilities
behind each of the teams. Those components, such as those dealing with the pension reform, that
had continuity and an able team from the outset, accomplished the most. In the case of training at
the CNV the incorporation of a dedicated implementation team was able to retake this activity
and finally execute it successfully. On the other hand, the objective of strengthening accessibility
to private credit by small and medium-size enterprises suffered from a lack of implementation
skills at the SEPYME. In the case of the credit reporting system, the lack of initial commitment
and identification by the BCRA and identification with the objective of reforming the legal and
regulatory framework-strongly favored by the Bank-led to failure in the implementation of the
selected activities. In summary, the CMDTAL was able to present a coherent and useful package
of activities, with a high potential for a developmental impact. Implementation success came most
often when the implementing agencies showed both commitment and professional capabilities to
- 13-



execute their assigned responsibilities.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
44.   At the end, the total cost of the Project amounted to some US$7.4 million, of which the
Bank Loan 3710-AR contributed close to US$7 million-the original loan amount was US$8.5
million. Other Project costs were covered by Government counterpart funds. Most of the
financial resources of the Project were used to hire consulting services, which explained some
79% of the total spent. In comparison, during appraisal that percentage was projected at 73% of
the total Project cost. The rest of Project resources, some US$1.58 million, were spent on
equipment and materials. Annex 2 presents more detailed figures on Project costs and financing.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
45.   Practically all achievements under the Project are highly likely to be sustainable. In
particular, it is highly likely that what was accomplished in connection with the private pension
reform and actions successfully completed at the CNV and SSN will be sustained over the
foreseeable future. Also, there is a good chance that financial reform will deepen in the years to
come. This view is reinforced by the fact that the Government remains formally committed to
financial reform, including that of capital markets, as illustrated by the policy matrix of the SSAL
currently being implemented. Furthermore, the economic programs of the recently elected
Administration has reaffirmed its commitment to the prevailing economic model and to further
financial reform, in particular.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
46.   Currently, the Bank does not plan a follow-up capital market TAL. However, some of the
objectives of the Project are being pursued further under the current SSAL of November 1998.
As already mentioned, this policy operation included specific financial sector actions for which the
CMDTAL provided necessary technical assistance groundwork. In particular, the S SAL required
as part of its conditionality the adoption by the SSN of an action plan for enforcement of
minimum capital requirements by insurance companies. Also, it included the presentation to
Congress of draft laws to strengthen and facilitate the use of movable goods as secured collateral
in credit operations and to remove barriers limiting the use of lease financing.
47.   In the current transitional political environment in Argentina, the desirability of follow-up
work to the CMDTAL should be evaluated once the new Administration is established in office.
The identification of a new operation in the sector ideally should wait to see the progress made
under the current SSAL and any further TAL should be addressed as a complement to a parallel,
policy oriented operation geared to deepen financial reform in Argentina. The experience gained
through the CMDTAL and SSAL does suggest high-priority issues which the Bank should
continue to address in its on-going dialogue with the Borrower. These include deepening reform
of the insurance industry, in terms of a new legal framework, restructuring of the Superintendency
and enhancing its enforcement capabilities, and strengthening the legal and regulatory framework
for capital market and financial sector development including reform of the ratings industry and
- 14-



related regulations, tax treatment of financial instruments, secured transactions reform and leasing
law reform. New impetus is now being given to SMEs in policy dialogues. Since many of the
legal reforms are in discussion in Congress, the Bank should consider how it might contribute to
informing legislators, members of the new executive Government and even a more general public
regarding their merits.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
48.   The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation assistance and appraisal of the
Project was satisfactorv. The original objectives of the CMDTAL and those added during
execution were consistent with the Government's agenda for financial reform and the Bank's
CAS. Also, the Project design incorporated the lessons from past technical assistance operations
and relied on the existing staff and setup of an already experienced Project Coordination Unit.
Furthermore, the Bank knew well and had contributed heavily already to the financial reform in
Argentina. The Bank's experience was well documented and it was familiar to the staff that
worked on Project preparation. (The Bank inputs to the Project are summarized in Annex 4). As
already mentioned, the Bank recognized during appraisal the risks of delays in implementation due
to management changes in the implementing agencies and to lack of adequate counterparts.
These were risks worth taking, however, given the importance of the Project objectives to capital
market reform and the exceptional track record of the Argentine Government in reforming the
economy during the years preceding the approval of the CMDTAL. Perhaps the main
shortcoming in Project design was the inclusion of the training credit facility as one of the
components. However, there were practically no other options once the use of direct
Government subsidies was ruled out for the training of the staff of banks and other financial
institutions. Once the non-viability of this component was confirmed during implementation, it
was dropped from the Project.
7.2 Supervision:
49.   The Bank performance in supervision also is considered to have been satisfactory. In
general, the Supervision Forms 590 were realistic and adequately reported implementation
progress. However, at the beginning of Project implementation there was a lack of continuity in
supervision due to frequent changes in Task Managers. Full-fledged supervision missions took
place at least once a year, although following the review of the Project agenda in mid-1996 the
frequency of supervision missions was increased. From then on the staff reviewed the Project
agenda often and the two Loan Amendments that took place tried to reflect new priorities in the
reform effort. In this respect, the staff was responsive to the Borrower's changing needs,
although some of the activities incorporated by the Amendments were only complementary to the
main thrust of the capital market reform effort. In retrospect, it might have been better to have
reduced the loan amount when BICE's training credit facility was cancelled. Also, technical
assistance operations tend to be demanding on staff time on a day-to-day basis due to the large
number of relatively small non-objections that have to be reviewed and processed. The CMDTAL
was no exception, and at times there were delays on the approval process that actually slowed
down Project implementation.
- 15 -



7.3 Overall Bank performance:
50.   Given the Bank's lending and supervision performances analyzed above, the Bank's
overall performance can be considered satisfactorv.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
51.   The Government preparatory work for the Project was satisfactory. By the time of
negotiations, the Government had reviewed and agreed to a detailed matrix of project activities.
Also, the terms of reference for all activities included under the securities market and the new
pension fund system components had been agreed on with the Bank. In addition, the National
Project Director and the Coordinator of the PCU were confirmed prior to Board presentation.
Besides, some of the work on the new pension system and the securities market had been initiated
prior to Loan signing, so US$850 thousand in retroactive financing was allowed. Together with
the Bank, the Borrower went along with the design of the training credit facility for which BICE
was the implementing agency.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
52.   The Government's implementation performance can be considered satisfactory, but with
some reservations. The work done by the Govermnent under the Project had tangible results in
improving the regulatory framework and supervision in three important industries, crucial to the
development of capital markets: pension funds, securities and insurance. However, work
progress was slower than originally scheduled and this was due, to an extent, to the unevenness
over time of the Government's commitment to some of the Project objectives, commitment that
was particularly weak at the beginning of Project implementation. In part this was the result of
lack of involvement by the Project's National Director, with the CMDTAL regaining momentum
when there was a National Director focused on carrying out the agreed on activities-as was the
case when the Project was under the Under-secretariat of Banking and Insurance. To be sure, the
successful pension fund-related component had a momentum of its own and moved forward
smoothly, taking advantage of an efficient implementing agency and the broad political consensus
around the need to create and develop the new privately managed, fully funded pension funds.
The other components, original ones and those added during implementation, did not have the
same degree of political momentum behind them, so they could have benefited from a little more
attention from those in the Governmnent leading the -often successful-financial reform effort.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
53.   The record of the nine implementing agencies involved in Project execution was mixed
(see Annex 6). Some of them, like the SAFJP, had a highly satisfactory performance. Others
(SBS, CNV, PCU) did satisfactory work, while others (BCRA, BICE, SSN and SEPYME)
performed unsatisfactorily. The BCRA was never committed formally to carry out the actions
required from it and in this respect the Bank and the Borrower should have made efforts to secure
the BCRA commitment prior to the inclusion of the credit-reporting component. In the case of
BICE, this did not formalize its participation in the Project until the summer of 1995, even though
- 16 -



it participated in Project preparation and negotiations. Furthermore, it never produced the credit
regulations for the two-tier facility providing loans for training activities or named an official
counterpart to carry out Project-related activities. Besides the problems of design already
mentioned, this attitude of BICE certainly contributed further to undermine the viability of the
training component and the valid objective it pursued.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance:
54.   As already pointed out, the CMDTAL had significant and sustainable achievements,
adequately contributing to the advancement of the capital market reform in Argentina. Thus, in
retrospect, the overall performance of the Borrower is considered to have been satisfactory.
However, some reservations are in order, particularly in connection with the overall commitment
to the objectives of the Project during execution. In practical terms, all this translated into delays,
first in meeting the effectiveness conditions and later on in the slower than expected progress
made in reforming the legal and regulatory framework of the insurance industry. Also, much
work remains to be done on regulatory and supervision issues in the securities market. The fact
that more progress was not made is understandable to some extent in view of the heavy agenda of
financial reform that the Government had to address simultaneously with the implementation of
the CMDTAL. Indeed, there were many urgent and demanding banking issues that had to be
addressed at the same time. This included, among other things, ways to diffuse the serious
liquidity crisis suffered by provincial banks and some private banks after the onset of the late-1994
financial crisis. Also, the Government opened up financial markets further to competition (e.g.,
expansion of securitization through financial trusts, streamlining of pension fund regulation, etc.),
improved banking regulation and supervision and accelerated the processes of liquidation of
provincial and other insolvent banks. It also pushed for the privatization of public banks,
provincial and national. In this buoyant environment of financial reform, some implementing
agencies, as already explained, were not able to keep pace with the agreed upon implementation
schedule, which was detrimental to Project execution.
8. Lessons Learned
55.   Several of the lessons derived from the execution of the CMDTAL have already been
suggested earlier in the text. This section summarizes them and highlights those of more general
applicability and relevance for similar projects.
*     Technical assistance projects have limitations in addressing structural issues. It is much
more effective to have them be a complement to a policy-oriented operation to which they
provide their support. In the case of the CMDTAL, there was a larger, parallel Capital Market
Development project, but when the latter did not work as expected, the Project was left
somewhat orphaned in its effort to support capital market reform in Argentina. It is often too
much to expect of a technical assistance operation, however effective, that it performs well on its
own in matters that require decisive political action or complex decisions, which probably was the
case of insurance and securities market reform. The experience with CMDTAL suggests that this
could have been more successful supporting a policy oriented Bank operation.
*     There is a tendency by borrowers and the Bank to overestimate the capacity to absorb
- 17-



technical assistance. The CMDTAL had a limited list of objectives and activities, all of which had
been clearly identified and for which-with the exception of the training credit facility-terms of
reference had been agreed on. However, even in this clearly thought out Project, there were
significant limitations in the capacity of the Borrower to carry out the implementation schedule in
the Loan Agreement. The lesson here is that even when there is a sound administrative structure
in place, the capacity to procure is limited and is a victim of unforeseen frictions, particularly in
countries like Argentina, where contracting by the public sector can be quite cumbersome. TALs
are administratively demanding and management intensive operations. More emphasis should be
put on contracting and procurement issues during Project design.
*     Project design should not overestimate the capacity to foresee each activity necessary to
achieve a given objective, particularly those far into the future. The experience with the
CMDTAL is that the inclusion of a detailed, comprehensive implementation schedule in the Loan
Agreement did not improve project implementation. On the contrary, to assume perfect vision of
future project activity at the time of project preparation can even be counterproductive. Perhaps,
project design should be less ambitious and, and while spelling out clearly the TAL objectives,
include only a detailed work plan for the first year of implementation, leaving agreement on the
activity pipeline from the second year on to a detailed annual review process.
*     It pays to include a sound project management structure as part of the design of a
technical assistance project. The CMDTAL once more showed the importance of having an
experienced Project Coordinating Unit. The commitment and dedication of the Project's National
Director also were crucial for a fluid implementation. However, the Bank should 'try to avoid
financing the administrative cost of the PCUs, since a Government funded unit would improve
overall accountability and make the Borrower more cost conscious. Moreover, an effort should
be made at the time of project preparation to formalize as much as possible the commitment of
implementing units to the objectives and activities of the project, particularly when those
implementing units are autonomous governmental agencies, as was the case of the CMDTAL.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower provided the Bank with a detailed, 35-page evaluation of
Project implementation, which was prepared by the Undersecretary of Banks
and Insurance of the Ministry of Economy of Argentina. This report has been
placed in the Project files and is available to interested readers. This
ICR only includes Section V of the report (unedited and in Spanish), which
contains its global evaluation and conclusions. An English translation is
also attached for the convenience of readers.
Section V: Evaluaci6n Global - Conclusiones
Este Proyecto tenia en su diseno inicial una segunda parte relacionada, que era el prestamo
3709-AR y que no pudo concretarse. Esto cambi6 sustancialmente el sentido general e inicial de
este pr6stamno. Ello determin6 que luego el Proyecto quedara circunscripto a financiar
componentes de Asistencia Tecnica.
- 1 8-



No obstante ello, se considera que constituy6 un acierto el haber mantenido el proyecto por
cuanto los objetivos para los distintas partes eran sumamente valiosos para el mejoramiento del
mercado de capitales y financiero de la Argentina Ademas, debe merituarse que sin este Prestamo,
dificilmente se contaria con los variados e importantes aportes que han resultado para cada una de
las areas involucradas las nuevas herramientas que deja la implementaci6n de este proyecto. Estas
herencias consisten tanto en equipamientos, capacitaci6n, proyectos de Leyes, Regulaciones,
Planes Estrategicos, analisis de tuncionamiento de los entes de supervision, e informes tecnicos.
Por lo expuesto se considera que la correcta valoraci6n del Proyecto debe ser tomada a partir
de la revisi6n de los objetivos iniciales, y los resultados obtenidos.
Se considera que quizas existi6 un cierto grado de rigidez en la formulaci6n un tanto
excesivamente especifica de ciertos componentes, y hubiera sido deseable un mayor grado de
flexibilidad para adaptarse a cambios en las prioridades o problematicas que la prestataria resolvi6
de otras formas.
Es ineludible que los sucesivos cambios en los responsables de los O-anismos de Ejecuci6n
como en la Direcci6n Nacional del Proyecto, le quitaron continuidad a la ejecuci6n del prestamo.
Pero ello deberia contemplarse en el -turo como algo esperable en proyectos de plazos extensos
de duraci6n en paises en vias de desarrollo. Sin perjuicio de estas observaciones, se considera que
ellas no afectaron la obtenci6n de los resultados definidos bajo el prestamo y s6lo se tradujeron en
una necesidad de mayor tiempo para la conclusi6n de ciertos componentes
La prestataria considera que ha obtenido en forma satisfactoria los objetivos esenciales del
Proyecto, y que ellos han constituido una contribuci6n decisiva para el mejoramiento del mercado
de capitales, financiero, seguros y fondos de pensiones en la Argentina.
Por ultimo se entiende que ha sido clave y altamente favorable el rol de asistencia de los
integrantes del Banco para obtener estos resultados, quienes actuaron con una colaboraci6n *
amplia y oportuna en todo momento.
Section V (English Translation)
Global Evaluation - Conclusions
This project was initially designed as a complement to Loan 3709-AR, which was not
implemented as planned. This substantially changed the initial and general objectives of this loan.
It resulted in this loan being limited in scope to financing specific technical assistance activities.
Despite the change noted above, we believe that it was appropriate to have maintained the project
since the objectives in the different project components were highly valuable, improving the
capital markets and financial sector in Argentina. In addition, it should be acknowledged that
- 19 -



without this loan, it is unlikely that the various and important contributions that have resulted for
each of the involved financial sectors would have materialized. These contributions include
equipment, training, new draft laws, regulations, strategic planning, analysis of coordination
between financial sector regulators and technical reports.
Given the preceding comments, we believe that a correct evaluation of the Project should be
based upon the revised objectives and, consequently, the results obtained.
There was perhaps an excessive rigidity in the specificity of the descriptions of certain project
components, and greater flexibility would have been desirable in order to adapt to changes in
priorities or problems; this rigidity required the Borrower to address these changes in other ways.
It is evident that the successive changes in the officials responsible for the project in the
Implementing Agencies, as well as in the National Project Direction, created discontinuities in the
implementation of the loan. But personnel changes should be expected in the future when
planning for long-term projects in developing countries.
In spite of the above observations, we believe that these difficulties did not affect the
accomplishment of defined results under the loan, only translating into a need for an extended
time period to conclude certain project components.
The Borrower believes that it has obtained, in a satisfactory manner, the essential objectives of the
Project, and that these constitute a decisive contribution toward the improvement of the capital,
financial, insurance and pension fund markets in Argentina.
Finally, the assistance of Bank staff has been very significant and highly favorable in achieving
these results, encompassing both a collaborative attitude and timely assistance throughout the
project.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
Preparation of this Core ICR was begun during a Bank mission that took place in early August
1999. Also, it is based on material in the project files and on perspectives gained by the Region
during its continued involvement in the financial reform that has been carried out in Argentina
during the nineties. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by commenting on
the draft ICR and by preparing its own evaluation of the Project's execution, a summary of which
has been reproduced (unedited) in Section 9.
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Not applicable.
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
2.A   Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage
Project Cost by Component            Appraisal    Actual/Latest      of
Estimate    Appraisal
Original Components
1. Development of the Securities Market            4.55          2.71      59.6%
2. Implementation of the New Pension Funds         3.80          2.69      70.8%
System
3. Training Program for Long-term Financial        1.50          0.00       0.0%
Intermediation
4. Support to the Project Coordinating Unit        0.35           0.91    260.0%
Added Components during Implementation
5. Improved Insurance regulation and Supervision    n.a.          1.06
6. Strengthened Credit Reporting Systems            n.a.         0.00
7. Strengthened Accessibility to Private Credit by  n.a.         0.00
Simall and Medium-size Enterprises
Total Project Costs                 10.20           7.37
Total World Bank Financing               8.50           6.96
2.B   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category           Appraisal   Actual/Latest
Estimate    Estimate
1. Consultant Services and Training: of which  7.48      5.58
Individual consultants                                   1.44
Firms                                                   3.58
Training                                                0.29
UNDP fees                                               0.19
Travel                                                  0.09
2. Equipment and Materials                  2.32          1.58
3. Miscellaneous                            0.00         0.21
10.20         7.37
Figures include all types of procurement methods. There are no disaggregated figures for this project.
-22 -



2.C   Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
_Actual/Latest Percentage of
Appraisal      Estimate     Appraisal
Component               Bank   Gov.  Bank  Gov.  Bank  Gov.
Original Components
1. Development of the Securities Market  3.25    1.30   2.63   0.08    80.9   6.1
2. Implementation of the New Pension  3.40   0.40    2.47   0.22    72.7  55.0
Funds System                                               .
3. Training Program for Long-term     1.50   0.00    0.00   0.00     0.0   0.0
Financial Intermediation
4. Support to the Project Coordinating  0.35    0.00    0.84   0.07   240.0   n.a.
Unit
Added Components during
Implementation
5. Improved Insurance Regulation and   n.a.    n.a.   1.03   0.04
Supervision
6. Strengthened Credit Reporting Systems    n.a.    n.a.   0.00   0.00
7. Strengthened Accessibility to Private  n.a.   n.a.   0.00   0.00
Credit by Small and Medium-size
Enterprises____
Total Proiect Costs          8.50    1.70   6.96   0.40    81.9  23.5
- 23 -



Annex 3: Economics Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
-24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
[Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
8/1993                  1   1 TM
Appraisal/Negotiation
9/1993                  2    1 TM & 1 Consultant
12/1993                 5   1 TM, 1 Economist, 1 Lawyer, 1
Disbursement Officer, 1 Capital
Market Analyst
Supervision
June 1996               2    1 Sr.Financial Market               U                 S
Specialist & I Economist
Nov. 1996               1   1 Economist - Task Manager           U                 S
March 1997              1   1 Economist - Task Manager           S                 S
Dec. 1997               1   1 Economist - Task Manager           S                 S
May 1998                1   1 Economist - Task Manager           S                 S
Jan. 1999               1   1 Economist - Task Manager           S                 S
ICR
Aug 1999                1   1 Consultant
Aug 1999                1   1 Economist - Task Manager
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
___  .   ...No. Staff weeks          MS (l00)
Identification/Preparation                7.8                        21.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                     19                         46.2
Supervision                              80.4                       165.3
ICR                                      5.13                        11.3
Total                                  112.33                       244.5
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
.N Macro policies                          OH  OSUOM  ON  *NA
Sector Policies                          O H  OSU*M  ON  ONA
O Physical                                 O H  OSUOM  ON  *NA
I Financial                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
2 Institutional Development                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
j Environmental
Social
S Poverty Reduction                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OGender                             C H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
OOther (Please specify)              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
 Private sector development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                 C H  O SU@ M  0 N  0 NA
0 Other (Please specifj)                   0 H  0 SU O M  C N  * NA
- 26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformace                                  Rating
1 Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
Z Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  CHU
N Overall                                           OHS OS  OU  C HU
6.2 Borrower performace                             Rating
Z Preparation                                       OHS * S  O U  O HU
X Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  0 U  O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS  0 U  O HU
Rating of Implementation Agency Performance                 Mixed
- CNV            S
- SSS/SAFJP      HS
- BICE           U
- PCU            S
- SBS            S
- SSN           U
-2C        ~U
- SEPYME        U
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Not applicable.
-28 -



