Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3710 AR
Loan Agreement
(Capital Market Development Technical Assistance Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 21, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3710 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 21, 1994, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as 
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under 
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be 
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the  Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BICE" means 
Banco de Inversión y Comercio Exterior, the 
Borrower's Investment and Foreign Trade Bank;
(b)
"BICE Arrangement" means the contractual arrangement 
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(c)
"CNV" means Comisión Nacional de Valores, the Borrower's 
Securities Commission;
(d)
"Credit Regulations" means the regulations to be issued 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (b)(ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)
"Executing Entities" means CNV, SSS, BICE and PCU;
(f)
"PCU" means the unit referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement;
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(h)
"SSS" means the Borrower's Secretariat of Social Security.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various 
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of 
eight million and five hundred thousand dollars ($8,500,000), being the 
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal 
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open 
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
Page  3
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal 
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at 
the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the 
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on 
the date immediately preceding each date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the 
Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
     (ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings 
of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding 
such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and 
(B) loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 
1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise than 
as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
    (iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second 
six months of a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six 
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this 
Section shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost 
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such 
Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each 
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of 
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period 
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a 
calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B and D of the Project through 
CNV, SSS and PCU, respectively, and shall cause BICE to carry out Part C 
of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices and, 
Page  4
with respect to Part C.1 of the Project, also in accordance with the 
Credit Regulations, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts A, B and D of the Project and shall cause Part C of 
the Project to be carried out in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall maintain in its Ministry of Economy and 
Public Works and Services a unit (the PCU) with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia:
(i)
the carrying out of Part D of the Project and the 
coordination of the execution of the other parts of 
the Project;
     (ii)
the approval of the procurement of goods and the 
selection of, and the approval of the terms of 
reference for, the consultants proposed by the other 
Executing Entities; and
    (iii)
preparation of the Project's progress reports to be 
submitted to the Bank.
(d)
The Borrower shall ensure that PCU is, at least during the 
execution of the Project, headed by a Secretary or an Under-Secretary of 
the Borrower's Ministry of Economy and Public Works and Services, 
assisted by a full-time coordinator with qualifications, experience and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and by qualified staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall enter into a contractual 
arrangement with BICE, which shall first have been approved by the Bank 
(the BICE Arrangement), whereby: (i) the Borrower shall undertake to 
relend to BICE, under the same financial terms of the Loan, the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated to Part C of the Project; and (ii) BICE shall 
undertake to comply with its financial obligations under the BICE 
Arrangement, and to carry out Part C of the Project and maintain records 
and accounts, all as provided in this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the BICE Arrangement in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Loan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or fail to enforce the BICE Arrangement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, 
starting on a date not later than six months after the Effective Date, 
semi-annual reports and monthly summary reports on the progress of the 
Project, such reports to be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
may reasonably request.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, through the Executing 
Entities, undertake, in the month of September of 1995, a review with the 
Bank of the progress in the execution of the Project and in the 
attainment of the Project objectives and, with respect to those 
components of the Project that have been completed four months prior to 
the date of said review, an evaluation of their impact.
ARTICLE IV
Page  5
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project of the Executing Entities.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
     (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than four months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and
    (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as 
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
     (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
    (iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such 
records; and
     (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that 
BICE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the BICE 
Arrangement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the 
event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Page  6
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that all action 
has been taken by the Borrower in order to permit that the procurement of 
goods and consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan be undertaken in accordance with the provisions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, 
that the action referred to in Section 6.01 of this Agreement has been 
taken and no other action on behalf of the Borrower is required for the 
procurement of goods and consultants' services in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.03. The date February 21, 1995 is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services 
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Obras y
  Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121952 AR
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ A. Humberto Petrei
Authorized Representative
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants'
 7,480,000
100%
services
(2)
Goods
       1,020,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
TOTAL
8,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to 
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate 
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $850,000, may be made on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after November 1, 
1993; and (b) under Part C.1 of the Project: (i) unless the BICE 
Arrangement has been entered into between the parties thereto; (ii) 
unless regulations (the Credit Regulations), satisfactory to the Bank, 
governing the functioning of the credit facility under Part C.1 of the 
Project have been issued by BICE; and (iii) in an aggregate amount 
exceeding the equivalent of $1,100,000.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under 
contracts for goods not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each contract and 
under contracts for consultant's services under Part C.1 of the Project 
not subject to the Bank's prior review pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 
II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) CNV's institutional 
strengthening and the reinforcement of the Borrower's securities market 
Page  8
regulations; (b) the development of independent pension funds and the 
establishment of the supervisory agency for such funds; and (c) the 
improvement of the capabilities of middle and senior level staff of 
financial institutions in Argentina in the area of term financing for 
investment projects.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Securities Markets
1.
Strengthening of CNV's organization and management through: (i) 
evaluation of its current capabilities and design of a restructuring 
program for CNV; (ii) implementation of such restructuring program; (iii) 
development and implementation of a training program for CNV's 
professional staff; (iv) preparation of the first twelve-month business 
plan for CNV; and (v) installation of a computerized management 
information system for the new organizational structure of CNV.
2.
Upgrading of the Borrower's securities market regulations through: 
(i) evaluation of current securities market trends and new regulatory 
requirements and preparation of a proposal for capital adequacy rules for 
securities market intermediaries in accordance with their risk profiles; 
(ii) design and implementation of supervisory systems to ensure 
compliance with such capital adequacy rules, including record-keeping 
specifications for such securities market intermediaries, and design and 
implementation of CNV's systems for monitoring such intermediaries' 
financial position; (iii) a study with recommendations to streamline and 
improve coordination among the different regulatory agencies supervising 
financial conglomerates, including specific proposals for arrangements 
among CNV, the Borrower's Central Bank and the Borrower's Superintendency 
of Insurance; and (iv) installation of a computer system in CNV to enable 
it to be permanently informed on the securities market behavior.
Part B:
Pension Funds
1.
Preparation of regulations required for the implementation of the 
Borrower's Law No. 24241.
2.
Assistance in the initial operation of the superintendency of 
pension funds, including preparation of its bylaws, development of its 
organizational structure with an action plan for its implementation and 
detailed job description for all positions, determination of staff 
training and information systems needs, and management support during its 
initial phase of operation.
3.
Consolidation of the regulations of the Borrower's social security 
system existing prior to the date of effectiveness of the Borrower's Law 
No. 24241, which continue to be in force and effect.
Part C:
Training Program
1.
Establishment and operation of a second-tier credit facility within 
BICE to finance a training program to be carried out by private training 
institutions in Argentina for the benefit of middle and high level staff 
of financing institutions in Argentina in: (i) project financing, with 
emphasis on non-recourse financing; (ii) medium and long-term bank 
funding, including bond financing, BICE's two-tier lines of credit and 
the backstop facility administered by BICE; (iii) securities markets in 
Argentina and abroad; (iv) long-term bank planning, with emphasis on 
asset and liability management and control procedures; (v) basic subjects 
necessary to bring the participants of the training program to the 
appropriate levels required therefor; and (vi) other related areas 
acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Training of middle and senior level staff from the Borrower's 
financial sector regulatory agencies and other entitites related to 
capital market matters under the training program referred to in Part C.1 
above.
3.
Development of training course modules for long-term financing 
Page  9
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
PCU
Strengthening of PCU's administrative capacity.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of 
Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in 
dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1999
through   March 1, 2009
425,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents 
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General 
Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium 
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid 
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment 
below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) applicable 
to 
the Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
Page  10
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set 
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to 
in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract 
award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful 
bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two 
predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied 
to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, 
the Borrower shall use or cause to be used the relevant standard bidding 
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank 
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where 
no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the 
Borrower shall use or cause to be used bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures 
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Argentina may be 
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Computer equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more per contract may be procured under contracts awarded through limited 
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and 
comparison of bids invited from a list satisfactory to the Bank of 
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with 
the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines 
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $120,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final 
Page  11
contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where 
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies 
of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the 
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding 
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to 
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the 
other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not 
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Borrower and BICE in the carrying out of the 
Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the 
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based 
assignments, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed such 
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as 
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use or cause 
to be used other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or 
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of 
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply 
to contracts, under Part C.1 of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review 
shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the 
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to 
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank or 
to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 
equivalent or above.
3.
In addition to the requirements of the Consultant Guidelines, no 
expenditures for training services shall be eligible for financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan unless the application of the first-tier bank to 
BICE for financing of such services through the second-tier credit 
facility established under Part C.1 of the Project shall first have been 
approved by the Bank.
4.
To the extent possible, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be 
employed consultant firms in preference to individual consultants for the 
provision of consultant services for the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Page  12
Part of the
Start not
Completion not
  Project  
later than
later than   
Part A.1 (i)
June 30, 1994
December 31, 1994
Part A.1 (ii)
June 30, 1995
June 30, 1996
Part A.1 (iii):
(a)
evaluation of
CNV's in-house
and external
training re-
quirements;
June 30, 1995 September 30, 1995
(b)
preparation of
various course
modules cover-
ing priority
areas, identi-
fication of
course providers,
and actual offer-
ing of the courses
to selected staff
December 31, 1995
September 30, 1997
members; and
(c)
on-the-job
training in
December 31, 1995
September 30, 1996
priority areas
Part A.1 (iv)
December 31, 1995
December 31, 1996
Part A.1 (v)
December 31, 1993
June 30, 1996
Part A.2 (i)
June 30, 1994
December 31, 1994
Part A.2 (ii)
March 31, 1995
December 31, 1995
Part A.2 (iii)
September 30, 1995
December 31, 1995
Part A.2 (iv)
December 31, 1993
June 30, 1996
Part B.1
June 30, 1994 December 31, 1995
Part B.2
June 30, 1994 December 31, 1995
Part B.3
December 31, 1994
December 31, 1995
Part C
June 30, 1994
December 31, 1997
Part D
June 30, 1994
December 31, 1997
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  13
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to $700,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
     (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
Page  14
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
