Page  1
October 22, 1996
Mr. Roque Fernandez
Ministro de Economia y Obras
   y Servicios Publicos
Ministerio de Economia y Obras
   y Servicios Publicos
Hiplito Yrigoyen 250
(1310) Buenos Aires, Argentina
               Re:  Loan No. 3710-AR (Capital Market Development
               Technical Assistance Project) Amendment to the Loan
               Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the Borrower), dated November 
21, 1994 (the Loan Agreement), entered into with respect to the above-captioned 
Project.  We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your request and our recent 
discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended by:
 
(a)
deleting paragraphs (a), (b) and (d);
 
(b)
relettering paragraph (c) to become new paragraph (a);
 
(c)
relettering paragraph (e) to become new paragraph (b) and replacing the 
term "BICE" therein with the term "SBS";
(d)
relettering paragraph (f) to become new paragraph (c);
 
(e)
introducing a new paragraph (d), immediately after new paragraph (c), to 
read as follows in its entirety: ""SBS" means the Borrower's Subsecretariat of Banks 
and Insurance;";
(f)
relettering paragraph (g) to become new paragraph (e); and
 
(g)
relettering paragraph (h) to become new paragraph (f).
 
2.
Section 3.01 (a) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety: "The 
Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, C and D of 
the Project through CNV, SSS, SBS and PCU, respectively, all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.".
3.
Section 3.01 (b) is hereby amended by deleting the words "Parts A, B and D of" 
and by deleting the words "and shall cause Part C of the Project to be carried out".
4.
Section 3.03 is hereby deleted. 
 
5.
Sections 3.04 and 3.05 are hereby renumbered to become new Sections 3.03 and 
3.04, respectively.
6.
Article V is hereby deleted.
 
7.
Article VI is hereby renumbered to become new Article V, and its Sections 6.01, 
6.02 and 6.03 are hereby renumbered to become new Sections  5.01, 5.02 and 5.03, 
respectively.
8.
Article VII is hereby renumbered to become new Article VI, and its Sections 7.01 
and 7.02 are hereby renumbered to become new Sections 6.01 and 6.02, respectively.
9.
Schedule 1, paragraph 1 is hereby amended by replacing the figure "7,480,000" in 
Page  2
the table therein with the figure "6,880,000", as well as by replacing the figure 
"1,020,000" in the table therein with the figure "1,620,000".
10.
Schedule 1, paragraph 3 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
"Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $850,000, may be made on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after November 1, 
1993.".
11.
Schedule 1, paragraph 4 is hereby amended by deleting the words "under Part C.1 
of the Project".
12.
The first paragraph of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety: "The objectives of the Project are: (a) CNV's institutional strengthening 
and the reinforcement of the
Borrower's securities market regulations; (b) the development of independent pension 
funds and the establishment of the supervisory agency for such funds; (c) the 
development of prudential norms and
strengthened supervision for the insurance industry; and (d) the strengthening of the 
legal and regulatory framework for credit reporting systems.".
13.
Schedule 2, Part B is hereby amended by inserting a new paragraph 4 at the end 
thereof to read as follows in its entirety: "Installation of computer equipment in SSS 
to assist in monitoring operation of public and private pension funds.".
14.
Schedule 2, Part C is hereby amended to be entitled "Insurance Industry; Credit 
Reporting Systems" and to read as follows in its entirety:
"1.
Provision of technical assistance to:  (a) review the existing 
legislative and regulatory framework for the insurance industry and prepare 
draft amendments thereto as needed to promote the financial integrity of the 
industry and improve the Borrower's insurance industry regulatory role; and 
(b) evaluate the institutional capacity of the Borrower's Superintendency of 
Insurance and develop and implement a program to strengthen said capacity.
"2.
Provision of technical assistance to: (a) review the existing 
legislative and regulatory framework for credit reporting systems and prepare 
draft amendments thereto as needed to improve said framework; (b) undertake a 
comparative analysis of credit reporting systems in Argentina and other 
countries; and (c) evaluate privacy issues with regard to credit reporting, as 
well 
as how such issues are treated internationally.".
15.
Schedule 4, Section II, paragraph 1 is hereby amended by deleting the words "and 
BICE".
16.
Schedule 4, Section II, paragraph 2 is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  "Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of 
budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, 
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each and contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $25,000 
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) 
the terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above; and (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $25,000 equivalent or above.".
17.
Schedule 4, Section II, paragraph 3 is hereby deleted. 
 
18.
Schedule 4, Section II, paragraph 4 is hereby renumbered to become new paragraph 
3.
19.
Schedule 5 is hereby amended by replacing the "June 30, 1994" starting date for 
Part C of the Project with the date "November 1, 1996".
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in 
Page  3
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this amendment letter 
will become effective upon receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this 
amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
    AND DEVELOPMENT
Gobind T. Nankani
Director
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Roque B. Fernandez
Ministro de Economia y Obras y Servicios Publicos
Date: _______________________
