Page  1
March 31, 1998 
Mr. Roque Fernández 
Ministro de Economía y Obras
   y Servicios Públicos 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
1086 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan No. 3710-AR (Capital Market Development Technical
Assistance Project) Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) dated November 
21, 1994 (the Loan Agreement), as previously amended. We are pleased to inform you 
that, pursuant to your request and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank 
agrees to amend the Loan Agreement further as follows:
1.
Section 1.02 (b) is hereby amended by inserting the word ", SEPYME" immediately 
before the words "and PCU".
2.
Section 1.02 (e) is hereby amended by deleting the word "and" at the end 
thereof.
3.
Section 1.02 (f) is hereby amended by replacing the period at the end thereof 
with the word "; and".
4.
A new Section 1.02 (g) is hereby added immediately after Section 1.02 (f), to 
read as follows in its entirety:  " "SEPYME" means the Borrower’s Secretaría de la 
Pequeña y Mediana Empresa (Secretariat of Small- and Medium-Size Enterprise).".
5.
Section 2.03 is hereby amended by replacing the date "June 30, 1998" with the 
date "June 30, 1999".
6.
Section 3.01 (a) is hereby amended by replacing the words "Parts A, B, C and D 
of the Project through CNV, SSS, SBS and PCU, respectively" with the words "Parts A, 
B, C, D and E of the Project through CNV, SSS, SBS, PCU and SEPYME, respectively".
7.
The first paragraph of Schedule 2 is hereby amended by:  (a) deleting the word 
"and" immediately before part (d) thereof; and (b) replacing the period at the end 
thereof with the words "; and (e) the strengthening of the Borrower’s legal and 
institutional framework in support of the accessibility by small- and medium-sized 
enterprises in Argentina to credit from the private sector.".
8.
Schedule 2, Part A.1 is hereby amended by deliberately leaving subpart (iv) 
thereof blank.
9.
Schedule 2, Part A.2 is hereby amended by:  (a) deleting the word "and" 
immediately before subpart (iv) thereof; and (b) replacing the period at the end 
thereof with the words "; and (v) provision of technical assistance to the Borrower in 
support of increased regional integration of securities markets with its Mercosur 
partners.".
10.
A new Part E, entitled "Small- and Medium-sized Enterprises," is hereby added 
immediately after Part D of Schedule 2, to read as follows in its entirety:  
"Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower, in order to strengthen its legal 
and institutional framework in support of the accessibility by small- and medium-sized 
enterprises in Argentina to credit from the private sector.".
11.
The last sentence of Schedule 2 is hereby amended by replacing the date 
"December 31, 1997" with the date "April 30, 1999". 
12.
Schedule 5 is hereby amended by:  (a) deleting the entry pertaining to Part A.1 
(iv)of the Project; and (b) by adding two new entries at the end thereof, one for Part 
Page  2
A.2 (v) of the Project to read "Start not later than July 15,1998 and Completion not 
later than December 31,1998" and the other for Part E of the Project to read "Start 
not later than May 1,1998 and Completion not later than April 30,1999".
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this amendment letter 
will become effective as of the date first above written upon receipt by the Bank of 
one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
Myrna L. Alexander
Director
Country Management Unit
  for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Roque Fernández
Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services
