Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20458-KG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.7 MILLION (US$22.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
FOR A
KYRGYZ URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
July 26, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Som
1 Som = US$ 0.0213
US$ 1 = 47 Som
FISCAL YEAR
2000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DCCC          Department of City Capital Construction
DHPUS         Department of Housing and Public Utilities Services
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
ERRs          Economic rates of return
HDM-3         Highway Design and Maintenance Model
IDA           International Development Association
MoTC          Ministry of Transport and Communications
NPVs          Net present values
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PTAs          Passenger Transport Agencies
RF            National Road Fund
RMD           Roads Management Department
TCC           Transport Coordination Committee (TCC)
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Country Director:  Kiyoshi Kodera, ECCO8
Sector Director/Manager:  Ricardo A. Halperin / Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Program Team Leader/TaskTeain Leader:   Richard C. Podolske / Kavita Sethi, ECSIN



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
KYRGYZ URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    11
3. Benefits and target population                                                   12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                         15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         17
2. Financial                                                                        17
3. Technical                                                                        18
4. Institutional                                                                    18
5. Environmental                                                                    20
6. Social                                                                           21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               23
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   23
2. Critical risks                                                                   23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   25



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         25
2. Other                                                                           25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       29
Annex 2: Project Description                                                          32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      34
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                35
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                            37
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    38
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  49
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                50
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               51
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         53
Annex 11: Statistical Tables                                                          55
Annex 12: Urban Passenger Transport Action Plan                                       64
MAP(S)
IBRD 30895



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Kyrgyz Urban Transport Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIN
Date: July 26, 2000                              Team Leader: Richard C. Podolske
Country Manager/Director: Kiyoshi Kodera         Sector Manager/Director: Ricardo A. Halperin
Project ID: P050719                              Sector(s): TU - Urban Transport
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
i Loan         1 Credit       El Grant        El Guarantee   O Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (USSm): 22
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                             Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                 Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Pan:     Source                                  Local        Foreign        Toul
GOVERNMvIENT                                                  0.00          0.00          0.00
IDA                                                           4.33         17.67         22.00
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT OF BORROWING COUNTRY                       2.22          0.00          2.22
Total:                                                        6.55         17.67         24.22
Borrower: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS
Contact Person: J. Satybaldiev, Minister of Transportation and Communications
Tel:                 Fax:                 Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Project Implementation Unit (PII)
Contact Person: Anatoly Kan, Head, Project hnplementation Unit
Tel: 996-312-21 37 25            Fax: 996-312-6642 81               Email: urbanpiu@infotel.kg
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M:
FY          2001        2002        2003        20
Annual     4.7          8.5          8.7        0.1
Cumulative     4.7         13.2        21.9       22.0
Project Implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/15/2000  Expected closing date:  05/31/2004



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The ultimate objective is to provide sustainable, reliable, and affordable access to mobility for the
populations of the cities of Bishkek, Osh, and Jalalabad. The project will initiate actions in this direction by
(i) restoring selected urban roads to acceptable service standards, (ii) taking the first steps to develop a
reliable source of financing for urban roads maintenance and rehabilitation.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
*   Reduction of vehicle operating costs for all vehicles
* Increased expenditures for urban road maintenance and rehabilitation
* Inproved quality and efficiency of expenditures for urban road maintenance and rehabilitation
*   Staff trained in maintenance and use of Road Management Systems
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 17641-KG         Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/07/98
The strategic objectives of the Bank's assistance in the Kyrgyz Republic are to attain sustained growth, to
reduce poverty, to improve governance and to strengthen public finances. The Bank's first priority is to help
attain sustained growth through removal of policy and regulatory impediments to private sector activity.
The second priority is to assist in reducing poverty through specific investments in basic social services,
including health, rural water supply, and public transportation, improvements to the social protection
system, and support for rural infrastructure projects. Support for government wide procurement, audit and
budget reforms, deregulation and enhancement of the competitive environment, along with strengthened
public finances, are expected to contribute to both the growth and poverty reduction objectives. The Bank
strategy also envisages assistance for increasing revenues and improving efficiency in expenditure
management to reduce dependency on external budget support operations.
This project is fully consistent with the Bank's overall strategy and will focus on the priorities listed above,
in particular: (i) it supports the objective of sustained economic growth by promoting privatization of urban
road works construction activity and through assisting in the opening up of multi-operator provision of
public transport, (ii) it supports the objective of irnproving conditions for the urban poor (constituting
about 50% of the population in the project cities) by investments in the now badly deteriorated urban road
networks which will reduce the cost of urban mobility and consequently facilitate access to employment
and basic services, and (iii) it supports the CAS objective of strengthening public finances by piloting
municipal finance reforms, focusing first on the urban roads sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Kyrgyz Government's development strategies are in line with the Bank's assistance strategy as outlined
above, and provide a relevant framework to address the main urban transport sector issues which are
described below.
Deterioration of Urban Road Infrastructure. The condition of urban roads in the proposed project cities is
very poor, due largely to lack of investments in maintenance and rehabilitation because of insufficient
funds, at the national and city level. This situation has markedly deteriorated since the collapse of the
Soviet Union. Street surfaces tend to be heavily cracked and uneven, coupled with inadequate repair of the
-2 -



many potholes which develop as a result of the frequent freeze/thaw cycles. Bishkek, the capital, has the
largest road network of 730 km, of which nearly 900/O are paved. Osh and Jalal-Abad have road networks
of 320 and 330 km respectively, with 80% and 70% paved surfaces. With an estimated population of 1
million, Bishkek dominates Osh and Jalal-Abad which house approximately 450,000 and 100,000 people
respectively. Each city is responsible for the maintenance and management of its road system, and
Jalal-Abad is also responsible for several km of streets in neighboring municipalities, which could account
for the high street length per capita.
The lack of routine maintenance and deteriorating drainage conditions have resulted in serious worsening of
road surface and pavement conditions. Many roads now need or will soon need rehabilitation or even
complete reconstruction. Inclusion of substantial amounts of routine maintenance is needed in an effort to
catch up on the lack of crack filling and pothole repairs. Deterioration has been particularly severe in
Bishkek, which has much higher traffic volumes than Osh or Jalal-Abad, typically in excess of 20,000
vehicles per day (vpd) on the arterials as compared with volumes in the other two cities in the order of
5,000 vpd or less. Most streets are in 'poor' to 'bad' condition.
Institutions and Governance Relationships. Responsibility for the maintenance and mnanagement of urban
roads rests with road departments within the municipal corporations of the cities. All three project city
administrations have evolved from the pre-independence style where implementation responsibilities of each
city functional division were fulfilled under a "contract' with "Meenet", a city agency which provided most
works and services. All cities have begun a transformation towards a more transparent "client-contractor"
relationship, and towards increasing the competition for the provision of works and services. The progress
of each city varies somewhat and today urban roads are managed as follows.
Bishkek. Until early 1999, municipal road construction and maintenance were primarily the responsibility
of Meenet, a city agency of some 20 organizations, with responsibilities in addition to roads for building
repairs, public heating, water supply, sewage and sanitation, and street lighting among others. In March
1999, the Departnent of Urban Roads Parking Lots and Garages, more commonly known as the Roads
Department, was carved out of the Bishkek Meenet by combining the Road Construction Unit, the Road
Repair and Construction Unit, and four district maintenance units, with a total staff of 466. This new
department has a mandate to be functionally and financially independent. Other entities involved in
roadworks include the Department of City Capital Construction (DCCC), which supervises contracts for
all capital construction, including new or reconstructed roads. There are also at least five joint stock
companies registered with the municipality and potentially eligible to compete for road maintenance and
rehabilitation works.
More reform is necessary to increase efficiency within the sector. While the new narrower focus of the
Roads (Construction) Department is appropriate, additional steps are required to separate the planning,
budgeting and administrative functions from road construction which should be handled by the private
sector. As of January 2000 a new Roads Management Department (RMD) was established within the
DCCC, and staffed by four staff members charged with the responsibility of planning, budgeting, and
managing roads within the municipality. In order to complete the separation of the management and
implementation functions, the municipality needs to complete the divestiture of the Roads (Construction)
Departrnent by severing it from municipal control and financial support. While routine maintenance might
be retained in-house, steps should be taken to sell off major pieces of construction equipment required only
for capital construction projects. Bishkek should also divest its asphalt and concrete plants currently under
its direct administration.
-3-



Osh. Similar to the developments in Bishkek, the responsibility for road maintenance and rehabilitation
rested within the Department of Roads and Public Utilities in Osh. The Osh Department of Roads and
Public Utilities (DRPU) has a staff of 419 and controls two asphalt plants and three laboratories owned by
the municipality. The laboratories are under-equipped and have only basic testing equipment. A new Roads
Management Department (RMD) was established in January 2000. The RMDs mandate is road works
planning, budgeting, and management of maintenance and rehabilitation to be completed through
competitive tendering. The RMD is also responsible for contract supervision, All construction and
maintenance capabilities and equipment need to be divested from the municipal organization, so the RMD
can focus on the road program management. A lot of effort has already been directed toward this end, but
additional steps are necessary to ensure a transparent competitive environment. At least six local
contractors (oint stock companies) have demonstrated local maintenance and construction interest and
capabilities. For bigger contracts there is competition from companies in neighboring Uzbekistan.
Jalalabad. Experience in Jalalabad mirrored Osh, although somewhat behind it. Until the establishment of
the RMD in January 2000 (with the same mandate as Osh), road management and maintenance functions
were the responsibility of the Department of Housing and Public Utilities Services (DHPUS), with a staff
of 193. The city does not have any operational quality control laboratories. Jalalabad has two joint stock
construction companies; however, due to the city's slow payment capacity and the small size of the tendered
contracts, both companies are reluctant to enter into any more contracts with the city.
Although both Osh and Jalalabad have de facto separated roadwork planning and programming from
execution of works, contracting practices are in need of improvement. To complete the transition to a
commercial market environment the separation, corporatization, and privatization of the cities' maintenance
and construction resources need to be completed.
Urban Roads Finance. Urban roads lack a reliable source of financing. The central government is no longer
able to provide the subsidies of the past, and alternate sources of funding have not been secured. The main
channels available for funding road rehabilitation and maintenance include municipal budgets and a
National Road Fund (directed primarily towards inter-city road networks). These sources have been
consistently inadequate for even a basic level of routine maintenance.
Municipal Firnances. The financing situation has been aggravated by a weak institutional framework. The
powers and responsibilities devolved to the municipal level have not been accompanied by commensurate
revenues and taxing authority. Municipalities have constrained taxing authority. At the same time it
appears that tax collection is a problem and total revenues could potentially be enhanced through
improvements in collection practices. The bulk of municipal funds are targeted transfers from the central
government to pay for school and health worker salaries. Municipalities are also allocated a share of the
income tax, but collections in excess of annual targets are, in practice, extracted by the Oblast regional
goverrnents. Total transfers make up 60% of Bishkek's budget and 70-75% of the Osh and Jalalabad
budgets.
-4 -



Municipal Budget Summary, 1998-2000
Total revenues     Road          Road          Road          Road
(million soms)  Expenditures  expenditures  expenditures  expenditures
(net of National  /capita, soms  1km,        /km, US $
Road Fund                      soms        (S0soms/$)
transfers)
(million soms)
Bishkek  1998      536.5          4.7             4           7230.8         144.6
1999      602.8          13.6           12           20923          418.5
2000      677.7           31            28           47692          953.8
Osh      1998      79.0           0.6            1.7          2352.9         47.1
1999       92.6           0.8            2            3216          64.3
2000       89.3           na             na            na            na
Jalalabad 1998     33.2           0.7            5.8          3043           60.9
1999      37.7           0.5            4            2174           43.5
2000      42.6            na            na            na             na
* Bishkek has Oblast-level status and associated revenue/expenditure responsibilities.
Source: March 2000 mission findings.
The primary locally-raised source of funds is a 2% sales tax, which in 1998 generated approximately
$500,000 in Osh, $120,000 in Jalalabad, and $2.3 million in Bishkek. This rate cannot be altered at the
local level. The only significant source of budgetary flexibility currently available to a municipality is
non-payment of utility bills for heating, electricity and water provision. All three target cities have
accumulated large arrears. Furthermore, all three have resorted to ad hoc lotteries, bazaars and festivals to
raise cash for road maintenance.
The impacts of inadequate finances on urban road expenditures have been severe. In Bishkek, from 1995 to
1997, only 55-60% of planned urgent maintenance was actually carried out. Routine maintenance activities
such as crack filling, road marking and maintenance of ditches and drainage were not carried out at all.
From the 1994 budget year actual road expenditures in Bishkek fell from 35% of plan to 30% in 1995 to
only 3% in 1996. Annual rehabilitation needs of the Bishkek road network are estimated to be 45km (based
on a 15-20 year road life cycle), but only 4km in 1995 and 1.3km in 1996 were resurfaced. The situation
has been equally bad in Osh and Jalalabad.
More recently, Bishkek spent a little over 2% of its 1999 budget on road works, while Osh and Jalalabad
spent approximately 1% in the same year. On a per capita basis, Bishkek spent about 12 soms ($0.24), and
Osh and Jalalabad 2 soms ($ 0.04) and 4 soms ($ 0.08) respectively. These figures are extremely low by
any comparable international standards. While expenditures for cities around the world vary considerably,
it is not unreasonable for expenditures on municipal road systems to account for at least 10% of the total
city budget. Moreover, it would be reasonable even for a low income country to allocate about 50,000 soms
or $1,000 per kilometer as a low target budget for urban road maintenance. Using these rough indicators, it
would appear that Bishkek might allocate three times the amount of money allocated in 1999 to road
maintenance, while Osh and Jalalabad would need to allocate even more.
- 5 -



National Road Fund. A National Road Fund (RF) was established in June of 1998 with a mandate to
address road design, maintenance, repair, rehabilitation, and construction. The primary purpose of the RF
was to support the maintenance and rehabilitation of the deteriorated inter-urban roads network. In 1996,
expenditures on the inter-urban roads sector, funded by allocations from the State budget, were only 76
million soms, in contrast to the estimated road development and maintenance needs of about 1,080 million
soms per year. The RF was created under the Asian Development Bank initiated institutional and financial
reforms in this sector. These in turn were part of an ADB project to rehabilitate the Bishkek-Osh road
connecting the country's two major centers of economic activity and population. The National Road Fund
legislation explicitly permits up to 10 % of the Fund proceeds to be allocated for urban roads. The fimd is
administered by the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MoTC).
Road Fund Revenues. The Road Fund draws its revenues from tolls, charges on fuel and lubricants,
international transit fees, vehicle license fees, a turnover tax, and budget allocations. The 1999 Road Fund
budget was approximately 380 million Som ($9 million). This is a very small sum considering the scale of
the rural and urban network in Kyrgystan and the extreme climatic and topographic conditions under which
the road network must be maintained. (The estimate for the 2000 Road Fund budget is 687 million Som).
The majority of the 1999 funds originated from a 145 million Som national budget allocation for the
Bishkek - Osh Road (38% of total Road Fund revenues), and an additional 138 million Som (36% of the
total) came from a 0.8% turnover tax on businesses. By comparison, fuel tax revenues and motor vehicle
fees, which typically constitute a majority or all of road fund revenues in other countries, and which closely
approximate user fees, constitute a comparatively small share (24%) of Road Fund revenues in the Kyrgyz
Republic.
The situation of the Road Fund in the Kyrgyz Republic is similar to that found in other FSU countries. The
turnover tax in these countries has been used to maintain local and municipal roads and can be considered a
road access charge. In the short run, its continuation is justified by the fiscal constraints facing the
govermnent. However, in the future the turnover tax should be replaced by charges more directly aligned to
road use. Substantial increases in the fuel tax and vehicle taxes consistent with international norms are
being considered in the Kyrgyz Republic. These tax increases might collectively double the size of the
Fund. At the same time, the allocation of the turnover tax on businesses to the Road Fund is expected to be
gradually eliminated so the aggregate impact would be to increase the Fund by about 50% over its present
level.
Road Fund Allocations. Road Fund allocations in the Kyrgyz Republic are made by a committee in the
MoTC. This approach is justified by the small size of the fund and the importance of allocating these very
limited resources to areas of highest priority rather than 'dissipating' the funds over the entire country.
Under this approach, during 1999 less than 3% was allocated to the project cities which make the dominant
proportion of the national urban population. In 2000, this allocation is expected to be even less than 2%
(see table below). These allocations, at present, are insufficient to address even the maintenance backlog.
-6 -



National Road Fund Allocations to Project Cities, 1998-2000 (million Soms)
Year      Road           Amount Allocated to    Project      Tot. Road Expenditure Per
Fund             (million Soms)       Cites       Capita: Municipal & National
Disbursed                             Share of    Road Fund Sources (Soms)
(rnillion                             Total
Soms)                                 Road
Fund
Revenues
(0% )
Bishkek   Osh      Jalalabad          Bishkek   Osh       Jalalabad
1998      197      0         0        0         0        4         2         6
1999     374       10        0        0         2.7      21        3         3
2000      687      1.5       5         3.5      1.5       34       14        29
Source: March 2000 mission findings
Road Fund Expenditures. In 1999, only the Bishkek municipality received a Road Fund allocation, and this
was limited to 10 million soms or less than 3% of the total Fund revenues. For 2000, the allocations are
projected at 1.5 million soms for Bishkek, 5 million soms for Osh and 3.5 million soms for Jalalabad.
Given that Bishkek, Osh, and Jalalabad collectively constitute about a third of the national population, and
since motor vehicle ownership and use in these urban areas are higher on a per capita basis than in rural
areas, an increase in the allocation for urban areas until such time as alternative means are found to
increase the capability of urban areas to raise additional revenues from their own sources would be well
justified. The project cities complain that they receive no funds from the RF despite forwarding all
municipal road user tax contributions to the Fund. The share of Road Fund revenues collected from the
project cities increased from 58% in 1998 to 79% in 1999.
Deterioration of Urban Passenger Services. Since the Kyrgyz Republic's independence, the lack of
investment in the fleet of publicly owned transport companies has resulted in severe reductions in their
output. The impact on the Bishkek bus services, run by Autokombinat, the public bus operator, has been
particularly severe. Over a six to seven year period the peak supply of large capacity buses fell from over
600 buses in the early 1990's to about 35 buses in 2000. The effects have been dramatic in the face of a
near doubling of the population of Bishkek over the same time horizon. The collapse in the supply of
publicly-owned bus services has led the municipality to allow the private sector to emerge and serve a
growing segment of the market. Without the presence of the private sector the performance of the Bishkek
transport sector would be wholly unacceptable. Despite similar financial and supply constraints, the
Bishkek Trolleybus company has managed to cope relatively well. This may be attributed to more efficient
and cost-conscious management of the Trolleybus company. The company's output is stable and has even
increased with the addition of 45 trolley buses to its fleet, financed from budgetary allocations, last year.
The situation in Osh and Jalalabad is not significantly different though the scale of operations is much
smaller. The level of service offered by the main, formerly state owned, operators in Osh is totally
inadequate. Ongoing financial difficulties in the operations of the incumbent and associated urban fleet
reductions, have seen a phenomenal growth in operations by both private companies and individual
operators organized in associations. In Jalalabad, the former monopoly state operator now shares the urban
network with the services of a rival association of individual operators.
- 7 -



Institutions and Regulation of Urban Passenger Transport. Following independence, responsibility for
urban bus and trolley bus operations was shifted to the various municipal authorities. In 1997, Bishkek
created the Transport Coordination Committee (TCC) to manage the city's public transport services; in Osh
and Jalalabad this function was fulfilled by the City Transport Departments. The role of the TCC and the
City Transport Departments was mainly to coordinate, control, and regulate the transport network, and in
particular the activities of the private sector operators. The TCC focused on retaining as much control as
possible over the network operations where it viewed the private/individual operators as temporary in
nature until such time as normal service could be resumed by the public operator with investments in large
capacity buses. Though the role of the TCC was regulatory in nature, TCC was closely involved in the
management and day-to-day operations of the monopoly public bus operator, Autokombinat. The
separation between the City Transport Departments and the operators was more comnplete in Osh and
Jalalabad, partly as public operators in Osh were reconstituted as joint stock companies, and completely
privatized in Jalalabad.
To move urban transport provision towards a commercially oriented, competitive approach, a genuinely
independent regulatory body, which ensures a level playing field for all operators in the sector is required.
In 1997, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, with the assistance of the World Bank, started
preparation of an Action Plan to improve the efficiency of existing operations and change the structure of
the regulatory framework in the project cities. The Action Plan was adopted by government decree in
January 2000 and major steps in its implementation have already been completed. Passenger Transport
Agencies (PTAs) with representation from the City government, operators, passengers, the police (GAI),
and academia have been established in all three project cities. These replace the former TCC and City
Transport Departments and are responsible for, inter alia, network planning, fare determination, service
procurement, contract monitoring and enforcement. These new Agencies provide both separation from PT
operations and representation from various stakeholders in the urban passenger transport sector. Further,
the monopoly Autokombinat in Bishkek has been broken into two independent bus companies, and the PTA
has, in March 2000, initiated as a first phase competitive tendering for 10%/0 of all public transport routes.
Urban Passenger Transport Financial Situation. As in most countries of the former Soviet Union, a
substantial percentage of passengers are exempted from paying for services, and an additional substantial
proportion avoid paying, making it difficult for urban passenger service operators to cover their costs and
maintain sustainable services at adequate levels. City budgets can no longer cover the financial shortfalls.
Moreover, these services, which have traditionally been provided by public sector operators, have been
inefficient and service quality, as supported by a social assessment survey, is low. Urban passenger
services have been at least partially privatized in the project cities, mostly privatized in Osh, and
completely privatized in Jalalabad in large part due to the inability of local governments to adequately fund
and maintain publicly provided urban transit operations. The combined effect of the exemptions, leakages
and fare restrictions has been to jeopardize the financial viability of public passenger transport operators,
and the sub-sector as a whole. The situation appears to be worst in Bishkek City where the Central
government has transferred 55 million soms in 1999 to public transport operators, Autokombinat and the
trolley bus company, as an operational subsidy, through the Bishkek City government.
Urban Passenger Transport Action Plan. In response to the above issues in passenger transport, the Kyrgyz
government, in cooperation with the World Bank and the project cities, prepared an Action Plan for urban
transport sector reform. The Action Plan includes a list of actions according to prescribed timetables to be
accomplished by the Central Government and the city administrations of the three cities. The Action Plan
also includes a statement of underlying strategies being pursued. The Plan includes, inter alia, strategies
and schedules for the following: (i) initiating competition in the provision urban passenger services through
franchising and tendering bus routes, (ii) creating independent passenger Transport Authorities (PTAs),
- 8 -



(iii) improving cost recovery through revised fare structures, (iv) reducing exemptions and introducing
improved compensation mechanisms for exemptions, while taking into account the needs of those in the
poverty group.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Enhancing Municipal Road Finances. Initiating urban road finance reforms is one of the major objectives
of the project. The poor condition of the urban road networks is clearly the result of inadequate funding
mechanisms and must be addressed as the highest priority. The actual impact on broader municipal finance
reforms may be small during the project implementation period, since the project is concerned mainly with
urban road funding. Nevertheless, this will be an important and necessary step that will pave the way for a
program with greater impact in the future. Here the project will build upon and incorporate the results of
ongoing work under the USAID funded Government Decentralization Project which includes a special
municipal finance component. The project includes establishment of a Working Group with representatives
from the cities, Oblasts, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Transport and Communications, Office of the
President, and other interested stakeholders. The Working Group will be headed by a senior government
official and will be advised by an international Consultant. The Consultant will facilitate the preparation of
a time bound Action Plan and assist in its implementation, during the project, for enhancing the revenues
available for urban road fmance form locally generated sources and improved expenditure management.
The Working Group will also review, and establish clear and predictable guidelines for allocation of funds
for urban road use under the National Road Fund. Thus far the Road Fund has provided a level of
protection for road sector funding in the face of demands from all sectors for budgetary resources, which
has helped to maintain the main national roads in the worst condition. The next step is to commercialize
the Road Fund, in part by restructuring the Fund and improving its management. The project will initiate
this process through addressing the RF revenues, revenue allocation process and Road Fund management.
One of the revenue sources for the RF is the turnover tax; it is proposed that the turnover tax be replaced
by more appropriate user charges such as fuel taxes. This is one of the actions required for the Third
Tranche of the Consolidated Structural Adjustment Loan, recently negotiated by the Government and IDA.
The Government is committed to making this change and the Working Group, set up under this project, will
assist in identifying the appropriate level of gas taxes to replace the turnover tax. In reviewing the
allocations from the Fund it will be necessary to balance the continued requirements of the national roads
against the increasingly urgent funding needs of urban roads.
Better quality and efficiency of Road Fund management are desirable in the Kyrgyz Republic. This entails
the creation of a Road Board, responsible to the government through the Ministry of Transport. The Road
Board would include representatives of the MoTC, Ministry of Finance, sub-national government units
including municipalities, and road users including public and private road transport operators. The Board
would be responsible for all fund collection, distribution, accounting and monitoring of all road related
expenditures. The ADB project under preparation, for the third phase of the Bishkek-Osh road, continues
the institutional and policy reforms initiated earlier. In particular, the ADB targets a review of the sources
and expenditures from the Road Fund to implement the user pays principle. The Adviser to the Working
Group, established under the project, will work in cooperation with the ADB Consultants to support and
further the policy reforms required to improve Road Fund efficiency.
Separating Road Planning. Budgeting, and Contract Administration from Road Construction. To
implement competitive tendering and contracting practices for urban road improvements, a clear separation
is needed between the municipal organizations that plan, program, budget and manage road works, and the
contractors who will carry out the works. This requires the reorganization (or creation) and strengthening
-9-



of the appropriate institutions within the project cities. To varying degrees, the actual performance of road
rehabilitation and maintenance in the project cities has been mixed with the core city functions of planning,
budgeting and managing the road systems. Under the project it is proposed that the cities retain the core
managernent functions in a single Road Management Department (RMD). The RMDs would have the
following functions and characteristics: (i) it would inventory and regularly monitor the condition of the
road network; (ii) it would prepare plans, programs, and budgets for road improvements (including capital
construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance); (iii) it would administer all road construction, rehabilitation,
and maintenance contracts (including the road construction contract administration function currently held
by the Capital Construction Department in Bishkek); (iv) it would be an integral part of the city
administration, and would not be financially self-sustaining or revenue-generating; (v) it would not directly
perforn any road construction, rehabilitation or maintenance functions; and (vi) it could assume the traffic
engineering function as part of its roads responsibility (e.g., road signing, pavement marking, and traffic
signals).
Divestiture of all Road Construction Entities. Concurrent with the creation of the Road Management
Departments, all road construction functions would be divested from city management and financial
control. More specifically these road construction entities would be corporatized with full or at least
majority ownership in private hands. This will be a significant step as, preliminary indications are that,
about 1000 employees across the three cities would be moved from municipal employment to the private
sector. This should result in significant economies for municipal budgets, as it appears that currently more
road funds are directed to salaries than to physical road improvements. Further, experience in many cities
around the world has shown that road rehabilitation and maintenance conducted by private sector concerns
under competitively bid contracts normally result in significant cost reductions.
Addressing Public Transport Issues through Ongoing Policy Dialogue. Substantial reform in the Public
Transport sector has already been achieved during project preparation. Bus services in the project cities
are increasingly run by private operators, and this has raised operating efficiency and reduced the need for
government subsidies. The cities have initiated competitive route franchising and are seeking measures to
reduce operational subsidies to the public bus operator. The Bank will continue to support the ongoing
reform process via an active policy dialogue with the cities on sector regulation, efficiency improvements in
revenue collection, and competitive franchising.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Proiect Cities. Project investments will be directed at the three principal Kyrgyz cities of Bishkek (the
capital), Osh, and Jalal-Abad which have estimated populations of 1 million, 450 thousand, and 100
thousand persons respectively. The population of these cities combined accounts for about 1/3 of the
national population of the Kyrgyz Republic, (which is estimated at approximately 4.5 million), and the
economies of these cities likely account for at least half of the total national GDP. Bishkek is located on the
north-central frontier close to the Kazakhstan border. Osh and Jalal-Abad lie close to each other on the
west-central frontier near the border with Uzbekistan.
- 10-



List of Project Components. Project components and costs are listed in the table below.
IndicatIve            Ia*-       %o
Component                  Sector        costs     % of    financing   Bnk-
(UW$S)    Total     (U$M)    filnancin
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance  Urban Transport  16.27     67.2     14.64      66.5
in Bishkek
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance  Urban Transport  3.43      14.2      3.08      14.0
in Osh
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance  Urban Transport  2.01       8.3      1.82       8.3
in Jalal-Abad
Engineering Services (desing second &  Engineering    1.50       6.2      1.50       6.8
third years, construction supervision
Urban Road Finance Reforn         Public Financial    0.10       0.4      0.10       0.5
Management
Operating costs for Project       Public Financial    0.39       1.6      0.35       1.6
Implementation Unit               Management
Environmental Monitoring          Urban               0.03       0.1      0.03       0.1
Environment
Miscellaneous Road Management and  Urban Transport    0.11       0.5      0.10       0.5
Project Management Equipment
Audit Fees                        Public Financial    0.08       0.3      0.08       0.4
Management
Project Preparation Advance       Pre-Investment /    0.30       1.2      0.30       1.4
Portfolio
Development
Total Project Costs                  24.22      100.0    22.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                  24.22      100.0     22.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports fundamental urban transport sector reforms, including the following:
* initiating the process to establish reliable and sustainable sources of financing urban road rehabilitation
and maintenance needs.
* addressing Road Fund management and allocation procedures to provide a reliable source of funding
for urban roads.
* broad based strengthening and development of new institutional capabilities of road departments in the
project cities to manage urban road assets.
* the development and sustainability of a private road construction and consulting industry capable of
operating in a competitive environment.



3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits of investments in the project will consist principally of improved road conditions and
consequent reduced vehicle operating costs. As reflected in the high rates of return and net present values,
the benefits are expected to be considerable. The road investments are focused on the most heavily used
streets within the public transport network, thus benefiting users of public transport proportionately more.
While no specific population group is targeted, the urban poor who are most dependent on urban passenger
services should receive considerable benefits. The project will have an immediate positive effect on
employment, as contractors and workers are engaged to carry out the work. This will include some skilled
former employees of city road construction services, but is likely to include unemployed workers who
would otherwise not be part of the labor force.
The project will have benefits on the cost side as well. Until recently, all Kyrgyz road construction was
carried out by force account, through a network of construction units that often produced low quality work.
These have now, or will soon be, corporatized and/or privatized and will have to compete for contracts
under standard Bank conditions and oversight. It is expected that the competitive approach, which is an
important development objective, will lead to improve quality and reduced unit costs of maintenance.
Improved road maintenance management, and project management will lead to more efficient and equitable
use of resources under the project and beyond.
The pilot regulatory reforms in urban passenger services introduced during the project preparation period in
all three project cities have already had major beneficial impacts on public transport provision. The most
important of these is the influx of private operators into the sector compensating for the decline in capacity
of publicly owned operators. These operators provide reliable, non-subsidised services, at competitive
prices. The competitive pressure exerted by these operators has led to increased efficiency of public
transport operators as well, and reduced the need for public subsidies for a given level of service. The
overall welfare of public transport users has been enhanced; and a whole range of skilled workers who were
either unemployed or not paid in their former employment have found employment.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
* Overall project management will be handled by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the
Ministry of Transport and Communications. This unit will coordinate most technical assistance
financed under the project and will provide assistance and support to the project cities. The PIU will
have overall responsibility for financial management aspects of the project, including accounting,
financial reporting, administration of the Special Account and auditing arrangements. The PIU will hire
a consulting engineering firm that will be directly responsible for construction supervision for all civil
works under the project in cooperation with the city road management departments.
*   Each project city will appoint a representative to work with the PIU, to monitor progress, provide
municipal input, receive and give guidance, disseminate information to their city administrations, to
coordinate activities, and to ensure practical implementation. The newly established Road Management
Departments (RMDs) within the city administrations will manage the road rehabilitation and
maintenance contracts in each project city in cooperation with the consulting engineer.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Prior to June 1999 the project preparation effort was directed at preparing an urban passenger transport
- 12 -



project aimed at increasing the level of service in the three project cities while making these services more
efficient and financially sustainable. At this time representatives of the Kyrgyz Republican government
requested the Bank to redirect the focus of the project from urban passenger transport services to that of
improving the condition of the road systems in the same project cities. The Bank concurred with this
request since much had already been accomplished in strengthening the passenger transport systems in all
three project cities, tendering of bus services was already taking place, and private sector operators were
providing additional services obviating the need for substantial Bank financing of urban passenger vehicles.
Indeed, the choice of investment components not only had to do with what to finance, an equally important
choice was how best to pursue policy reforms. The Bark continues to effectively support the policy reforms
in urban public transport.
Among the project alternatives which have been considered are the following:
*   Assisting only Public Sector Urban Passenger Service Operators. This option has been pursued in
other ECA projects with mixed results. Some improvements in public sector operator efficiencies have
been achieved and cost recovery has improved, but not sufficiently to pemit sustainable operations
without substantial and continued govemmental subsidies. It is clear that much more extensive private
sector participation along with competitive regimes is needed to provide adequate and efficient urban
passenger service to urban residents. Moreover, it was viewed by many Kyrgyz officials that
improvements to urban passenger services would need to be supported by improvements to the urban
road network as a means of reducing wear and tear on operating vehicles. A project focused on
assisting only public sector operators would likely have the adverse effect of propping up inefficient
public operators at the expense of deterring the entry or enlargement of private sector operators in the
provision of urban passenger services.
* Financing only Private Sector Urban Passenger Service Operators. While financing only those
operators could be an option, this approach was also rejected because it would not address the most
pressing constraint which is the serious and deteriorating conditions of the urban road network in the
project cities. Moreover, a project focused on financing only private sector operators would have been
a very risky operation given the relatively unsophisticated and fragile nature of the financial system in
the Kyrgyz Republic. During project preparation considerable progress was made in facilitating private
sector operations in the project cities without the need for Bank financing.
* Financing only Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance with No Urban Passenger Services Reforms
. Fnancing only road maintenance and rehabilitation would be an acceptable option since the condition
of the urban road network in aMl the project cities is the most pressing issue they face. However, this
would have meant foregoing the opportunity to also promote reforms in urban passenger services.
* Financing only Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance but with Limited Urban Passenger Services
Reforms This is the option selected for the project, after extensive discussions with the Kyrgyz
Government and city authorities. Under this option all of the Credit funds would be channeled into road
rehabilitation and maintenance, and no Credit funds would be allocated for urban passenger services.
However, a modest amount of available grant funds will be utilized for assisting continuation of the
urban passenger reform process in Bishkek. Additional grant funding will be sought to further the
reform process in all three project cities.
- 13 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Ltest Supervision
Sector IsePod                                                S   Ro adg
Implemnww&Mon  Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progos (IP)   Objective (DO)
Modest cost recovery umprovemnents  Russia Urban Transport Project  U              S
have been achieved but substantial
subsidies are still required. Private
sector operators have appeared and are
gaining market share. Procurement of
vehicles was a slow and expensive
process. Several cities unable to repay
loan due principally to substantial
Ruble devaluation, but there is good
progress towards resolving these
problems.
Modest cost recovery improvements  Kazakhstan Urban Transport        S             S
have been achieved but subsidies are  Project
still required. Private sector operators  (Ongoing)
have appeared and bidding for route
franchises has been implemented.
Regulation of fares policy has     Budapest Urban Transport          S             S
undermiined full achievemnent of   Project (Ongoing)
financial goals. Substantial reforms
have been achieved while keeping the
public transport operator mnodel.
All Bank financed projects were    Turlanenistan Urban Transport    U             U
suspended in Turlanenistan due to  Project (Ongoing)
procurement issues. Activity on this
project is now resumed, and there is
hope that through restructuring it will
be turned around.
This project is aimed at supporting the Uzbekistan Urban Transport
Governmnent policy of encouraging  Project (To be submitted to the
competition in the provision of urban  Board shortly
passenger services.
- 14 -



Other development agencies
This US Aid program in several     ULkraine Urban Transport
Ukraine cities has achieved substantial  Project (US Aid)
improvements in public sector operating
efficiencies principally through offering
premium service with smnall vehicles
and no exempted passengers.
Improvements were also attained
through (a) more attention to cost
recovery and introduction of modem
accounting techniques, (b) changes to
route structures, and (c) encouraging
employee buyouts of the compames.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank has broad experience in urban transport projects In different parts of the world, including the
FSU. Some of the key lessons derived from the Bank's work in the sector are summarized below:
It is Important to Emphasize Maintenance. Past reviews of Bank-financed urban transport and highway
projects in ECA confirm the primacy of maintaining existing systems before investing in expansion. This is
something that the Kyrgyz Republic is now well aware of and maintenance is the primary focus of the
project.
Devolution of Responsibilities to City and Local Governments is Important for Sustainabilily. One of
the main lessons emerging from Bank experience is that the single most important requirement for
sustainable institutional improvement in urban transport planning, programming, and design is the
devolution of these responsibilities to competent city and local governments. The project supports the
devolution of these responsibilities and provides technical assistance for capacity enhancement at the local
level.
Simplicity in Project Design Lowers Project Risks. Another irnportant lesson in project preparation is to
keep project design simple, as the inclusion of multiple components and institutions greatly increases the
risks to the project. This design of this operation has been kept simple with the main focus on emergency
repairs and institutional reforms in the urban roads sub-sector.
Timely Project Preparation is Important for Successful Implementation. Experience from around the
world underlines the importance of rigorous, early preparation for major civil and ancillary works and early
preparation for procurement activities. This is especially important in the urban transport context, where
traffic and other impacts during construction may cause greater risks to project costs and schedules.
Advance preparation of bidding documentation are likely to foster smooth implementation and help reduce
variations during the implementation period. Bids for the first year construction program have been
received as have proposals from short listed firtms for detailed design of the second and third year programs
and construction supervision for the entire project have already been sent to short listed finrs. Construction
is poised to start during August pending Credit approval and conditions for loan effectiveness being met.
- 15 -



Quality Assurance during Construction is also Vital for a Successful Outcome. Experience has shown
that it is necessary to build quality control mechanisms into all projects. Higher costs result from
premature deterioration, when corrective actions in the form of increased maintenance and/or rehabilitation
are required. To address this concern, a series of measures has been built into the project including
stringent contractor prequalification, careful formulation of supervision arrangements, (including
engagement of international experts), and training of local supervision staff.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
*   The strongest indication of borrower commitment and ownership has been the high levels of human and
financial resources which have been dedicated to the project since its inception as an idea, over two
years ago.
*   Kyrgyz Ministry of Transportation and Communication and city officials have collaborated in
preparing an urban transport policy paper and action plan which addresses the key project objectives
and issues (Action Plan attached as Annex 12).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank could provide substantial value added in the following ways:
*   Municipal Finance Reforms. The Kyrgyz Government has completed a number of studies on
Municipal Finance Reform under various initiatives. In addressing the objective of increasing resources
for urban rods rehabilitation and maintenance, the project will initiate the first steps in comprehensive
municipal finance reform. These reforms will not be achieved under the project but the stage for
broader reform will be set.
* Public Transport Reforms. The project has already assisted the government, during the preparation
phase, in implementing substantial reforms in the public transport sector. The regulatory and
institutional reforms already completed have taken this sector from a publicly owned, monopoly
operator to an increasingly commercially oriented, multi-operator competitive model of transport
services provision.
*   Demonstration Potential. While the project will focus on only three cities, the project is designed to
have a substantial demonstration potential for adoption by other Kyrgyz urban areas.
*   Competitive Procurement Practices. While the Governnent has fornally introduced ICB and LCB
competitive procurement practices by legislative acts and by the creation of a central procurement body
with the assistance of the Bank, the country is still at a formative stage in introducing competitive
procurement practices. The project will extend and deepen these practices into the project cities.
* Institutional Development. The Bank has had extensive experience in assisting borrowers in preparing
and implementing urban transport projects in many cities that have multiple agencies concerned with
passenger services and road infrastructure issues. The Bank is accustomed to working across these
institutional boundaries under a single project framework and in providing a catalytic role in bringing
together all concerned parties to meet project objectives.
- 16 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$74.5 million; ERR = 157 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The road sections included in the first year program were selected from a preliminary list prepared by the
project cities. A cost-benefit analysis was carried out by the Ministry of Transport and Cormnunications,
supported by external consultants, and the final program selection was based on that. The road investment
component includes (i) periodic repairs/maintenance of sections of the urban public transport roads
network, (ii) rehabilitation of sections of the public transport road network. A set of maintenance and
rehabilitation strategies were compared using the Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM-3).
Economic rates of return (ERRs) and net present values (NPVs) were calculated from incremental costs
and benefits. The benefits included are savings in road user costs due to inproved pavement conditions,
road agency savings in future maintenance costs arising from timely rehabilitation, and passenger time cost
savings. Costs of institution building activities, such as technical assistance, design, supervision,
monitoring and physical contingencies were incorporated into the investment costs to perform the economic
evaluation.
The NPV is calculated using a 12 % percent discount rate and a 20 year simulation period. The ERR and
the NPV of the priority works are estimated to be in excess of 60 % and US$ 106 million. Traffic volumes
over the road sections under consideration were in the range of 10,000 to 28,000 vehicles per day for
Bishkek, and between 5,000 to 20,000 vehicles per day for Osh and Jalalabad.
Road Rehabilitation                     ERR (%)                  NPV, (US$ million)
Bishkek                                   208                           90
Osh                                       124                           13
Jalalabad                                  61                            3
A limited sensitivity analysis for the worst case scenario was completed. Under the assumption of zero
traffic growth and no time savings, all sections included in the program remain viable though the NPVs are
substantially lower. The average ERR is still above 100/o. There is one qualification to this result. The
lower traffic in the no growth scenario would result in slower road deterioration and thus lower roughness
in both the with and without cases. Ignoring this might have overstated the results but given the initial very
high benefits, it seems unlikely that a more detailed analysis would alter the recommendations.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Financial analysis covered in:
(i) fiscal impact and counterpart funding arrangements below, and in Section B
(ii) national road fund budget allocations and municipal budget for participating cities (see Section B)
(iii) financial management capacity assessment (see Annex 6)
- 17 -



Fiscal Impact:
Fiscal considerations are extremely important for this project. Summarized below are the principal project
financing issues and decisions reached.
Project Counterpart Funding. The Government has indicated concern about the required project
counterpart contribution requirements which must amount to at least 10% of the total project cost net of
taxes and duties, or a total of $2.22 million. However, it has been agreed that the counterpart funding will
be provided by a mixture of local government contributions and allocations from the National Road Fund.
On-lending to Project Cities. The Government currently proposes to on-lend to Bishkek in US dollars at
1% per annum for 15 years, with 5 years grace on the principal. The Government proposes to lend to Osh
and Jalal-Abad on the same terms and conditions except for a 20 year period and 5 years grace. Under this
arrangement the foreign exchange risk would be assumed by the project cities. In the event that the
repayment requirements of the cites exceed a reasonable share of total city revenues, the central government
will provide financial relief. Terms and conditions for on-lending and the criteria for central government for
financial relief to the cities confirmed at negotiations.
Taxes and Duties. The Government has proposed to waive taxes and duties under the project.
A summary estimate by year of the amounts of IDA funds and counterpart contributions (in US $ millions)
is provided in the table below.
2000              2001             2002              2003
IDA Funds           4.70              8.50             8.70              0.10
Counterpart Funds      0.41              0.89             0.90              0.02
3. Technical:
There are no remaining technical issues. Design standards have been agreed upon. The first year
construction program is fully designed and bids have been received under ICB guidelines.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Roads Departments in the project cities will execute construction contracts with the assistance of the
PIU within the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The PIU will hire the consulting engineer who
will be directly responsible for design of the second and third year construction program, supervision of all
civil works financed by the project, and for technical training of city road department staff. The cities will
assist the PIU and the consulting engineer in selecting priority road sections and monitoring the design
process.
4.2 Project management:
Overall project management will be handled by the PIU. The PIU will assume the following
responsibilities: (i) maintain strong communication and liaise with appropriate central government and
project cities officials, and the Bank on key project issues; (ii) prepare and maintain consolidated project
accounts; (iii) process Credit withdrawal applications including administration of the Special Account; (iv)
provide procurement and project administration assistance to the project cities; (v) monitor project status
and prepare quarterly and annual reports, including financial report, project progress report and
procurement management report and (vi) make arrangements for auditing of the project financial
- 18 -



statements by independent auditors.
Flow of Funds
The IDA Credit of US$22.0 million equivalent will initially be disbursed on basis of traditional
disbursement procedures. After approval of financial management systems of the PIU by the Bank, and
with mutual agreement with the Bank, the Borrower may choose to substitute traditional disbursements
with PMR-based disbursements. The Borrower is the Kyrgyz Republic. Proceeds of the Credit will be
on-lend to the three Project cities Bishkek, Osh and Jalal-Abad. The counterpart contribution of US $2.22
million equivalent will be provided by a mixture of local govermnent contributions allocations from the
National Road Fund as described in the financial section above.
Overall project management and administration will be the responsibility of the PIU within the Ministry of
Transport and Comnnunications. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will open one
Special Account for the Project in a commercial bank under conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Administration of the Special Account, including Credit disbursements for all Project components of the
three participating cities, and preparation of consolidated accounts and financial reporting will be
centralized at the PIU. The project supervising engineer (foreign contractor) will issue engineer's
certificates for works completed and forward the documentation for authorization for payment to the
accounting department at the city level. The Project Manager who is also the Minister of Transport and
Communications makes the final authorization for payment of project expenditures incurred by the
participating cities through the PIU which is responsible for payments of all project expenditures financed
through the IDA Credit and counterpart funds. With these arrangements, Credit funds will not be handled
by the participating cities and project accounting will be carried out by the PRU, there is, therefore, no
requirement for auditing of the participating cities. Counterpart funds will be maintained in a Project
Account to be maintained in a commercial Bank. Opening of the Project Account in a commercial Bank
satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
Retroactive Financing
To facilitate prompt execution of IDA-financed operations, up to US$2.2 million equivalent is pernitted
for retroactive financing of project expenditures made after May 1, 2000 and before the Credit signing.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement Arrangements. Contracts for works and goods to be financed under the Loan will be procured
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines - Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated
January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); consultants will be
hired in accordance to the Guidelines - Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, dated January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999.Major project elements, their
estimated costs and proposed procurement methods and packages are shown in Annex 6. Bank Standard
Bidding Documents will be used. All procurement under the proposed project will be carried out by the
Project Inplementation Unit in the Ministry of Transport and Communications. A procurement capacity
assessment of the agency was conducted during project preparation. Based on the assessment's findings, an
action plan (including recommended procurement arrangements and provision of training and intermational
procurement assistance) was prepared by the Bank. The main objective of this plan is to enhance the
implementation agency capacity in conducting competitive procurement and apply Bank Procurement
Guidelines under the project The actions under this plan have been agreed with the Borrower during
pre-appraisal. Failure to carry out these actions would be an event of default.
- 19 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
An assessment of the financial management capacity of the PIU was canied out during project
pre-appraisal and agreement reached on actions required to strengthen the capacity of the PIU. The Carana
Corporation is in the process of installing a computerized accounting and financial reporting system to
replace the existing manual system. The system capable of producing Project Management Reports
(PMRs) will be installed and tested by December 31, 2000. The PIU is fully operational with a staff of
eight experts including: director, procurement specialist, economist, transport expert, road expert,
municipal finance expert, accountantldisbursement officer and translator. The PIU reports to the Project
Manager/Minister - Ministry of Transport and Communications. Summary assessment is presented in
Annex 6, and full report available in the Project Files.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Rated a Category B, an Environmental Management Plan has been prepared for the project. The
Kyrgyz Republic Urban Transport Project will involve rehabilitating sections of road within urban
areas of Bishkek, Osh and Jalal-Abad. Road rehabilitation activities will range from pavement crack
sealing and pot hole repairs, to pavement grinding, application of leveling course and repaving with
asphalt or surface course (chip seal). In some cases pavement and sub-grade material will be removed
by excavation to expose underlying drainage conduits that will be repaired or replaced.
The project will not involve road widening or realignment and, hence, there will be no land acquisition
or relocation. As all work wil be confined within urban centers, there are no issues associated with
disruption to indigenous peoples. Work will be undertaken within the existing curb to curb dimensions
of the roadways and, therefore, none of the trees that line the roadways in the project areas, or adjacent
urban green space or parks will be affected by the project.
Impacts are expected to be confined to the immediate area of construction and will primarily involved
generation of noise and fugitive dust that will affect adjacent businesses and residential apartment
complexes. Cleaning of drainage works may produce sediments contaminated with elevated
concentrations of lead, the result of deposition of lead aerosols from years of automobile use of leaded
gasoline, which will have to be disposed of in an environmentally acceptable manner. Aside from
potential noise and dust impacts on local inhabitants, other impacts may include local disruption to
traffic flows during construction. A traffic management plan will be developed to address this issue.
Asphalt plants and aggregate quarries are located within the existing project cities and are approved for
operation under existing environmental passports. It is expected that these facilities will be available to
contractors employed to carry out the construction work. However, if contractors propose to develop
new locations for asphalt plants or aggregate quarries, then additional EA studies will be required.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP identifies the environmental and socio-economic impacts related to project works. Direct impacts
arise from (i) potential air contamination resulting from possible development of new aggregate quarTy and
asphalt batch plants; (ii) possible release of contaminants (lead, zinc, cadmium, etc.) from potentially
contaminated roadside soils during excavation; (iii) potential contamination of soils from accidental release
of fuels, lubricants or solvents during refueling and equipment maintenance operations during construction,
-20-



and/or improper disposal of liquid and solid construction wastes.
Key socio-economic impacts of concern during construction include worker health and safety, noise,
vibration, and dust disturbance to local residences, reduced access to residences and businesses during
construction, and temporarily reduced traffic flows during construction.
The EMP also identifies (i) measures to mitigate the impacts identified above; (ii) authorities responsible
for implementing the mitigation measures; (iii) monitoring requirements; (iv) authorities responsible for
monitoring and enforcement activities; (v) cost of the mitigation, monitoring, and training program required
under the project.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: May 3, 2000
An EMP has been prepared and submitted to the Bank The EMP has been approved by the Ministry of
Environmental Protection, the agency responsible for environment related issues in the Kyrgyz Republic.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
As part of the EMP preparation process, the PIU has consulted with local NGOs and obtained their input
on likely impacts and mitigation opportunities. The EMP document was provided to local libraries in the
three project cities for public comment, and comments have been incorporated in the final document.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Monitoring will primarily be carried out by the Kyrgyzstan Ministry of Environmental Protection's
Environmental Inspectorate Department. This will involve compliance monitoring to ensure construction
activities comply with the environmental laws, standards and norms of the Kyrgyz Republic. Some specific
environmental measurements will be taken to confirm whether soil contaminants are a legitimate concern.
Contract compliance monitoring will be the responsibility of the PIU.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Approximately 50 % of the Kyrgyz population lived below the poverty line in 1997 and this share
increased to more than 60 % in 1998. Despite the increase in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 1997,
GDP in 1998 was below the level in 1996. The related increase in poverty affected mainly the urban areas
even though the severity of poverty remained greater in the rural areas. According to the report on "Poverty
in the Kyrgyz Republic", the sectors that suffered the biggest declines in output were industry,
construction, and transport. Bishkek has been identified as one of the worst affected Oblasts by the increase
in poverty levels.
A social assessment was completed for the project in the early stages of project preparation. The objective
was to identify stakeholders and assess the likely impact of the project on various groups, particularly
women and the poor. The SA was also directed towards identifying potential negative impacts of the
proposed project. It is noted that the focus of the SA was urban passenger transport, in line with the project
alternative being considered at the time. The SA highlighted the following main points: (i) Transport is one
-21 -



of the major problems faced by survey respondents; (ii) The poor spend an estimated 25 % of their monthly
income on transportation as compared to an average of 18% for all income groups; (iii) More than half the
urban residents use public transport every day; (iv) About half the urban households would be willing to
pay more for improvements in service quality; (v) Poor road conditions were identified as one of the main
drivers of higher vehicle maintenance costs, by drivers; (vi) carrying subsidized passengers is seen as a
major burden by bus companies; (vii) Removal of exemptions is likely to hurt low income pensioners the
most. The SA did not identify any negative impacts of the proposed project.
The project targets the three largest urban areas in the Kyrgyz Republic which have suffered the bulk of the
increase in poverty levels in recent years. Within the three cities, Bishkek with its larger road network has a
higher share of investments under the project. As mentioned above, urban areas, Bishkek Oblast in
particular, and the transport sector, have seen the biggest increases in poverty, so the poor are likely to be
the biggest beneficiaries of the project.
The benefits of investments in the project will consist of imnproved road conditions and reduced vehicle
operating costs, and travel time saving for passengers. The road investments are focused on the most
heavily used streets within the public transport network, thus benefiting users of public transport
proportionately more. While no specific group is targeted, the urban poor who are most dependent on
public passenger services are expected to be the biggest beneficiaries.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
A participatory approach has been followed throughout project preparation. Consultations organized by the
PIU have allowed fruitful dialogue involving municipalities, ministries, operators, and transport
associations. The project preparation team and staff of the PIU have had extensive discussions with private
operators, individuals and associations, and private contractors in each of the project cities. A social
assessment including potential stakeholders was also completed during project preparation. The social
assessment itself was completed by a local NGO. The preparation of the environmental assessment has also
followed a participatory approach, including consultations with environment NGOs and various
government stakeholders, as well as public dissemination of the EMP.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The Social Assessment for the project was completed by a local NGO. Private environmental NGOs have
reviewed and commnented on the Environment Management Plan.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The PIU will be responsible for ensuring preparation of a mid-term social impact assessment for the project.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
A mid-term social assessment will be used to monitor and review the project's social impact. The
government's agreement to the social assessment will be sought during Negotiations.
- 22 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safegud policies apply to the project?
Policy                          IApplicability
O Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01, GP 4.011           X Ye,s O No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04 GP 4.04                   [I Yes Z No
El_Forestry (OP 4_36.                                            El 4  Yes 1 No
El Pest Managemnent _OP 4.09)                                      Yes 2 No
El_Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  l [Yes Z No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.201                                 El Yes 1 No
l Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             E Yes Z No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 43n                               _ll Yes 1 No
O Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50. GP 7.501   LI Yes 1 No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60Q BP 7.60. GP 7.60)       El Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
A comprehensive Environment Mitigation Plan has been completed by the Borrower. The project provides
assistance for monitoring the project environmental impact and compliance with the EMP. In addition, civil
works contracts include a clause requiring compliance with applicable EMP actions.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This project has been necessitated by the protracted lack of adequate and sustainable finance for urban
roads. As a result, the urban road network in the project cities has been allowed to deteriorate, and this rate
of deterioration will accelerate without mitigating measures. The project will only help in the short run by
rehabilitating about 10% of the surfaced road networks in the three project cities and by providing routine
maintenance measures to additional road sections. Project sustainability will be achieved only by a
combination of measures aimned at substantially increasing on a sustainable basis funding for urban road
maintenance and rehabilitation. Progress towards financial sustainability will be sought under the project
through measures to be identified by the Working Group on municipal finance and its advisers.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Rlsk Rating           Rlsk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Road improvement programs do not        M         The first year construction program is designed
proceed on schedule and are implemented              and bids have been received for works in all
with poor quality                                   three project cities. Proposals have been
received from short listed firms for designing the
second and third year programs, for construction
supervision of all civil works to be financed by
IDA, and for technology transfer to municipal
govermments.
- 23 -



2. Insufficient interest of private       M         A total of only 7 construction contracts are
contractors with suitable road                      proposed for the entire project, one for each of
maintenance and rehabilitation experience           the three years in Bishkek, and one for the first
year and one for the second and third years each
for Osh and Jalal-Abad. By packaging the
contracts in this manner, they are likely to be
large enough to attract international firms. The
presence of an internationally qualified
engineering finm with known competence to
supervise the work ought to increase the level of
confidence of several international contracting
firms to participate in the bidding.
3. Local Road Departments do not          M         Commitments have been made by the project
actively participate in the project and do          cities to provide prescribed staff to work on the
not learn from the experience.                      project. The consulting engineer will be
required to regularly meet with city road
department staff and to conduct staff training.
4. Cities do not adequately implement      H        The project seeks government commitment to
measures to enhance revenue sources for             implement the Action Plan for revenue
urban road maintenance and rehabilitation           enhancement, agreed by the Working Group on
Municipal Finance reform and the Bank, by
December 31, 2001. The Working Group would
include representatives of city governments.
5. Adequate and stable Road Fund           S        The Working Group on Municipal Finance
allocations are not secured for the benefit         reform, with the assistance of international
for the project cities during the sub-loan          consultants, will assess methods for allocating
repayment period.                                   funds to urban areas and will additionally assess
the appropriate management structure for the
Road Fund with a view to more local
government participation and transparency
From Components to Outputs
1. Lack of adequate provision for         M         Agreement has been received in principle that
counterpart funding for the project                 adequate counterpart funding will be provided
by a combination of city contributions and
allocations from the National Road Fund. For
2000, cities have already made provision for
their contribution to the counterpart funds
required for this year's construction work.
Commnitment to specific amounts, by
governmental unit, by year will be sought at
negotiations.
-24-



2. The PIU, who hires the engineering      N         The consulting and construction contracting
consultant, and the cities, who hire the             arrangements were explained in detail with the
road maintenance and rehabilitation                  project cities as part of a workshop during the
contractors do not cooperate.                       last mission. Detailed arrangements are spelled
out in the consulting engineers terms of
reference. The first supervision mission will
again address this matter with all three parties.
3. Inadequate central government and       M         Agreement will be sought at negotiations on a
municipal government participation in the            Working Group consisting of representatives of
Municipal Finance Reform Working                     each project city, the Ministry of Finance, and
Group.                                              the Ministry of Transport and Communications.
A local municipal finance expert has been hired
by the PIU to work with city and central
govenmment stakeholders, and international
consultants will facilitate the task of the
Working Group. Preparation of an agreed
Action Plan and its implementation are dated
covenants under the project.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There may be resistance to increases in National Road Fund allocations to the project cities for urban road
maintenance, as well to make the needed changes to increase municipal financial resources for the purpose
of increased expenditures on roads. There is resistance to spend more than a minimal amount of technical
assistance funds to study the matter. The willingness of the government to adequately address these
financial issues and to introduce needed changes rests on their awareness that without revenue enhancement
measures on a sustainable basis, urban road assets will continue to deteriorate.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1.     Subsidiary Loan agreements between the Borrower and each project city have been executed
2.    Appointment of an independent Auditor on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Board Conditions
1.     A Working Group consisting of at least representatives of the project cities, the Ministry of
Finance and the Ministry of Transportation and Communications with agreed terms of reference to have
been established to prepare a time-bound action plan for providing adequate and sustainable sources of
-25 -



funding for the project cities and to monitor the implementation of the plan during the project
imnplementation period. The Plan should be furnished to IDA no later than December 30, 2000, and
thereupon promptly implemented after taking into account such comments as IDA may reasonably provide.
2.    Initiation of selection of Consultants for the Urban Finance Reform Working Group.
Conditions for Negotiations
1.    Completion of all environmental requirements
2.     Letter from Government confirming suitable counterpart funding commitment.
Agreements Reached at Negotiations
1.    The following financial matters were confirmed:
*   Specific arnounts of counterpart funding from city and central government sources to be
provided for each year of project implementation
* On-lending terms and conditions
* Exemption of Taxes and Duties under the project
2.     The terrns of reference and selection of consultants for the Urban Road Finance Program
3.     The Environmental Mitigation Action Plan
4.     The Project Implementation Plan
Dated Covenants
During negotiations agreemnents were reached on the following:
1.    The Borrower will open a Project Account in a Conmnercial Bank acceptable to IDA, and deposit
into the account an initial anount of US$500,000.
2.     The Borrower and each of the project cities will collaborate and prepare city-specific time-bound
implementation plans no later than December 31, 2000 for the purpose of securing sustainable road finance
in the project cities. The plan will contain for IDA review agreed actions for increasing revenues in each
project city as a means for improving urban road finance and will also contain agreed actions with respect
to allocations from the National Road Fund to the project cities, increasing Road Fund Revenues, and
altering Road Fund management.
3.     The Borrower will review with the Association time bound implementation plans for improving
road finance in the project cities by March 31, 2001 and will take all measures necessary to implement
these plans during the life of the project.
4.     Semi-annual reports on implementation of the action plan will be prepared no later than June 30
and December 31 of each year during project implementation commencing on June 30, 2001
5.     The Borrower will cause each project city to furnish the Association for its review and comments
- 26 -



by December 31, 2000 a plan for the city to divest itself of all capital road construction staff and
equipment, including asphalt and concrete plants and all road construction equipment, and by July 1, 2001,
or such later date as the Association may agree, implement the plan taking into account the Association's
comments.
6. The PIU, in cooperation with IDA, will carry out a Mid-Term Review of project no later than
December 31, 2001 to assess overall project status and to determine if there is a need for any revisions to
the project objectives and scope. For this the Borrower will furnish the Association by September 30,
2001, a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the project, and will review the report with the
Association by December 31, 2001, and take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and achievement of the objectives.
7.     Consultants to the Urban Road Finance Working Group should be contracted no later than
September 1, 2000.
8.     The Borrower will carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association for the
strengthening of the financial management system in order to enable the Borrower to prepare no later than
December 31, 2000 Project Management Reports acceptable to the Association with regard to financial,
physical, and procurement aspects of the project.
9.     The Borrower will furnish the Association a time bound reforn program for irnproving cost
recovery of urban passenger transport and for the franchising of urban passenger services by December
31, 2000. The Borrower will review the Urban Passenger Trasnport Action Plan with the Association by
March 31, 2001, and will implement the Plan in accordance with a time schedule to be agreed with the
Association.
Other Covenants
1.     The Government will maintain for the duration of the project a Project Account that ensures
sufficient counterpart funds will be available for irnplementation of the project.
2.     The PIU will prepare and submit to the Borrower and the Association, starting in September 2000
and not later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, quarterly reports on the progress of project
implementation.
3.     The Government will furnish the Association within 6 months of the Credit Closing Date a plan for
future operation of the project
4.     The Borrower will maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association.
5.     The Borrower will have the records, accounts, and financial statements as specified by the
Association audited each year according to standards acceptable to the Association, and will furnish within
6 months after the end of each fiscal year an audit in such scope and detail as requested by the Association.
6.     No withdrawals may be made for expenditures prior to the date of the Credit Agreement except
those in aggregate which do not exceed $2.2 million (SDR equivalent 16,700,000) on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after May 1, 2000.
- 27 -



7.     The Borrower will maintain the PIU with adequate staff, resources, and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association until the completion of the project in order for it to manage and coordinate
overall project operations.
8.     The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure the adequacy of the staff retained by the
Road Management Departments of each participating city for the planning and management of road
maintenance and rehabilitation works under the project
9.     The Borrower will undertake all measures required to carry out the Environmental Management
Plan
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first yeares activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
O 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implernentatiox.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
fO 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Richard C. Podolske               Ricardo A. valpe                   yoshi Kodera
Team Leader                       Sector Ma   er/Director          Country Manager/Director
- 28-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Kyrgyz Urban Transport Project
Key P     anoo
Ierarchy of Objecives            Indkators         NMnitoring & Evaluatkon      Critical Assumptions
rSector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
*  Sustain growth through  * Increased role of private  * Mid-term review      *  Government implements
removal of policy and     sector in urban road    * Implementation             project according to plan
regulatory impediments    maintenance and            Completion Report
to private sector activity  rehabilitation
in the road construction  * Impact on public
industry                  finances due to
*  Strengthen public         municipal road finance
finances, especially      and management
though increasing         improvements.
revenues for urban road
maintenance and
rehabilitation
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
1. Reduced transport costs  * Vehicle operating costs  * Social assessment       *  Reduced transport costs
and improved transport         of private and urban       exercise                  and improved transport
accessibility of the general   passenger transport     * Mid-term review            accessibility contributes
public and the low income      vehicle fleets          * Road roughness and         to economic growth
population, in particular                                 other condition surveys
of completed sections
* Vehicle operating cost
survey
2. More effective annual road  *  Implementation of the  * Annual road           *  More efficient public
expenditure programs and       Municipal Road Finance     expenditure review        sector spending
stronger municipal finances    Action Plan               (Road Fund and             contributes to sustained
* Annual budgets for road    municipal road             economic growth
maintenance programs      expenditures)           *  Improved revenues
* Increased opportunities  * Mid-term review with       sources will not be
for private contractors in  special focus on         undermined by poor
civil works               efficiency of public       utilization of the
expenditures under the    increased funding
project
-29 -



Key Pfrao
HIerarchy of Objecves            IndIcatos           knOuring & Evalatn        Critical.Assumpffons
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Improved quality of road  * Road upgrading         * Quarterly progress      *   Improved quality of
surfaces and reduced rate of   completed according to    reports by PIU;           road surfaces leads to
road deterioration on portions  an agreed schedule    *  Supervision mission       reductions in transport
of the road network;        * Road roughness             reports;                  costs
measures               * Mid-term review
* Road roughness surveys
of completed sections
2 (a) Improved road design  * Introduction of road                              *   Better road
and implementation quality,    maintenance                                         management systems
management systems in                               and local technical
2 (b) Increased opportunities  each city                                           capacity lead to efficient
for private sector through  * Number, size, and                                    resource use
competitive bidding,           nationality of private
sector contractors
(c) improved technical         working on project
capacity in local road      * Staff of Road
departments                    departments working on
project
* Quality of construction
3. Stable and reliable funding  * Central and city                              *  Stable and reliable
for city road expenditures     governments agree on                                funding leads to
municipal road finance                              improved road
action plan                                         maintenance planning
* Road improvement
revenues to be generated
by each city
* National road fund
allocations to each city
- 30 -



Project Components I     Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                        Outputs)
1. Road Rehabilitation and  $21.71 million          * Quarterly progress     * Adequate and timely
Maintenance                                            reports by PIU;          provision of counterpart
* Supervision mission       in-kind contributions
reports;
* Mid-term review
2. Engineering Services:  $1.61 million                                      * Good cooperation
* Design of Second &                                                          between the PIU which
Third Year Construction                                                    hires the engineering
Program,                                                                   consultant and the cities
* Construction                                                                who hire the contractors
Supervision,
* Institutional Capacity
Building (Training,
Road Managment
Systems, and realted
equipment) for Road
Rehabilitation and
Maintenance
3. Urban Road Finance    $0.10 million              * Mission review of      * Adequate central and
Consultants                                           findings prior to         municipal support for
December 2000            and participation in the
study
4. Project Management:   $0.50 million              *  Annual audit reports  * Adequate counterpart
* Operating costs for the                                                     funding for PIU
Project Management
Unit
* Project Audits
* Environmental
Monitoring
5. Passenger Transport   $30,000 in grant funds;                             * Adequate grant funding
Reform Program for Bishkek  additional grant funding to be                      will be received to
and possibly other project  sought                                              permit suitable
cities                                                                          assistance to the reform
process
- 31 -



Annex 2: Project Description
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Kyrgyz Urban Transport Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$21.75 million
A.     Civil Works: Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Priority Sections of Urban Streets in the
Country's Three Major Cities
This component includes rehabilitation and maintenance of priority sections of the urban public transport
networks in the cities of Bishkek, Osh and Jalalabad. The selection of roads for inclusion in the project is
made on the basis of economic returns, following classification, condition rating assessment, and remedial
treatmnent proposals. Routine maintenance supplementary funds are also included and directed towards
those sections of roads not included for other rehabilitation treatment The improvement of materials
management and testing capabilities in each city will be included in the provisions of civil works contracts.
Rehabilitation treatments vary from complete reconstruction to asphalt overlays to surface treatments, and
include minor drainage improvements and provision for utility modifications. The routine maintenance
funds are aimed at catching up on crackfilling and pothole repairs. Works will be implemented over a three
year period in Bishkek, and in two years in Osh and Jalalabad.
(i)    Civil Works in Bishkek will include approximately rehabilitation of 72 km of roads at an estirated
cost of approximately US$16.5 million, and maintenance. Selection and design of the first year
construction contract recommends improvements to 13 km of pavement by milling and new asphalt overlay,
and 4 km of surface treatment.
(ii)   Civil works in Osh will include rehabilitation of 14 kms of pavement at a cost of about US$3.4
million, and maintenance. The first year program recommendations include 4 km of milling and overlay.
(iii)  Civil works in Jalal-Abad will allocate US$1.9 million to rehabilitation of about 12 kms of
pavement. 3 km of milling and overlay treatment, plus 1.5 km of reconstruction are recommended for the
first year.
Project Component 2 - US$1.90 million
B. Consultants Services and Training
This component includes consultants services, coordinated through the PIU in the Ministry of Transport
and Communications, for the following:
(i)    Engineering Design and Construction Supervision will introduce current design technologies for
road maintenance and rehabilitation, condition assessment, economic prioritization, and international
tendering and contract administration practices. In addition to on-the-job training opportunities in routine
design and supervision practices, the consultant will assist in establishing standard practices and
procedures, and documenting these in a set of contract administration and construction supervision manuals
for future application in the cities and throughout the
country. Assistance will be provided in establishing and implementing a computerized maintenance
management system for monitoring, evaluating, forecasting and budgeting annual maintenance activities.
- 32 -



(ii)   A Municipal Road Finance Study will address the need of municipalities to access additional
funding resources to sustain the road investments by continuing the maintenance and rehabilitation
activities following the investment program. The study will include both municipal finances and the
National Road Fund.
(iii)  Passenger Reform in Bishkek. The review will suggest a time bound action plan to increase cost
recovery for urban passenger transport services through measures such as route franchising to reduce
revenue leakages, fare structure and subsidies revisions. This study will be financed separately under an
ongoing grant.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.80 million
C. PIU Operating Costs and Project Preparation Facility.
(i)    Project Management and PIU   Operations. This will fund the activities of the Project
Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Transport & Communications, including staff salaries and office
expenses at a total cost of $0.50 million. This will also include PIU financial audits.
(ii)   Project Preparation Facility. This provides for repayment of $0.3 million of funds advanced under
the PPF for preparation of the project.
-33 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Kyrgyz Urban Transport Project
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $rilion   US SmrilIon  US SmIfflon
A: Civil Works                                            0.00          0.00         0.00
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance - Bishkek          4.47         10.44        14.91
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance - Osh              0.95          2.20         3.15
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance - Jalalabad        0.55          1.29         1.84
B. Goods - Misc. Road Management and Project Management   0.00          0.11         0.11
Equipment
C: Consultant's Services and Training                     0.00          0.00         0.00
Engineering Services (design, construction supervision)  0.00        1.45         1.45
Urban Road Finance Reform                              0.00          0.10         0.10
Environmental Monitoring                               0.00         0.03          0.03
Audit Fees                                             0.00          0.08         0.08
D: Project Preparation Advance.                           0.00          0.30         0.30
E: Project Management (PIU salaries, training, official travel  0.04    0.34         0.38
and communications)
Total Baseline Cost                                       6.01         16.34        22.35
Physical Contingencies                                   0.30          0.70         1.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.24          0.63         0.87
Total Project Costs              6.55         17.67        24.22
Total Financing Required               6.55        17.67         24.22
- 34 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Kyrgyz Urban Transport Project
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present alue of Flows                       Fiscal impact
Economic      Finanbdal Analysise
Analysis    _   __Taxes                          S__ubsMiss
Benefits:                   111.23
Costs:                        4.94
Net Benefits:               111.23
IRR:                           175
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
A cost-benefit analysis was carried out for the road sections included under the first year priority works
program. The road investment component includes three activities: (i) routine and periodic
repairs/maintenance; (ii) rehabilitation; and (iii) reconstruction. A set of maintenance, rehabilitation and
reconstruction strategies were compared using the Highway Design Model (HDM). The priority program
was selected based on the following criteria: Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value
(NPV). The latter was based on a 12% discount rate and 20 years of simulation period. Costs of institution
building activities, such as technical assistance, design, supervision, monitoring and physical contingencies
were incorporated into the investment costs to perform the economic evaluation.
The ERR and the NPV of the priority works are estimated to be in excess of 50% and US$112.0 millions
respectively. ERRs are between 47 % to 54% for reconstruction, and between 33% to 316% for
rehabilitation works. These indicators show clearly that the proposed investments are highly profitable.
Rehabilitation                ERR (%)              NPV, US$ million
Bishkek                       208                  90
Osh                           124                  13.1
Jalalabad                     61                   3.2
Totalprogram                  175                  106.3
- 35 -



Main Assumptions:
Main assumptions, data and economic analysis are briefly described in the following. Ideally, a prioritized
investment program for urban roads in Bishkek, Osh and Jalalabad would be developed from a
comprehensive survey of the traffic and physical road conditions over the entire network under
consideration. However, the scope of the surveys have to be balanced against funds and time available for
data collection, design, and civil works. Given that the bus networks represent the principal paths of travel
demand and in view of financial constraints on survey work, the assessment of alternatives was focused on
the municipal bus route networks in the three project cities. It is expected that these cover their most
important roads.
Routine and Periodic repairs include routine maintenance, pothole repairs, paintings, 2 cm overlays of
asphalt, and single surface dressing treatment on no more than I OOm per km. Routine and periodic repairs
will cover approximately 18 kmns spread over the entire public transport network. The average International
Roughness Index (IRI) on this network was estimated in excess of 6.0, with an averge daily traffic of
20,000 vehicles per day in 1999. Traffic on this network is projected to rise at annual rates varying
between 2% to 5 % upto 2005 and at 5% beyond that. Traffic forecast is based on the projected GDP
growth over 1999-2005 and beyond.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
A worst case sensitivity analysis was performed to determine how much the economic returns would be
affected by a substantial variation of the main factors in the road investment program. The worst case
scenario assumed that there were no passenger time benefits and zero traffic growth. Under these
assumptions, the lowest IRR is 13%, while the average is 132%. It is noted that the lower traffic in the no
growth scenario would result in slower road deterioration and thus lower road roughness in both with and
without cases. These changes have been ignored and the benefits might consequently be slightly overstated,
but given the very high initial benefits it seems unlikely that including these would alter the recommended
program.
- 36 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Kyrgyz Urban Transport Project
Years Ending
December 31
USS million
| Year i    Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4     Year 5| Year 6| Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          5.0       9.3       9.5        0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs         5.1       9.4       9.6       0.1       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             5.1       9.4       9.6       0.1       0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  4.7       8.5       8.7       0.1       0.0      0.0       0.0
Govemment                 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Central               0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-financlers             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Beneficiaries             0.4       0.9       0.9       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Blshkek
US$1.63
OSh
US$0.34
Jalal-Abad
US$9.20
Others                    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    5.1       9.4       9.6        0.1       0.0      0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- All costs net of taxes and duties
- Physical Contingencies of 10%/o on civil works
- Price contingencies at 2.2 % per year
- 37 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Kyrgyz Urban Transport Project
Procurement
General. Procurement of works and technical services financed by the Bank would be conducted in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" of January
1995, revised January 1996, August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Procurement of consulting
services would follow the Bank's Guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" of January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. For procurement under the Loan,
the Borrower would use: (i) the Bank's standard bidding documents for ICB procurement; and (ii) the
Bank's Standard Request for Proposals for Selection of Consultants.
Procurement Responsibility. All procurement under the proposed project is carried out by the Project
Inplementation Unit (PIU) within the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The PITJ has conducted
advance procurement for the first year contracts with the assistance of international consultants financed
under a PHRD grant fund and a PPF. A procurement capacity assessment of the agency was conducted
during project preparation. Based on the findings of this assessment, an action plan (including
recommended procurement arrangements and provision of training and intemational procurement
assistance) was prepared by the Bank. The main objective of this plan is to enhance the implementation
agency capacity in conducting competitive procurement and apply Bank Procurement Guidelines under the
project. The actions under this plan have been agreed upon with the Borrower during appraisal and have
been confirmed at negotiations. According to the Action Plan, the PIU is staffed with a full time
procurement specialist. The responsibilities of the procurement specialist include inter alia: (i) to prepare
and submit to the Bank all procurement documents which require Bank's prior review; (ii) carry out any
procurement action; (iii) prepare and submit to the Bank at the beginning of each calendar year a detailed
procurement schedule; (iv) update the General Procurement Notice and prepare Special Procurement
Notices; (v) ensure that the procuremnent process is conducted based on principles of efficiency, economy
and transparency.
Notification of business opportunities. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published in
Development Business on August 16, 1999, announcing the bidding opportunities under this project and
inviting interested eligible suppliers, contractors and consultants to express interest and request any
additional information from the PIU. The GPN was also published in the local press. In addition, two
requests for expressions of interest for the design and supervision consultants and a special procurement
notice for the first year civil works contracts have also been published in Development Business. The
General Procurement Notice will continue to be updated annually.
Table A and Al provide details of procurement arrangements for main expenditure categories, including
goods and consultants services. Table B provides information on thresholds for prior review and
procurement methods. Table D refers to the capacity assessment of the PIU and technical assistance
requirements. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the main procurement
actions is presented in Table E. The Action Plan to strengthen the PIU procurement capacity is presented in
Table F.
- 38 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
(i) Works
International Competitive Bidding (ICB): would be used to procure works for contracts estimated to cost
US$200,000 or more each.
(u) Goods
International Shopping: would be used to procure road management equipment estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$70,000.
National Shopping: would be used to procure project management equipmnent estimated to cost less than
US$25,000 per contract up to an aggregated amount of US$ 40,000.
(ii) Consulting Services:
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS): would be used for to hire consulting frms to provide
technical assistance and training for contracts estimated to cost more than US$100,000 each.
Selection Based for Consultants Qualifications (CQ): would be used for hiring a consulting finm to
provide technical assistance in environmnental monitoring for a contract amounting to less than
US$100,000.
Least Cost Selection (LCS): would be used to hire an auditing firm.
Individuals would be hired to provide assistance in urban finance up to an aggregate amount of
US$100,000.
(iii) PIU Incremental Operating Costs:
Items for operation of the PIU will be procured in accordance with an agreed budget and schedule.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Proureent Method
Expenditure Category         ICB           NCO          Other2        N.SF       TOtl Cst
1. Works                         21.71         0.00          0.00          0.00        21.71
(19.53)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (19.53)
2. Goods                          0.00          0.00         0.11          0.00         0.11
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.10)       (0.00)       (O.I )
3. Services                       0.00          0.00         1.71          0.00         1.71
(technical assistance and        (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.71)       (0.00)       (1.71)
training)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00          0.00         0.39          0.00         0.39
Operating cost                   (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.35)       (0.00)       (0.35)
5. PPF Repayment                  0.00          0.00         0.30          0.00         0.30
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.30)       (0.00)       (03
Total                         21.71          0.00          2.51         0.00         24.22
(19.53)        (0.00)       (2.46)        (0.00)      (21.99)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 39 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
61011-                                     - met""-
E,tltw.ft"     QCSBC      QBS.     SF6!     LCS        etar              N.H.".  TOW Ctt
A. Fi              1.50     0.00      0.00      0.08     0.03      0.00      0.00      1.61
(1.50)   (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.08)    (0.03)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (1.61)
B. Individuals     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.10      0.00      0.10
_  (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.10)    0.00)     (0.10
Total   1.50     0.00      0.00      0.08     0.03      0.10      0.00      1.71
(1.50)   (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.08)    (0.03)    (0.10)    (0.00)   (1.71)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
-40 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Conatact Value                              Contrew Subjel t X
Thrshold              Prouremet               Prir Review
Expanditure Cateory      (US$ thousands)            Method               (US$ rnml  s)
1. Works                       >200                   ICB               All contracts (21.71)
2. Goods                        <50                     Is                    N/A
<25                    NS            _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _
3. Services                    >100                   QCBS              All contracts above
Firms                                                  LCS                $50,000 (1.58)
<100                    CQ
Individuals              (aggregate US$ 100)        Individuals            All contracts
above $30,000 (0.1)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  23.4 (96%)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
in the first two years of the project. The post-reviews will be I in 5.
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-41 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proposed IDA Credit of US$22.0 million would be disbursed over a period of 4 years. The expected
Closing Date is May 31, 2004.
initial Credit disbursements would be made on basis of traditional disbursements procedures. The
Borrower may choose to substitute traditional disbursement procedures with PMR-based (LACI)
disbursements once the Bank has certified that the project has in place a project financial management
system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the
project (PMR) required by the Bank, and after mutual agreement between the Association and the
Borrower.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expediture Catgory          Amount In US$million         Financing Perceitage
1. Works                                  17.92                        90%
2. Goods                                   0.11              100% of foreign, 100% of local
expenditures ex-factory, and 90% of
local expenditures
3. Consultant's Services including         1.66                        100%
audits, training and studies
4. PIU Operating Costs                     0.35          Declining basis beginning with 100%/o in
the first year; 90% second year and 80%
third year
5. Refunding of Project Preparation        0.30          Amount due pursuant to Section 2.02 (b)
Advance                                                        of the Credit Agreement
5. Unallocated                             1.66
Total Project Costs                       22.00                      _            _ _    _
Total                                     22.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements made on basis on SOEs procedures will be made for contracts of. (i) civil works valued at
less than US$200,000; (ii) goods valued at less than US$100,000; (iii) PIU1s operating costs and contracts
for audits; and (iv) contracts for consultant's services for firms and training valued less than US$50,000
and consultant's services contracts for individuals valued less than US$30,000. Supporting documents will
be maintained by the PIU and made available for review by Bank staff and independent auditors. This
method of disbursement will however be discontinued with the approval and introduction of Project
Management Reports (PMR) based disbursements.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would establish, maintain and operate a Special
Account in US dollars in a commercial bank under conditions acceptable to the Bank. The selection process
-42 -



and criteria for selecting a commercial bank to hold the Special Account would follow the World Bank
standard procedures. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation of the Special Account
would be limited to US$400,000. However, when the aggregate disbursement and sum of all outstanding
special commitments under the Credit have reached the level of SDR 3.0 million, the initial allocation may
be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$800,000 by submitting the relevant application from
withdrawal. Replenishment applications would be submitted at least every three months, and include
reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. The authorized allocation
for the Special Account would be reviewed when PMR-based disbursement procedures are adopted.
The following procedures will be applicable under PMR-based procedures: (i) withdrawals from the Credit
Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account based upon eligible Credit categories
indicated in Table C; (ii) withdrawal applications would be supported by PMIRs and Special Account bank
statements covering the reporting period; (iii) the Quarterly PMRs would be sent to the Bank within 45
days from the end of the preceding quarter, whether or not further advances are required. Format of the
PMRs and timing of reporting was confirmed during Negotiations.
Financial Management (detailed financial management capacity assessment in project file)
Assessment of financial management systems of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Ministry
of Transport and Communications was caiTied out to determine whether the project has in place adequate
financial management systems for project implementation and Credit disbursements in accordance with
OP/PB 10.02 Bank requirements. Overall responsibility for project accounting, reporting, administration of
the Special Account and auditing arrangements will be carried out by the PIU. A time-bound Action Plan to
strengthen the financial management capacity of the PIU was discussed and agreed with the PIU and the
Borrower during preappraisal, and confirmed at negotiations. The Action Plan will be implemented by
December 31, 2000.
Staffing. The PIU currently has a staff of eight, including director, accountant/disbursement officer,
procurement specialist, transport expert, road expert, municipal finance expert, economist and translator.
The municipal finance expert who will work closely with the participating cities and the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) in assisting the municipalities improve revenue generation was recently transferred to the
PIU from the MOF. Although the PIU has some experience in implementing Bank projects through the
PHRD Grant and the PPF, they require additional training in financial management, disbursement
procedures, international accounting and auditing standards. Some staff training will be provided through
the Credit.
Project Accounting and Internal Controls. Existing semi-automated accounting system will be replaced
with a new accounting and financial reporting software. Carana Corporation selected to install the system
has already started the installation process including designing Project Chart of Accounts, related books of
accounts and PMRs. The project accounts will be based on the Chart of Accounts drawn up by the
preappraisal mission, with the assistance of the MOF and the PLU. The Chart will acconmmodate the
proposed project capturing all sources and uses of funds, assets and liabilities in sufficient detail to satisfy
PMR-based reporting requirements. The accounting system will be maintained in accordance with
intemational standards, based on principle of double-entry cash basis of accounting. The Carana
consultants will also train the PIU staff on applications and maintenance of the system. Further training on
accounting, auditing, disbursements and overall financial management will be provided by the Bank.
Internal controls are considered acceptable subject to streamlining documentation flow from the
-43 -



participating cities to the PIU to avoid delays in Credit disbursement, and documenting operational
procedures and guidelines for project financial management in a Financial Management and Operational
Manual. The draft Manual has been submitted to the Bank for comments and will be updated and finalized
by the consultants installing the accounting and financial management system, incorporation accounting
and operational procedures for such system.
Financial Reporting. The format and frequency of submission of Quarterly Project Management Reports
(PMRs) was discussed and agreed with the Borrower and the PIU during the appraisal and confirmed at
negotiations. The PMRs which link project expenditures with actual physical progress made by the Project
will be generated from the integrated computerized financial management and monitoring system and
submitted to the Bank. These reports will include: (i) financial report summanizing sources of project
financing and project expenditures, disbursement, and forecast project expenditures; (ii) reconciliation of
the Special Account; (iii) project progress report comprising output monitoring and summary of project
progress; and (iv) procurement management report on status of procurement and contract management. A
fixed asset register will be maintained and updated regularly by the PLU.
Auditing Arrangements, Accounting and Auditing Standards. Three short-listed auditing firms have
submitted proposals for the audit of the Project. The independent auditors selected will sign a three year
contract for the duration of the Project. The accounting and auditing standards applicable in the Kyrgyz
Republic are based on Tax Law, and are not fully in compliance with international standards. The Kyrgyz
Republic is in the process of converting the national standards to international standards. The Bank
informed the PIU of Bank requirements on maintaining accounts and records in accordance with
International Accounting Standards (IAS) and conducting audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (ISA). Auditors selected are required to be members of the International Federation of
Accountants (IFAC), and if local auditors also be affiliated with the 'big five' international auditing firms.
The PIU will be responsible for auditing arrangements. Audit report with accompanying certified copies of
financial statements will be submitted to the Association not later than six months after the end of each year
audited. Audit arnangements and applicable standards confirmed at negotiations.
Readiness for Implementation and Risks. The PIU has shown great commitment to ensure a satisfactory
financial management system will be in place before project start. They have already hired an accountant,
municipal finance specialist, and have started the installation of an accounting and financial management
system. Also, the PIUJ has prepared draft Accounting Procedures and Financial Management Manual, and
are in the process of selecting independent auditors for the Project. The Bank project team will work closely
with the PIU to mitigate any delays in the implementation of the financial management action plan
summarized below.
- 44 -



Table D: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and
Technical Assistance Requirements
Brief Statement
A capacity assessment of the Borrower was conducted during pre appraisal. The procurement unit of the Borrower, established
for the purpose of this project, has no public procurement experience and limited experience with Bank procurement.
Therefore, an action plan was prepared to enable the Borrower to conduct procurement under the project in accordance with
Bank procurement procedures. This plan includes: (i) hiring competitively a local specialist to conduct procurement under the
project (by March 2000); (i) hiring an international procurement specialist experienced in Bank financed procurement (July
2000); (ii) defining the composition of the tendering committee by negotiations; (iii) training selected staff in the PIU in Bank
procurement (June-July 2000); (iii) use of Bank standard bidding documents under the project; and (iv) organizing a project
launch workshop immediately after loan approval (September 2000).
Country Procurement Assessment Report, was not yet conducted.  Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions frO
However, Kyrgyz Republic has a public procurement systemn and  thefirst yeor r-ay by negotiations:
standard bidding documents prepared under a Bank IDF grant.
Yes.
TRAnuNc INFORMATION AMN DEVELOPMENT ON PROCUREMENT
Estimated Date of  Date ofpublication of  Indicate if there is     Domestic      Domestic Preferencefor
Project Launch     General Procurement    procurement subject to   Preference    Works, if applicable:
WorArs2op0         Notice: August 16, 1999  mandatory SPN in      for Goods:     Yes
Development Business:
Yes, for hiring the      Yes.
supervision consultants.
Retroactive Financing: Yes                                         Advance Procurement:
Explain: First year construction contracts to be pre financed by Government  Yes for the first year contracts.
until effectiveness.
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
All project documentation which requires prior review will be cleared by a PAS and the relevant technical staff. A
procurement consultant will assist the Government in monitoring the procurement process and building up in house
experience. Procurement information will be collected and recorded by the Borrower and submitted to the Bank as part of
quarterly progress reports prepared by the PIt. This information would include: (a) revised cost estimates for individual
contracts; (b) revised timing of procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract award and completion time for
individual contracts; and (c) compliance with aggregate limits on specific methods of procurement.
Cofinancing: Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing: N/A
PROCUREMENT STAFFING
Indicate name of Procurement Staffor Bank's staffpart of Task Team responsiblefor the procurement in the Project:
Name: Irina Luca Extension: 87092
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: The Field Office will provide support to the project team during
project implementation.
-45 -



Table E: Procurement Plan
2.      3.     4.      5.                              6. Estimated dates
Description   Tye    No. of   Est.  Procure   Pre-     Bidding                           Contract    Contract
Con-    cost   meat     qual    Doements      1.  Invitatlon      Signing     Completlon
tracts  USS    method   Ifi-  1. Draft to      2.  Opening
mn             catl   Bank            3.   Evaluadton
on   2. BankNo            and
Objection            Rclonmenda-
don.
_______         ____________     4.  Award
WORKS
Contract       CW        1     2.60    ICB     N/A   1.   10.03.00   1.   16.03.00(SPN)  23.06.00    15.11.00
Bishkek                                              2.  16.03.00    2.  28.04.00
(year 1)                                                             3.  12.05.00
4.  29.05.00
Contract Osh   CW        1     0.87    ICB     N/A   3.  10.03.00    5.  16.03.00(SPN)   23.06.00    15.11.00
(year 1)                                             4.  16.03.00    6.  28.04.00
7.  12.05.00
______                                         8.  29.05.00
ContractJalal  CW        1     0.57    ICB     N/A   5.  10.03.00    9.  16.03.00(SPN)   23.06.00    15.11.00
Abad (year 1)                                        6.  16.03.00    10. 28.04.00
11. 12.05.00
_____    _______         _____________    ~~~12.  29.05.00
Contract       CW        1     6.78    ICB     N/A   1.  01.12.00    1.  01.01.01        15.04.01    31.10.01
Bishkek                                              2.  15.12.00    2.  20.02.01
(year 2)                                                             3.  10.03.01
4.  01.04.01
Cntract Osh    CW        1     2.60    ICB     N/A   3.  01.12.00    5.  01.01.01        15.04.01    31.10.01
(year 2)                                             4.  15.12.00    6.  20.02.01
7.  10.03.01
______   _______                         ~~~ ~~~~~~8.  01.04.01
Conutct Jalal  CW        1     1.45    ICB     N/A   5.  01.12.00    9.  01.01.01        15.04.01    31.10.01
Abad (year 2)                                        6.  15.12.00    10. 20.02.01
11. 10.03.01
12. 01.04.01
Contract       CW        1     6.84    ICB     N/A   1.  01.12.01    1.  01.01.02        15.04.02    31.10.02
Bishkek                                              2.  15.12.01    2.  20.02.02
(year 3)                                                             3.  10.03.02
4.  01.04.02
GOODS
Road           G         2     0.07     IS     N/A   N/A             As needed
management
Office         G         2     0.04    NS      N/A   N/A             As needed
management
eauiipm ett   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___                         _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _
-46 -



1                2      3     4      5                                       6
CONSULTANTS                                          1. RFP to the  1.  Issue RFP       Contract    Contract
Bank           2.   Submission      Signing    Completion
2. Bank no     3.  Technical ev.
objection      4.   Financial ev.
5.  Contract
I _                  negotiations
Supervision,     CS      I    1.50   QCBS     N/A    1. 10.02.00    1.  20.03.00       05.07.00    01.06.03
design, training                                    2.17.03.00      2.  19.04.00
and procurement                                                     3.  25.04.00
4.  17.05.00
5.  29.05.00
Environmental    CS    1      0.03   CQ       N/A   TORs to the     Contrct to the
monitoring                                          Bank            Bank:
June 30, 2000  August 15,2000
Auditor          CS    1      0.08   LC       N/A   1.21.04.00.     1.  26.05.00       15.08.00    01.06.04
2. 25.04.00    2.   26.06.00
3.  08.07.00
4.  27.07.00
5.  06.08.00
Technical        CS      I    0.1    Other                          Initiate July 10, 2000  15.09.00
assistance in
municipal finance
Project                       0.39
Management -
Operational cost
(PIt])
PPF repayment                 0.30
TOTAL                         24.22
CW=Civil Works, G=Goods, IS=International Shopping, CS=Consultancy Services, QCBS=Quality and Cost Based Selection, LS= lease
cost selection, Other =-Individuals, TA=Technical Assistance, TR=Training
-47 -



Table F: Procurement Action Plan
ACTION                                                 DUE DATE
PIU to hire competitively a local consultant with experience in  By appraisal (March
Bank procurement.                                      2000)
PIU to define the composition of the Tendering Committee  April 2000
decide on procedures, flow of documents and signatory powers.
Technical assistance in procurement during project     Process was launched
implementation by an intemational consulting company; an  (issue of proposals -
expatriate procurement specialist (PS) would be assigned to  mid March). Expected
assist the Borrower in implementing procurement activities for  date for the
the project. The PS shall have experience with World Bank  assignment to start-
procurement procedures and practices.                  mid July.
The latest version of the Bank standard/sample bidding  Hard copies and
documents shall be used:                               electronic versions of
For purchasing Goods:                                 these documents to be
* Standard Bidding Document: Procurement of goods dated  made available to the
January 1995; Corrigendum #1 of October 6/96 on Fraud  Borrower by the
and Corruption; and Corrigendum # 2 of January 1/99 on  Procurement specialist
the EURO;                                           in charge of the project
* Standard Bid Evaluation Form of January 1/96.        and by the Resident
For civil works:                                       Mission.
* Standard Bidding Document for the Procurement of Works,
January 1995 revised January 1999 and corrigendum # 4.
* Standard Bidding Document for Procurement of Works,
smaller contracts, of January 1995; Corrigendum #2 Oct. 6
1996 on Fraud and Corruption, Corrigendum on Euro of
Jan. 1, 1999 and Corrigendum # 3 of Oct. 21 1999 on
domestic preference.
* Standard Bid Evaluation Form of January 1/96.
For hiring Consultants:
* Standard Request for Proposals, Selection of Consultants,
July 1997, revised April 1998 and July 1999;
* Sample form of evaluation report for Selection of
Consultants of October 1999
Procurement staff to be further trained by attending formal  September 2000
training in Bank procurement organized by the Bank or by ILO.
Bank to organize a project-launching workshop to provide  September 2000
additional procurement knowledge about Bank procurement
procedures tailored to the specific needs of the project.
Bank assistance and advice in procurement during project  Procurement person in
implementation                                         charge of the project
and the Resident
-48 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Kyrgyz Urban Trnsport Project
Piojt SchedLe                                    pWainni      .              Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     18                          24,
First Bank mission (identification)            03/25/98                    03/25/98
Appraisal mission departure                    03/06/2000                  03/06/2000
Negotiations                                   05/18/2000                  06/26/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  09/15/2000
Prepared by:
Kavita Sethi
Preparation assistance:
Lorraine McCann Kosinski
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       SpeclaUity
Richard C. Podolske              Sr. Operations Officer
Kavita Sethi                     Transport Economist
Irina Luca                       Procurement Specialist
Njeri Muhoho                     Financial AnalysttFinancial Management Officer
Hiran Herat                      Financial Management Specialist
Laffy McCartney                  Engineer
Zoe Kolovou                      Lawyer
Hannah Koilpillai                Disbursement Officer
-49 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Kyrgyz Urban Transport Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
D. Assessment of the Project Financial Management System
E. Environmental Management Plan
F. CIE Reports on Urban Passsenger Transport Reform
G. Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick Reports on First Year Construction Program
H. Letters from Government on Commitments to Urban Road Finance Reform and Counterpart
Financing
*Including electronic files
- 50 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Kyrgyz Urban Transport Project
Dlflerence between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions       disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                    Purpose                                  IBRD      IDA      Cancel.   Undiab.     Orig   Frm Revd
KG-PE48589    1999 GOVT. OF KYRGYZ         SOCIAL SEC. ADJUST.                             0.00     36.50     0.00      17.87     -.40      0.00
KG-PE62882    1999 REPUBUC                 FLOOD EMERGENCY                                 0.00     10.00      0.00     9.42       1.01      0.00
KG-PE-44585   1999 KYRGYZ REPUBUC          RURAL FINANCE 11                                0.00     15.00      0.00     14.85      0.00     0.00
KG-PE-40721   1998 GOVERNMENT OF KYRGYZ    AGRIC. SUPPORT. SERV                            0.00     14.98      0.00     14.03      1.16      0.00
KG-PE-46042   199  GOVT. OF KYRGYZ         IRRIGATION REHAB.                               0.00     35.00      0.00     31.12     -1.00      0.00
KG-PE-8520    1997 REPUBUC                 RURAL FINANCE                                   0.00     16.00      0.00      3.68     4.18      0.00
KG-PE-45631   199  GOVT. OF THE KYRGYZ     FINANCIAL SEC. TECH.                            0.00      3.40      0.00     1.51       1.58     0.00
KG-PE-8513    1998 REPUB                   SHEEP & WOOL IMPROV.                            0.00     11.80      0.00     6.50       2.06      0.00
KG-PE.8519    1998 KYRGYZ REPUBUC          POWER & DIST. HEAT                              0.00     35.00      0.00     30.72     12.39     20.56
KG-PE-8523    1996 THE KYRGYZ REPUBUC      HEALTH                                          0.00     18.50      0.00      4.70      1.34      0.00
KG-PE-8524    1995 GOVT OF KYRGYZ          PRPV. ENTERP. SUPP.                             0.00     15.00      0.00     12.86     12.67      0.00
GOVT. OF KYRGYZ
REPUBLIC
GOV'T OF KYRGYZ
REPUBLIC
GOVT OF KYRGHYZSTAN
Total:       0.00     210.98       0.00     147.26     23.92    20.58



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1995               Kwntor Gold                   25.00    10.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    10.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        25.00   10.00    0.00     0.00   25.00   10.00     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitnent:         0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
- 52 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Kyrgyz Urban Transport Project
Euroe :                                                   9122199
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                  Kvrovs     C.ntral     Low.
Reaubile       Asim   Income       Development dlamond
1995
PoDulation. mid-vear imillonsi                          4 7       473      3 515                 Lire expectsncy
GNP DPt capota (Atise method USSI                       360      2.190      520
GNP WADis nemlhod. USS b,ilionsi                        1.7      1 039     1.U44
Averase annual arowth 1902.98
Poouitalion I%i                                         0 7        0.1       17
Labof torce 1%I                                         I I        0 a       1.9     GNP                               Grosa
Most recent estImat Ibtast veer available. 1992e981                                  per              N             .-1rimarn
Povertv ri%, of opulation Delow national oovertv fillel  51
Urban poDulation l1 of torsl ooDuielfoni                 40        BB         31
Lil exoeclancv at birth vestCal                          67        89        63
Intfnt mortstiltv lor 1 000 UIve bhitha)                 29        23        89
Child malnutrition IS of chdrdmn under Si                1 I                                   Acress to saFe *ate,
Accesas ro saf water it. oJ coaulaltJnll                 76                   74
lHiterev f% of ooD,.ulson aoo 151a 97                               a         32
Gross orNmayv *nrolimnet f% of sechoo-aos oovulailonl   104       100       108                   Kyrgyz Reprbilc
Male                                                  106       101       113                  Lo P.V .lCom=te tgouP
Famale                                                103        99       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS End LONG-TERM TRENDS
1375     1950       1997      1398
Economic ralloo
GDP (USS biionsl                                                  1 8       1 6
Gross domestic Investnent/GDP                                     21 7      10 0
Exoorts of coOtt and sericeaslGDP                                 38 3      37.0
Gross domestic savinoslGDP                                        13 B      10.9
Gross national asvinoaiGDP                                        13 9     .12..
Current account bstaincelGODP                                     .7 a     -22.8
Interest DavmantalGOP                                              37        4 4        mSic                  - 
Total deDbODP                                                     81 9      96.9     Savings                      investment
Total debt servicaaxDorts                                         12.0      18 8
Present alue of dabtIGDP                                         37 6
Presant value of debUexoons                                       U6 a
Indaebtecness
1370-2S  1957-26     10,t1      1308   1a-3as
leversos ennde orowthli
GDP                                            7.2      99         1 8       20               K   Kyrgyz Republic
GNP osr capiSD                                 8 7      a 7       -2 0       2 0                   Los-income rou
Exoonr of ooods arkd services                 15 2     20 1      . 1 5       20
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     losS       1997      190S      Growth rates of output end Investment (%t)
(18 of GDPI
Aoricuiture                                                       44.8      43.6     40
Industr                                         ..       ..       22.8      21.6     20 .
Manufacturlno                                                   17.9      18.9      0                       _
Services                                         ..      ..       32.6      34.9    -20
Private consumption                              ..      ..       69.9      93.6    -40
General oovernment consumDtion                                    16.3      17.3     .GDI                    -,GDP
imoorts of ooods and services                                     46.2      58.0     L                                  ----
1076-86  1987-98       199T7     1998
(sversoo annual orrowth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Aoriculture                                                        7.0       6.0     40
Industr                                         ..       ..        5.0       5.0     20
Manufacturina                                  .
Services                                                          20.2      -2.8
02   3    04    gs   ye    0
Private consumotlon                             ..        .
Generai oovernment consumption                   .0
Gross domestic Investment                        .        .          .
ImDorts of coods and services                                     11.7      27.7             -   rExpots          Imparts
Gross nationsl oroduct
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in boldt comoared with its Income-orouo avers. If date sta misinas  the diamond wiii
be incomolete.
- 53 -



Kvrevz ReDublic
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1886      1997     1998      Inflation (Ik)
Domestic pric s
(% change)                                                                       1.200
Consumer prices                                                 14.7     18.4      oo 
Implicit GOP deflator                                          19.3       8.5     s00
Government finance                                                                300
(% of GDP, Includes current grants)                                                 o
Current revenue                                                 15.8     18.1              S3   94    S5   '5    D7
Current budget balance                                          -5.2     -3.4              -   GDP deflator  -CPI
Overall surplusldeficlt (accrual)                              -g.o     -10.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1976     19t6      1997     1998      Export and Import levels (USS milliona)
Total exports (fob)                                             631      535     1000
Electric energy                                                83        268
Gold and gold products                                        185       192      750
Manufactures                                                  204       181
Total imports (elf)                                             725      870       wo        *         A
Food                                                           87        89      250
Fuel and energy                                               200       207
Capital goods                                                 123       173       o0       _    _         _    _
Exnort orice index 11995=100                   .        .        97       94           s2   03   sFt  ss   or   s7   sa
imoort orice index (1995=1001                                    97       94               dE,port#      MlnIport.
Termn nf trade (1995=1001                                       inn      inn
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USSmillionst                               1978     1986      1997     1998      Currant account balance to ODP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               e76                          598  o      mm   m    a
Imports of goods and services                                   817      936
Resource balance                                               -141      -338      5
Net Income                                                      -85      -78      10
Net current transfers                                             s 68    50
Current account balance                                        -138     -365
Financing items (net)                                           221      359                             i 0
Changes in net reserves                                         43         6     -25
41emo:
Reserves Includino oold tUSS millions)        ..       ..       200      194
Conversion rate (DEC. IocallUSSI              ..
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1970     19o6      1997     1098
IUSS millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1098 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                          1.444     1.565
IBRD                                         .        .         0        0                        G:15
iDA                                                           267      333           F: 15
Total debt service                                               81      112           F:359  .-
IBtRD                                                           0        0
IDA                                                             2        2 2  2         /
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                C 1ao
Official grants                                                65       48
OMficial creditors                                            172      225
Private creditors                                               8       -26
Foreign direct investment                                      83      102            E: 40S  -
Portfolio equity                                               25       26                              D: 2r5
World Bank program
Commitments                                                    60      102      A - lsRD                   E - sitateraI
Disbursements                                                  66       66      B - IDA  D - Other muSlitaral  F - Privata
Principal repayments                                            0        0      C IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                                      Be6..  86  66
Interest payments                                               2        2
Net transfers                                                           e8  6
Development Economics                                                                                              9/22199
-54 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
TfO"5M                 l   S 1V
m~adDacosres1uA1ES pn.Am          p4w 1Veiq                         own
C   of.                                                                              nvii CO"
of                           Bbliqk                              !                   t Cer
C   m                      B         k            Odl 0~  -.       On          d   Oe i
uuPdos     bA Caw_ Pu-ut*R            t Wp ^u            Ws      RqO F  qu*W RqP-t Cczt
Eadmin      Cd      1m&  of CrdtObigibi  RSft    Obl0b    ftz    Obiplcm Fi mRhiF   ObIk   Fuv
FbtYe    _Cc,donCorta           450   4.00      0.50  182      4.00    0.50    0.00     0.O0    0.0     0.0      0.00     0.00
FstYewCmucn Ca       Odi         1.12  1.00      0.12   4.5    o.0o     0OO     1.00     0.12    0.00    000      0.00     0.00
FgtYew Catndmx CaMBIJai          0.79  0.70      OD    3 2     0.00    0.00    0.00    0D       0.70    0.0      .00      0.00
Sewnd &lHd You C    a*d
ca tffc                         11.85  1054      131   479     10.54    1.31   0o00      0.00    0.00    oLo0     0.00    0oo
& &m    *d Yew Cawkxan
Coruc Dih                        225    Z00      025    9.1    .OD0     0.00    20       025     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Sood & TlMd Yerw Cuaru
C        aftt JeW,6b&d           1.12  1.00      0.12   4.5     om0  oo  oD 0m          o0       100     0.12     0.00     0.00
B*,*S       OAm "D(dqd
sewid & ti*d ywmS c,buim
apweri)                          1.B0   1o0     o.00    82      0.00    oo0     0m      o.o0     o0m Q000         1.B0     0.00
PI*ed hfnm-lt(PIUsel
b*ig, dM  vve wtd                039    035      0.04   1.6    0.00     0.0     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.35     004
PbtedMweg--tEcAi-t               0.11  0.10     0.01    0.5    0.0      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00 o   010     0.01
LhM=RoW unR,snxRobm              0.10   010      0.00   o5     o0       ooo     o        o 0.00  0.00  00  0.00    1        .oo0
Sib*orviu,~ Fwb*xig              0.03  0.03      o.oo   0.1    0.00     0.00    0.0      0.D     0.00    0.00     003      0.00
hdutft                          D0     0.06 000        0.4     0.00    0oo     o        om      0.00    0.00     008      0.00
PPF PAnut                        030    030      0.00   1.4     Q00     o.00    am       ooo     oo      0.00     0.30     0.00
TOTAL       -24                        22.00     244  100      1454     1J1     320      0.37    1.70    021       276     0.06
] Patd n ugmerto s bebus   d an adsb rh iv mb urt b    9D%
MoIbandPi tComb
Pf*   d CodUwsbvbt                 _m*     %am mom
CRY         $"*    %Sun             21.6     SU5  Rod RjbWo&Mhkw
BIu*k        1635    669            1B0      7.4  P        n*d8ig   P9*psudCauibIISuonS)
Csh          337     138              2   . 2.5 PRujedMUWrwt&Audr
Jbad         1.1     7.8            0.10     0.4  UbinRoDdFiioe Rsbm
COm"GoAt     282     11.5           030      1.2  PPF R   iert
TcO          24.44   100.0          24.44   100.0 TdO
- 55-



Td)bZ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
oBd  ChrWt   ot    0r3 t  COit  Qu"     Oa    Qrkl*  TdOui Qarbt TcdoQ
ffftld(plok      40D    QBD   5S4    aef   5W     0B     QX0   ODD    1454   18)   1634
09,RM*           1m01   Q12   200    QZ    am     0oW   GO     OQ     3SO    037   337
AlAbad Fbds;     070   GOD     1W    012  OQ      OW     OW     OW    1.70   021   191
Soles; sm*0 a8)         Om    OfO    OD    04D    am3   OQ      am    1B     GOD  1D
Pc W mert        010    01     010   WI    010    001   OQC     OD1   03     Q04   03
Ak6EtM1u         006    Q0    OW     01     OW    03     am     OW     010   00    Q11
MtRsE%I*wit      OW     ODI  QOW        O   OD    (ND    00a    OW 0QX 10   Q0m    010
UbEnPadFbvm94    001    GM 0ac 01    OD     am1   OO    OQm     Oo    003    ODD   OL
ErgarwW Wokc OD    Om     (NP    Om    0(2    0W    0am    OWO    OM    OJO    0(3
t                 0.102  OQ am ao2    Qm       aa   D    OW    ODD     Gas QB 0    OB
P:FIbWiert       Q30    QC0o  QcD    Qm     00    w am      a o Q  m   Q30   aO    Q30
TOM              7DB    073    937   iB     553   063    O7     QO1   2?m    244   4A44
FIWRCD IT;IIO7 N t       R   I N lEAlN 70
Sxdad
FiYew   ThidYew  Kamcf   Ekadr                   TckRzb
TdEi                 Cd      Cele    F1c;     I;bbe      EniEbdTcil61K FWa;lsa
Rld LUaod S&aod Eq3s11z Bprdkzm Rdiad        Red   ni,   dtaibbe    Pitdk
Sbn    Pod    Pa    cnFac  aiFciakn inFYew Sarudll       REI   Lkdl  Sixd RAedal
CRY     K      K               rro   Snh    fafted YesofteAgt      A*         SWm
Bst*    73D    8)     6D     4.0D    1054     199        4          723       11.1%
Osh     32D    ffi    25     iLlD    200      39        7.8        11.7       4eYa
aAbad   3D     1O)    Z3D    070     1.10     53        83         136        59%
Tci     13)    245    1135   5.7     1364     2.1      686          97.7     8ao
- 56 -



Table 4:
MUNICIPAL BUDGETS AND ROAD EXPENDITURES (in million Sam unlss otherwise specfled)
1998       1999    2000 (est)
Bishkek
Own Revenues                                               221.7      293.0       378.3
Republican Transfers                                       314.8      309.8       299.4
Other Sources
Total Expenditures                                         536.5      602.8       677.7
Amount Spent on Roads from Budget                            4.7       13.6        31.0
Amount Spent on Roads from National Road Fund                0.0       10.0         6.0
Amount Spend on Roads from Other Sources                            --               -
Total Spent on Roads                                         4.7       23.6        37.0
Estimated Population                                    1100000    1100000      1100000
Estimated Expenditure Per Capita from Own Budget (Som)        4         12           28
Estimated Expenditure Per Capita from all Sources (Som)       4         21          34
Kilometers of Paved Roads                                   650        650          650
Estimated Expenditure Per Km from Own Budget (Som)         7231      20923       47692
Estimated Expenditure Per Km from all Sources (Som)         7231     36308        56923
Osh
Own Revenues                                                25.2       40.5        44.7
Republican Transfers                                        53.8       48.5        44.6
Other Sources                                                 --        3.6         0.0
Total Expenditures                                          79.0       92.6        89.3
Amount Spent on Roads from Budget                            0.6        0.8           ?
Amount Spent on Roads from National Road Fund                0.0        0.0         5.0
Amount Spend on Roads from Other Sources                     0.0        0.2           ?
Total Spent on Roads                                         0.6        1.0         5.0
Estimated Population                                      350000    350000       350000
Estimated Expenditure Per Capita from Own Budget (Som)        2          2            ?
Estimated Expenditure Per Capita from all Sources (Som)       2          3           14
Kilometers of Paved Roads                                    255       255          255
Estimated Expenditure Per Km from Own Budget (Som)         2353       3216            ?
Estimated Expenditure Per Km from all Sources (Som)        2353       4000        19608
Jalal-Abad
Own Revenues                                                18.0       24.7        24.2
Republican Transfers                                        15.2       13.0        18.4
Other Sources
Total Expenditures                                          33.2       37.7        42.6
Amount Spent on Roads from Budget                            0.7        0.5           ?
Amount Spent on Roads from National Road Fund                0.0        0.0         3.5
Amount Spent on Roads from Other Sources                      --         -            --
Total Spent on Roads                                         0.7        0.3         3.5
Estimated Population (urbanized area)                     120000    120000       120000
Estimated Expenditure Per Capita from Own Budget (Som)        6          4            ?
Estimated Expenditure Per Capita from all Sources (Som)       6          3           29
Kilometers of Paved Roads                                    230       230          230
Estimated Expenditure Per Km from Own Budget (Som)          3043      2174            ?
Estimated Expenditure Per Km from all Sources (Som)         3043      1304        15217
- 57 -



Tabe 5:
KYRGYZ URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ON4LENDING TERMS AND CONDITKNS AS PROPOSED BY THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC GOVERN1MENT
Annual
Prncipal +
Annual   Average Annual   Interest
Intrnest on Prindpal + Interest Payments in
Yerws              Foregn   Amount of   Full   Assuming Level   Equivalnt
Years to Grace on  Intere   Exdhwe      Credt   Prncipal Payments After 5 Soms (million
Credts                          Repay   Principal  Rate      Risk     (S mhs)    (S)    Years Grace(S)     Som)
Central
IDA Credit the KyvK z Republic   40        10     0.75%   Govemrnment  22.00   165,000     815,833         40.8
On-lendng tob Blmjc               15       5      1.00%     Bish*ek    14.54   145,400     1,526,700       76.3
On4endng to Osh                   20       5      1.00%      Osh        3.00    30,000      215,000        10.8
On-lending to JalalaWbd           20       5      1.00%    JablaAbad    1.70    17,000      121,833         6.1
Total On-Leding b CIties                          1.00%      CIies     19.24   192,400     1,863,533       93.2
Table 6:
KYRGYZ URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
INDICATIVE DESIRABLE ANNUAL ROAD MAINTENANCE BUDGETS IN RELATION TO EXISTING BUDGETS
Indicative                                            Indicative
Annual      1999 City                              Deisrable Annual
Maintenance Expenditures                 1999 Road     Maintenance
Kilometers   Budget    on Roads from  City Budget  Expenditure as  Budget in
Total kilometers  Unpaved    of Paved  (mlns Som)   City Budget   1999 (Mlns  % of 1999 City Relation to 1999
City   of Roads (Km)     Roads       Roads        El       (mins Som)      Som)         Budget       City Budget
Bishkek        730           80          650        32.5         13.6         602.8         2.3%          5.4%
Osh            320           65          255        12.8          0.8          92.6         0.9%          13.8%
Jaialabad      330           100         230        11.5          0.5          37.7         1.3%          30.5%
r] Assumed $1,000 or 50,000 Som per kilometer
- 58 -



fl~ ~ ~ ~ }  g 9 8   sf 
II      ffU.. ooc  .



Table 12:
NATIONAL ROAD FUND REVENUES AND ALLOCATIONS (Millions Som)
1998     1999     2000
Total Road Fund Income (Som Millions)                       197       374      687
Allocated to Bishkek (Som Millions)                          0        10       1.5
Allocated to Osh (Som Millions)                              0         0        5
Allocated to Jalal-Abad (Som Millions)                       0         0       3.5
Total Allocated to Three Cities (Som Millions)               0        10        10
Percent of Total Allocated to 3 Cities                      0.0%     2.7%     1.5%
Amount to be allocated if 10% goes to cities (Som Millions)  19.7    37.4      68.7
Kilometers of Roads in Kyrgyz Republic (km)                37500     37500    37500
Expenditures per Kilometer (Som)                            5253     9973     18320
Expenditures per Kilometer($)                               105       199      366
National Road Fund Sources and Applications (Millions Som)
Fuel Tax                                                    105       207      270
Vehicle Registration Tax                                     100      91       113
Vehicle Tax                                                  5         7       81
Road Tax (collected Mostly From businesses)                 128       166      190
Total                                                       338       471      653
Amount of Road Fund Collected from Bishkek                  211       346      428
Amount of Road Fund Collected from Osh                       15       14       27
Amount of Road Fund Collected from Jalal-Abad                7        12        16
Total Collected from Project Cities                         233       372      471
Percent of Road Fund Revenues Collected from Project Cities  69%     79%       72%
Total Road Fund Amount Collected                            338       471      653
Total Road Fund Amount Disbursed                            197       374      687
Disbursed as % of Collected                                 58%      79%      105%
- 60 -



Table 13:
KYRGYZ ROAD FUND STATISTICS
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF NATIONAL ROAD FUND BY YEAR
1998       1999     2000
Som (mins) Som (mins) Som (mins)
Road Fund Expenditures               197.3      374.0     687.0
Road Fund Revenues:                  1998       1999      2000
Fuel Tax                          104.6      207.4     270.0
Vehicle Registration Tax           99.8      91.1      112.6
Vehicle Tax                         5.4       6.7       80.9
Road Tax (collected from
businesses)                          127.9      165.5     189.5
Total Income                       337.7     470.7     653.0
Expenditures as % of Revenues        58.4%     79.5%     105.2%
ROAD FUND REVENUE SHARES BY YEAR
1998                 1999                2000
Som (mins)     %     Som (mins)   %      Som (mins)    %
Fuel Tax                             104.6     31.0%      207.4    44.1%      270.0     41.3%
Vehile Registration Tax               99.8     29.6%      91.1     19.4%      112.6     17.2%
Vehicle Tax                           5.4       1.6%       6.7      1.4%       80.9     12.4%
Road Tax (collected from businesses)  127.9    37.9%      165.5    35.2%      189.5     29.0%
Total Income                         337.7     100.0%     470.7    100.0%     653.0     100.0%
ROAD FUND REVENUES GENERATED BY PROJECT CITIES
1998       1999      2000
Som (mins) Som (mlns) Som (mlns)
Bishkek                              210.5      346.0     428.1
Osh                                   14.6      14.1      26.7
Ja_al-Abad                            6.9       11.9      16.2
Total 3 Cities                       232.0      372.0     471.0
3 Cities Contribution to Total Road Fund
Revenue                              68.7%     79.0%     72.1%
Bishkek Contribution to Total Road Fund
Revenue                              62.3%     73.5%     65.6%
-61 -



KYRGYZ NATIONAL ROAD FUND SOURCES
300.0..               .            '    '
250.0
200.0
100
.2
100.0
50.0
0.0
Fuel Tax        Vehide Registration Tax  Vehide Tax      Road Tax (collected from
businesses)
Source
-62 -



Estimated Revenue Sources of Road Fund in Year 2000
Road Tax (collected
from businesses)
29%
Fuel Tax
42%
Vehicle Tax
12%
Vehicle Registration
Tax
17%
- 63 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Urban Passenger Transport Action Plan
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Kyrgyz Urban Transport Project
GOVERNMENT OF
THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Bishkek city, GOVERNMENT HOUSE
of October 17, 1999 1 630
On Improvement of Urban Passenger Transport Operation
The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic notes that the existing system of public transport requires radical changes
of organization principles of the urban passenger transport operation, creation of a new sustainable system which
meets the needs of the citizens of the Cities and corresponds to the market economy conditions.
With the purpose of the implementation of the urban passenger transport system reform the Government of the
Kyrgyz Republic orders:
I .    To approve the Final Report of the company CIE Consult on the Project of Improvement of Urban
Passenger Transport Services in the Kyrgyz Republic.
2.     To confirm (attached):
- the National Policy of the Urban Passenger Transport
- the Action Plan on implementation of the Urban Passenger Transport Project in the Kyrgyz Republic.
3.     The Mayorate of Bishkek City, Osh and JaW-Abad City Administrations:
a) to establish the Units on Urban Passenger Transport Project Advancement by November 15, 1999 making them
responsible for the Project implementation;
b) to create the Passenger Transport Agencies (PTAs) and vest them with the absolute power of forming the route
network for passenger transportation in the Cities (opening of the new routes and change of the existing ones)
and allocation of routes on the basis of franchises awarded to the winners of the open tenders;
c) along with the Ministry of Finance to settle the issue of financing of PTAs,
d) for the purpose of the increase in fare collection volume on the urban passenger transport:
- to introduce the ticketing system of payment for travel;
- to abolish the unified tariff and introduce the different fare on the public transport depending on a distance
of trip;
- to introduce the separate travelling tickets (depending on mode of the vehicles), as well as the unified one for
all modes of the transport.
4.     The Executive Agency on implementation of the Urban Passenger Transport Project in the Kyrgyz
Republic (the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Kyrgyz Republic):
- 64 -



- to develop, if required, the necessary Standard Regulations, Recommendation Notes and other documents in
accordance with the Legislation of the Kyrgyz Republic and submit thern for approval of the Co-ordinating
Comnittee on the Urban Passenger- Transport Project Advancement established by the order of the
Government of tilt: Kyrgyz Republic of May 18, 1998, N222-p,
- to co-ordinate the operation of the Units on the Urban Passenger Transport Project Advancement and
provide them with necessary methodical support
5.     The Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic and the Ministry of Labour and Social .Defence of the
Kyrgyz Republic along with the Ministry of Transport and Cormunications of the Kyrgyz Republic, the Mayorate
of Bishkek City, Osh and Jalal-Abad City Administrations:
- to reconsider the categories of passengers having privileges for travel on the public transport for the purpose
of their reduction and submit them for consideration of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic according to
the confirmed Action Plan-,
- to develop and bring into effect from the year 2001 a system of address payment of special money
compensations for travel on the urban public transport to the persons having the right to fare privileges and,
if necessary, to submit the proposals on alteration of the Legislation in force for consideration of the
Government of the Kyrgyz Republic.
6.     The Ministry of Labour and Social Defence of the Kyrgyz Republic in accordance with the present
Resolution to make alterations to the Regulation "On Procedure for Granting of Fare Privileges on Passenger
Transport of General Us* to Individual Categories of Citizens" confirmed by the order of the Minister of Labour
and Social Defence of April 26, 1999 N41 and registered at the Ministry of Justic6 of the Kyrgyz Republic of May
13, 1999, N39.
7.     The Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic:
a) by March 1, 2000, to submit for consideration of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic the Draft Normative
Legal Acts providing for making alterations and additions to the prevailing norms regarding the Taxation of the
urban passenger transport sector tale into account the need:
- to reduce tariffs for the settlenent of the social problems;
- to reduce transportation costs for the increase of investment potential of the urban transport which ensures
timely and qualitative repairs of vehicles and infrastructure, safe transportation of passengers,
- to exclude discrinination of the state and private operators with regard to tax issues;
b) by December 1, 1999 to specify the terms and conditions of recrediting of the World Bank credit to Bishikek.
Osh and Jalal-Abad Cities, as well as submit proposals on the schedule of the credit repayment.
8.     The State Committee on Foreign Investments and Economic Development to study, along with the World
Bank, a question of obtaining the grants for reformation of the urban passenger transport sector and identification
of the sources of finance of the urban roads repairs and maintenance.
9.     To charge the First Vice-Prime Minister, the Chairman of Co-ordinating Conmmittee on the Urban
Passenger Transport Project Advancement Silaev B. 1. with a control over the fulfillment of the present
Resolution.
Prime-Minister, A. Muraliev
- 65 -






70O                                                                                                              80    
This mop eas produced by the                                                           KAZAK         STAN
Map Design Unit of The World Bonk.                                                     KAZ      KS     TAN                          ,
The boundaries, colors, denominations
and anyother information shownon
this mop do nolt imply, on the part of                           To Almaly                                        T_ 46. 5          n
The World Bank Group, any judgment   rcz                I
on the legal status of                      to Ta,az  -  t;                  i  ----
any endorsement or :- r.; * J .  *   _             -a  I                oV  _           -                    :
such boundaries.                                _                                       r  \
<r_  ; ^\    ~~~~~T ALAS ;                        =      -                            KAU L         - 9m 
TALAS A
-r   JALAL-ABAD                                                     ,
\_ ~ -p _>gKara jjL  _     .   J N AR Y N  Nrs-
J          L       J   )   -h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ih K.n'YT           =     1-- 
UZBEKISTAN                                      'N-*;,  ..9,  ,-  /  -_.
J#               4/   S j r   -        .  _ _   w ,   . ...... 1 
--  -  -- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~a o-  O
\ C ---d @ - r v* 94s v=\ 1^ < > t, j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~C H I N A
,j  0,4                                     -j;-+--       \--/ t      n     (   '-5'           *u1KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
O S H                                                               URBAN TRANSPORT
\ -2_-_-__* ....... __ ,b- ,                             PROJECT
To Dushonbe        ~               -                                                         -. _  _  _  t-~j J  _  - tLiliA N  PROJECT CITIES
-.:  re            T. ?ArWb            /I          K :.  A K H :. -                  - N-' ' '  RAILROADS
.S         '~r-~~               --       I   .                MAIN ROADS
-\                   *.jl.e  / r--           __  __ OTHER ROADS
TAJIKISTAN                                      'l                                                     6    NATIONALCAPITAL
KILOMETERS                                                               0    OBLAST CAPITALS
0      50    100    150        ISLAMIC> ': \   .                                      SELECTED CITIES
3:                 025 50                      75 100 REP. OF                                  C H I N A       ----    OBLAST BOUNDARIES
N<                                         MILES                    5 AFGHANISTAN                               - ---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
o           70'                                                                                                                             in



