                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                     Report No: 34619

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         (IDA-34100 PPFI-Q1850 TF-25289 TF-53730)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.7 MILLION (US$22.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                                   KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

                                         FOR A

                         KYRGYZ URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT




                                      June 23, 2006




Infrastructure Department
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective )

                             Currency Unit = Som
                                    1 Som = US$ 0.02
                                    US$ 1 = 40.85 Som

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 -   December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CRD    City Road Department
ECA    Europe and Central Asia
ERR    Economic Rate of Return
GDP    Gross Deomestic Product
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IMF    International Monetary Fund
MoEF   Ministry of Economy and Finance
MoF    Ministry of Finance
MoTC   Ministry of Transport and Communications
NGO    Non-Governmental Organization
NPV    Net Present Value
NRF    National Road Fund
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PHRD   Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIU    Project Implementation Unit
PPF    Project Preparation Fund
PPU    Project Preparation Unit
PTAs   Passenger Transport Agencies
QAG    Quality Assurance Group
WG     Working Group




                            Vice President:   Shiego Katsu, ECAVP
                   Acting Country Director    Annette Dixon, ECAVP
                           Sector Manager     Motoo Konishi, ECSIE
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Henry Kerali, ECSIE

                                        KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                    Kyrgyz Urban Transport Project


                                              CONTENTS




                                                                                   Page No.
     1. Project Data                                                                    1
     2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
     3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
     4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
     5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
     6. Sustainability                                                                  8
     7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
     8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
     9. Partner Comments                                                              12
     10. Additional Information                                                       12
     Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             13
     Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             14
     Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
     Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             18
     Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             20
     Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                21
     Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            22
     Annex 8: Borrower's Contribution                                                 23
Map: IBRD 30895

Project ID: P050719                                                  Project Name: Kyrgyz Urban Transport Project
Team Leader: Henry G. Kerali                                         TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 23, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Kyrgyz Urban Transport Project                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-34100; PPFI-Q1850;
                                                                                                     TF-25289; TF-53730
   Country/Department: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                                    Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (99%); Sub-national government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Municipal finance (P); Access to urban services and housing (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/27/1999                                     Effective: 09/15/2000                11/17/2000
     Appraisal: 04/26/2000                                         MTR:                             11/20/2002
      Approval: 08/22/2000                                      Closing: 05/31/2004                 11/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          KYRGYZ REPUBLIC/MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND
                                           COMMUNICATIONS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Annette Dixon                                  Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager:                 Motoo Konishi                                  Eva Molnar
Team Leader at ICR:             Henry Kerali                                   Richard C. Podolske
ICR Primary Author:             Jacques Yenny (Consultant)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context: Urban road infrastructure and urban public transport services deteriorated markedly in the
Kyrgyz Republic after the collapse of the Soviet Union. The lack of routine maintenance and deteriorating
drainage resulted in worsening road surface and pavement conditions, with many streets requiring
rehabilitation or even reconstruction. Similarly, the lack of investment in the fleet of publicly owned
transport companies led to severe reductions in their output. In Bishkek, the impact of lack of resources
was particularly severe. The peak supply of large buses fell from over 600 buses in the early 1990's to
about 35 in 2000.

In 1996, the Kyrgyz Government approached the Bank for assistance with urban transport infrastructure
and services. The Bank was initially reluctant to engage in this area, but after further insistence from the
Government, it agreed to launch a study on transport sector needs in the country. Trust fund financing was
obtained; the study was completed by the end of 1997 and was followed up by Bank sector work in 1998.
It was then decided to prepare an urban transport project for Bank financing and a Policy and Human
Resources Development Fund (PHRD) grant was obtained. Consultants started work in 1999, studying
both transport infrastructure and services. At the time, it appeared that the Japanese Government would
finance road improvements and that the Bank project would concentrate on urban transport services. By
1999, public transport had become almost defunct and the private sector was providing ever increasing
services with minibuses. The Bank had to reconsider options for the project. Assisting public sector urban
transport services had been pursued in other Europe and Central Asia (ECA) countries with mixed results.
Some operating efficiencies were achieved and cost recovery improved but not enough to dispense with
continued Government subsidies. Financing private sector operators would have been risky given the
fragile nature of financial systems. Also, progress had already been made during project preparation in
facilitating private sector operations in the project cities without the need for Bank financing. Therefore, it
was decided to focus on road rehabilitation and maintenance, with some assistance to urban passenger
services reforms to be provided through additional grant funds, rather than through the project. The project
objectives were thus set as follows:

The ultimate project objective was to provide sustainable, reliable, and affordable access to mobility for the
populations of the cities of Bishkek, Osh, and Jalalabad. The project will initiate actions in this direction
by:

       (i)   restoring selected urban roads to acceptable service standards; and
       (ii)  taking the first steps to develop a reliable source of financing for urban roads maintenance and
             rehabilitation.

Besides enhancing municipal road finances ((ii) above), the project also had the objective to address the
following issues: (a) separating road planning, budgeting and contract administration from road
construction; (b) divesting of all road construction entities from city management and financial control in
the three cities; and (c) supporting the ongoing reform process in public transport.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Project investments were directed at the three principal Kyrgyz cities of Bishkek (the capital), Osh, and
Jalalabad, which have estimated populations of 1 million, 450 thousand, and 100 thousand persons,
respectively.   The population of these cities combined accounts for about one third of the national



                                                      - 2 -

population of the Kyrgyz Republic, (which was estimated at approximately 4.5 million in 2005), and the
economies of these cities likely account for at least half of the total national Gross Domestic Product
(GDP). Bishkek is located on the north-central frontier close to the Kazakhstan border. Osh and Jalalabad
lie close to each other on the west-central frontier near the border with Uzbekistan. Project components
and costs are as follows:

Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Priority Sections of Urban Streets in the Country's three Major
Cities US$21.75 million

The component included:
    (a) in Bishkek, rehabilitation of 72 km of roads and maintenance US$16.5 million;
    (b) in Osh, rehabilitation of 14 km of pavements and maintenance US$3.4 million; and
    (c) in Jalalabad, rehabilitation of 12 km of pavement, 3km of overlay and 1.5 km of reconstruction
        US$1.9 million.

Consultant Services and Training US$1.9 million

    (a) engineering design and construction supervision;
    (b) a municipal road finance study; and
    (c) a passenger transport reform study in Bishkek, to be financed under a grant.

PIU Operating Costs US$0.8 million

This component included US$0.3 million for repayment of funds advanced under the PPF for preparation
of the project.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
In 2001, the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) panel rated this project as marginally satisfactory overall,
with the greatest weight given for this rating for concept, objectives and approach. The panel felt that the
project objectives were not sufficiently ambitious given the considerable efforts made over the previous five
years to work on the various issues of urban transport infrastructure and services. It was felt also that the
project design did not provide strong linkages with the policy agenda, i.e. establishing sustainable road
finance in the three cities, divesting road construction staff and equipment in these cities and franchising
urban passenger services. The panel also deplored that some initially contemplated conditions were later
dropped and replaced by dated covenants to establish and implement satisfactory action plans to address
these issues. The region appealed the rating on the ground that the situation of urban transport services had
changed significantly during the lengthy preparation period and that the project scope had to be adapted
accordingly, but QAG did not change its rating.

Quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory by the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the
following reasons:

1. Consistency with CAS/Government Commitment and Participation in Preparation. The project
was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed at the Board on May 7, 1998. The
Bank objectives were to sustain growth, reduce poverty, improve governance and strengthen public
finances. Sustaining growth was to be done through the removal of policy and regulatory impediments to
private sector activity and reducing poverty through specific investments in basic social services including
public transportation. The project is fully consistent with the Bank's strategy. The project supported



                                                     - 3 -

privatization of road works construction and promoted the opening up of multi-operator provision of public
transport services. Investments in the badly deteriorated urban road networks would reduce the cost of
urban mobility (in particular the operating costs of private transport operators) and to facilitate access to
employment and basic services. The Government actively sought the Bank's assistance and was fully
committed to the project. A Project Preparation Unit (PPU) was set up in August 1998 and was very
proactive under the guidance of the Coordination Committee created in May 1998 with high ranking
official of various ministries and the three cities.

2. Readiness for Implementation. After the rather lengthy preparation, there was some impatience and
pressure to get some works started in 2000. The preparation study had only done pre-feasibility and
preliminary designs for the project roads and further consultant work was needed prior to bidding. The
Government agreed to request a Project Preparation Fund advance (PPF) in order to speed up final
preparation. Despite the best efforts by all parties, contractors could not take full advantage of the year
2000 construction season and fell short of completing the work that had been planned for that year.

3. Risk Assessment. The QAG panel recognized the pertinence of the risks listed in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD), but felt that the risk ratings were underestimated. For instance, only a modest risk was
assigned to the possible lack of counterpart funds from the municipalities, which eventually affected the
project. The PAD recognized neither the risk of not meeting the timetable for the preparation of various
action plans (less than 3 months after signature) nor that of the successful implementation of such plans.

4. Safeguard Policies. The project was assessed as environmental category B, as it did not involve road
widening or realignment, therefore neither land acquisition nor resettlement were needed. An environmental
management plan was prepared to minimize the impact of construction noise and dust and ensure that
sediments from drain cleaning would be disposed of in an environmentally acceptable manner.                  A
participatory approach was followed throughout project preparation. The PPU organized discussions with
municipalities, ministries, transport operators and users as well as private contractors in each of the project
cities. A social assessment including potential stakeholders was carried out by a local Non-Governmental
Organization (NGO) as part of project preparation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Restoring Selected Urban Roads to Acceptable Service Standards: This objective was successfully
achieved as the roughness of the roads (a measure of the quality of pavement) decreased substantially upon
completion of the civil works financed under the project. This part of the objective has been fully met.

Taking the First Steps to Develop a Reliable Source of Financing for Urban Roads Maintenance and
Rehabilitation: Developing a reliable source of financing for urban roads has been difficult given the lack
of financial resources of the cities as well as of the central Government. Nevertheless, the matter has been
studied and debated throughout the project implementation period. A Working Group (WG) was formed
early on, under the direction of the Ministry of Finance and including representatives of the project cities
and other Government officials. Because of the heavy debt of the country, the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) recommended spending cutbacks to ensure better fiscal performance for 2001. Therefore, the WG
did not meet in 2000 and could not prepare the action plan by the covenanted date of December 31, 2000.
The WG made some progress in 2001 by issuing an action plan and holding several seminars on the matter
in the project cities. However, it was not clear how the plan could actually be implemented due to the lack
of fiscal resources and progress stalled again in 2002. In 2003, the WG prepared detailed financing plans
based on road inventories financed by the project. The plans included various funding scenarios for each
city and indicated that the cities should spend between 4% and 10% of their budgets on road maintenance.



                                                      - 4 -

Such levels of expenditures would require massive increases from previous budgets, 100% for Bishkek,
60% for Osh and a 50-fold increase for Jalalabad. Laudable efforts were made in Bishkek and Osh to
increase road maintenance allocations from their city budgets, and they reached 4.6% and 4% respectively
in 2005. In Bishkek, allocations now fully cover routine maintenance and a part of periodic maintenance.
In Jalalabad, however, allocations remain at 2% of the city budget and cover less than 20% of routine
maintenance needs.

At the latest workshop, organized in November 2005 by the Ministry of Finance, the following
recommendations were approved:

    (i) establish urban road funds for urban roads financing, with a separate line in the municipal budgets
          and indication of sources of funding including: parking, vehicle owners' tax, and National Road
          Fund (NRF) allocations;
    (ii) have City Councils adopt five year City Roads Development and Maintenance Program, with
          priority given to the maintainable roads, based on the developed strategies for financing (affordable
          strategies);
    (iii) increase private vehicle owner's tax by 3 times;
    (iv) implement the statutory financing of city roads from the NRF (10% of the NRF) , based on city
          population and revenues collected by the cities for the NRF; and
    (v) establish an inter-departmental commission formed by representatives from MoEF, MoTC, the
          State Tax Inspectorate, and city mayors to review the resources of the NRF line with expected
          changes to the Tax Code, and ensure that funds from the NRF are used specifically for roads.

Since the workshop participants realized that the recommendations above have national importance and
require attention at all levels of Government, they proposed to raise them to city councils, the Government
and the Parliament for discussion. The process is ongoing. Since the objective was to "take the first steps
to develop reliable city road financing" this part of the objective has been met.

Separating Road Planning, Budgeting and Contract Administration from Road Construction: Under
the centrally planned economy, a single city agency provided all works and services. In the road sector,
this agency planned and executed all the works by force account. By the time the Bank got involved, the
situation had evolved toward a more transparent "client-contractor" relationship and toward increasing
competition for the provision of services. In January 2000, the three cities established separate City Road
Departments (CRDs) charged with the road planning and management role envisioned under the project.
The original CRDs were staffed by four staff members charged with the responsibility of planning,
budgeting, and managing roads within the municipality. At the end of the Project (December 2005) the
CRD in Bishkek was staffed by 18 members, which was considered adequate for the tasks being performed
by the Department. Urban road network inventories, including road conditions and traffic surveys have
been completed for the three project cities by a local consultant, with the assistance of an international
consultant. These inventories were used to prepare the road financing plans referred to above. Office and
laboratory equipment, training on road maintenance management, and field trips were procured under the
project to support the institutional development of the CRDs. This part of the objective has been met.

Divesting of all Road Construction Entities in the Three Cities: According to the dated covenant each
city was to submit a plan for divestment of all capital construction equipment and staff by December 31,
2000 and implement the plan by July 1, 2001. Concurrent with the creation of the CRDs, all road
construction functions including asphalt plants and road construction equipment were to be divested from
city management and financial control. The separation of the management and implementation functions
has been completed and construction equipment and staff are no longer directly under the municipalities.



                                                      - 5 -

While routine maintenance is still performed by force account (by rayon combinats), steps have been taken
to sell off major pieces of construction equipment. Periodic maintenance and capital construction is now
performed by private sector contractors. Bishkek decided to retain ownership of its new Japanese financed
asphalt plant as the contracting industry is still very unstable, with great variation in work orders from year
to year, and could not use and maintain the plant efficiently. Although the covenant could not be fully met,
the decision by the Bishkek Mayor to keep the asphalt plant for the time being is reasonable. This part of
the objective is partially met.

Supporting the Ongoing Reform Process in Public Transport: The urban passenger transport industry
has changed dramatically since the inception of the project. From a public sector operating full size buses
and trolley buses, the system is now dominated by private mini-bus operators. In Bishkek, about 84% of
all passenger transport trips are provided by the private sector with a fleet of some 2,900 vehicles. The
three cities have established Passenger Transport Agencies (PTA) to plan, contract and monitor the private
provision of services. The improvement of major streets under the project and the high frequency of service
provided by the private operators have contributed to improving overall public transport services to the
public. These services are self-financing with a consequent reduction in subsidies required from the
Government. Although the situation has improved, it does not mean that it is problem free. The PTAs,
with the assistance of a consultant financed under a PHRD grant, which completed its work in November
2005, have identified a series of issues and submitted recommendations for addressing them.
Recommendations cover: changes and amendments in the route tendering and contracting procedures;
improvements in future route network planning to increase vehicle utilization rates; putting in place a
procedure to objectively review public transport tariffs annually and trigger automatic tariff adjustments
whenever key inputs such as fuel prices increase; and either compensate private operators for the travel
privileges of certain categories of passengers or monetize the grants so that passengers can pay their fare
directly to the operators. Implementation of the recommendations will continue beyond the closing date of
the project. This part of the objective has been met.

Key Performance Indicators: Only two of the Key Performance Indicators were in terms of measurable
quantities. The number of km of streets improved and the reduction in road roughness following the
improvements. In both cases the results exceeded the targets. The other indicators were in terms of action
plans being prepared and implemented both for road infrastructure and urban passenger transport. The
plans were prepared, albeit with substantial delays from the covenanted dates and implementation is only
partial for the reasons already given above. Details are in Annex 1. Because of the delays in preparing and
implementing the various plans specified in the Credit Agreement, some of the covenants were only
partially met. On the basis of the above evaluation of the project objectives and performance indicators,
the overall rating for objective achievement is satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Priority Sections of Urban Streets: Works on Phase 1 contracts
started in mid-2000 in all three cities. Progress was slower than anticipated and contracts had to be
completed in 2001. Contractor performance in Bishkek was poor and about one third of its work had to be
redone. This was only the second Bank project with substantial infrastructure in the Kyrgyz Republic.
The slow and uneven pace and quality of construction was largely due to the selection of marginal
contractors, but problems were also due to the inexperience of the borrower. These related to a lack of
understanding of the relationship between the employer of the contractors (the cities) and the consulting
engineer managing the works on behalf of the cities. These problems were eventually resolved and quality
improved. Works on subsequent phases also proceeded at a slower pace than planned and the closing date
was extended by one year. The extension also allowed the use of project cost savings for the rehabilitation
of 2 additional streets in Bishkek. A second six month extension was not related to civil works but to the



                                                      - 6 -

completion of technical assistance to the PTA (see below). During the course of the project, the Ministry
of Transport and Communications requested the Bank to permit local contractors to participate in the
project for routine road maintenance.          The Bank agreed and the Credit Agreement was modified
accordingly to permit national competitive bidding. This followed a prior modification to allow domestic
preference for civil works bidders. The overall condition of the streets in the three cities has improved and
the output of this component is satisfactory.

Consultant Services and Training: As mentioned above, there were some tensions between the
supervising consultant and the borrowers. As works took longer than estimated, an extension to the
supervision contract had to be negotiated. The client and the foreign consultant could not agree on terms
for an extension and the PIU awarded the supervision contract to a local consultant from April 2003. The
performance of both consultants was generally satisfactory.

The PAD included a study of municipal road finance. Actually, the working group on urban road finance
retained the services of an international consultant for the preparation of the action plan that was the object
of a dated covenant. The Bank also organized a number of workshops and seminars on the subject at the
national level and in the three cities, the last one in November 2005.

The passenger transport reforms supported under the project have helped establish passenger transport
agencies and significantly increased the private provision of transport services. A technical assistance
grant was approved in March 2004 to help Bishkek PTA to further advance the planning and regulation of
urban passenger services. Grant signing and consultant selection were delayed requiring the second project
extension. The consultant completed its work by the end of 2005 and recommendations will be gradually
implemented beyond the project closing date. The output of this component is satisfactory.

PIU Operating Costs: The PIU, within the Ministry of Transport and Communications, was in fact a
continuation of the PPU and there was a smooth transition from project preparation to project
implementation.    It was adequately staffed and kept good contact and rapport with the three cities,
providing guidance and assistance as needed. Overall, the outputs of the project are rated as satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An ex-post economic analysis has been carried out by the PIU based on updated road roughness surveys
and traffic counts on rehabilitated streets. The net present value and (Economic Rate of Return) ERR of
the project has been re-calculated using the Highway Design Model that was used at appraisal and
evaluations are therefore directly comparable.        As a result of traffic growth and the large reduction in
surface roughness following the rehabilitation and maintenance works, the ERRs and (Net Present Value)
NPVs at 12% are substantially higher than estimated at appraisal, thereby confirming the effectiveness of
the investments.

       Cities                     Appraisal Estimates                       Estimates with the Project
                             ERR (%)             NPV (US$ Million)         ERR (%)        NPV (US$ Million)
Bishkek                         262                     92.3                272.6                443.8
Osh                            185.5                    16.4                185.3                 57.4
Jalalabad                      116.5                    5.9                 119.7                 19.4
Total Program                   223                    114.6                 224                 520.6



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable




                                                        - 7 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had significant institutional development impact. The three cities have set up City Road
Departments (CRD) responsible for planning and management of their transport infrastructure. Equipment
and training to the CRDs was provided by the project. Part of the road construction functions were
divested to private contractors and opportunities were given to them under the project for routine
maintenance works. On the transport service side, the cities established Passenger Transport Authorities
(PTA) to plan, manage and regulate services provided by the private sector. Further details on these
developments were given in section 3.2.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Except for the remaining effects of the disruption to the economy that followed the break up of the Soviet
Union, which resulted in increased poverty, particularly in the cities, there were no factors outside the
control of Government. The increased poverty in the cities affected their fiscal resources and the amounts
that they could provide for the maintenance of their infrastructure, including streets, and for public
transport services.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Rapid increases in borrowing during the project period made it difficult for the Ministry of Finance to
allocate enough counterpart funds to all the projects.        In particular, the local Governments, which
according to the statutes of the Road Fund were supposed to get 10% of the fund revenues, got less than
half their allocation as the money was used as counterpart funds for national road projects.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PIU together with the 3 cities made a good effort to implement the objectives of the project despite
their financial situation.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The final project cost, US$24.3 million, is equal to the estimated cost of US$24.2 million. Civil works
were less costly than expected. A total of 105 km of streets were improved versus 98 km planned (+7%) at
a cost that was 95% of the estimate. Supervision and other soft components cost more than planned.
Details are in Annex 2. Although counterpart funds required were less than 10% of total costs, they still
posed a problem, given the difficult financial situation of the cities. Payments were often in arrears but
were usually made up by the end of the fiscal years. Because construction took in general longer than
anticipated due to problems of the contractors, delays in counterpart financing did not affect their
performance further.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Road condition inventories were completed in each city and scenarios developed for various levels of
resources. In the high level seminar held in November 2005, each city finalized its road financing strategy
and pledged to implement it. Successful implementation will depend on the speed of development and
economic growth of each city, which is a necessary condition for improving the fiscal resources of the cities
in a sustainable way. Efforts to increase budgetary allocations to roads have been partially successful in
Bishkek and Osh, but not in Jalalabad. On the institutional side, the CRDs and PTAs have been set up and
working for a few years and are now well established.




                                                     - 8 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
City streets as well as urban transport services were always in operation. Traffic was rerouted in a few
cases during reconstruction of street sections.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank assistance in preparation is rated satisfactory. As mentioned in section 3.1, the Bank was reluctant to
get involved in the urban transport sector of the Kyrgyz Republic when requested by the Government in
1996 and project preparation, preceded by studies and sector work, was lengthy. In 1999, the task
manager changed shortly before appraisal. By that time, public urban transport services had massively
deteriorated, the private sector had taken over, and the public procurement of buses was no longer feasible.
The new task manager suggested modifying the focus of the project and the Government agreed. Although
this decision was criticized by QAG, there appeared to be no other solution. In any case the project
continued to assist institutional reforms in the urban transport services area, as explained above. As
pointed out by QAG, it would have been desirable to keep conditions regarding the establishment and
implementation of action plans up front, rather than replacing them by dated covenants. However, this
would have been unrealistic after the lengthy preparation period, and the only alternative would have been
to cancel the project. The project concept was based on a solid piece of sector work and the urgent need of
the cities to salvage their transport infrastructure before further damage, while pursuing the dialogue on
reforms in urban transport infrastructure and services initiated through the project preparation.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision is rated satisfactory. There were on average two supervision missions per year and the staff
consistently pressed the Government and the cities to prepare the agreed action plans. A number of
seminars and workshops were held to explain the need for reform in providing urban transport
infrastructure and services. The Bank used its good offices to obtain grant funds for studies and technical
assistance to develop these action plans. The team showed flexibility by amending the procurement
conditions, allowing domestic preference in bidding for civil works and in allowing domestic bidding for
maintenance works, thus helping the nascent construction industry. The Task Team Leader changed once
during execution, two years before project completion.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government was keenly interested in the project as manifested by the early establishment of a high
level Working Group under the direction of the Ministry of Finance (Mof) and of a project preparation unit
in the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MoTC), which continued as a project implementation
unit. Because of the inexperience with bidding procedures (all works had been done by force account in the
old regime) there were some hesitations about proper procedures, which required coaching by Bank staff.
In 1999, the Government agreed to redirect the focus of the project from urban passenger transport services
to that of improving the condition of the streets.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government through its PIU remained directly involved in the project. Because the Government



                                                     - 9 -

needed counterpart funds for large national road projects, the cities never received the share of the road
fund (10% of the fund revenues) which was supposed to accrue to local Governments for local roads. This
made it that much harder for them to contribute to the project as well as plan for their future maintenance
of their networks.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The cities did their best under the circumstances to live up to their commitments. They realized that the
needs were beyond their financial capacity and that making plans which could not be implemented had little
merit. After a good start, supported by technical assistance and workshops, plan making drifted during the
middle years of project implementation. Covenanted deadlines were pushed back. Activity restarted
toward the end of the project and adequate plans were finalized and presented at a high-level workshop just
before the project closing date. Pledges were made regarding implementation, which has a chance of
success, at least in two of the three cities, if the economic situation remains favorable.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance is rated satisfactory, despite the delays in completing the project and missing
many of the deadlines set in the loan covenants.

8. Lessons Learned

After a lengthy project preparation period it became apparent to the Bank project team and Kyrgyz
Government officials that a project focusing on financing urban buses was not appropriate, given the rapid
provision of mini-buses by the private sector, and that an alternative project focusing on urban road
rehabilitation and maintenance would better serve the citizens of the project cities. The project scope was
accordingly radically changed and, in response to considerable Government impatience, a relatively
straightforward project was prepared. In the end, the project made a good contribution to infrastructure
rehabilitation and maintenance as well as to institution development in urban transport. The lesson learned
here is that it is important to be flexible and to adjust a project design in response to changing
conditions on the ground, even if it means making substantial changes late in the preparation process (or
for that matter after a project is formally approved.) A project focusing on financing urban buses would
most likely have failed. The alternative of dropping the project after so lengthy a preparation period might
have damaged relations with the country.

Regarding procurement of civil works, the project team faced a choice between a "safe and quick"
approach where the road rehabilitation and maintenance component was designed and supervised by a team
of foreign consultants hired by the Transport Ministry and implemented by foreign contractors, and the
more risky institution building approach of placing the principal program design and construction
supervision responsibilities with the project cities and utilizing smaller contract packaging to provide
opportunities for the nascent construction industry emerging in the private sector. The former approach was
retained here, with the original Development Credit Agreement making no special allowance for local
contractors to participate directly in bidding for the works. The project team was of the view that given the
inexperience of cities and contractors with competitive procurement this "safe" approach was preferable,
with a gradual devolution of responsibilities to local consultants and contractors as they gained experience.
Upon a subsequent request by the Government, the Bank agreed to modify the credit agreement to allow
domestic preference for larger contracts and national bidding for maintenance. Supervision of the work
was eventually taken over by a local consultant but still under contract with the Ministry of Transport, not
the city Governments. While the project helped strengthen the Bishkek City Road Department and to a
more limited extent the local consultant and construction industry, it is debatable whether a greater
involvement of the city road departments and local construction industry in the program design and delivery



                                                        - 10 -

could have produced significantly greater capacity enhancement and long term development impact,
without jeopardizing project delivery. The important lesson here is the need to carefully consider the
trade offs between ensuring successful physical implementation of a project through reliance on foreign
expertise and the desire to achieve significant capacity building of local institutions (both public and
private) over the medium term.

Considerable efforts were made prior to project inception and throughout the project implementation period
to improve with adequate finance the sustainability of investments in the urban road network. In spite of
these efforts, and some progress being made, the long term adequacy of funding to sustain the urban road
network remains in doubt. In retrospect, the lesson learned is that fundamental policy reforms [in this
case reform of urban road finance] require significantly more preparation at entry.             It could be
questioned whether a project focusing solely on urban road rehabilitation and maintenance, without an
explicit urban finance improvement component could ever have fully addressed the sustainability
dimension. Urban road rehabilitation and maintenance cannot be divorced from overall urban finance,
national road finance, and the macroeconomic condition of the country. (Perhaps the Working Group on
Road Finance should have spent much more time working directly with key city level decision makers).

Under the project, the cities had agreed to divest their entire road construction entities. While this effort
was partially successful during the project implementation period, and the cities have contracted out most
road rehabilitation and some road maintenance to the private sector, not all equipment was divested, most
notably the large asphalt plant in Bishkek. In retrospect the decision of Bishkek not to privatize this plant
was probably correct, taking into account the lack of stable funding for the road construction and the
nascent status of the private sector construction industry. Thus, the lesson regarding privatization of
public sector assets would be the importance of conducting a careful assessment of the capability of the
private sector to assimilate these public sector assets taking into account current market conditions.

Pavement design became an issue during project implementation due to the widespread presence of
pavement cracking soon after certain road sections were rehabilitated. While some of the pavement
cracking was unavoidable due to "reflective cracking" from pavements below, a wider issue is the design of
the pavement overlay thickness taking into account road maintenance practices in a particular country.
While it is common to frequently maintain pavement surfaces in many countries, certain countries -- such
as the Kyrgyz Republic -- for limited budget reasons may not be able to maintain pavements on as regular
a basis. Under these conditions, an important lesson to be learned would be to design pavement overlays
somewhat thicker to avoid rapid deterioration of the pavement surface prior to the next likely
maintenance cycle, in countries where regular road maintenance activities remain uncertain.




                                                   - 11 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower's comments are in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

    Henry Kerali (Lead Transport Specialist)
    Jacques Yenny (Consultant)
    Antti Talvitie (Peer Reviewer - ECSIE)
    Lorraine McCann Kosinski (Program Assistant)

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the project in chronological order:

    (i) Henry Kerali/Navaid Qureshi
    (ii) Kavita Sethi/Richard Podolske




                                                 - 12 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Reduction in average road roughness (IRI)       IRI reduced to 4.0 or less on all completed    IRI ranging between 2.0 and 3.5
along rehabilitated project road links          road links
(surrogate for reduction in vehicle operating
costs)
City road finance improvement action plans      Implementation of action plans well advanced Action plans approved November 2005
(a) completed, and (b) implemented
Number of surface transit vehicles (full size   TBD                                           3,000
equivalents - FSE) operating daily and                                                        206,000
passengers carried daily in Bishkek
(surrogate for public transport accessibility)




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Length of Project city roads rehabilitated (km) 98 kms rehabilitated                          103 km rehabilitated
Road inventory & functional classification      Road inventories, functionalclassification &  done
systems completed & maintenance                 road maintenance systems developed
management systems installed in project
cities
Increased role of the private sector through    $21.7 million worth of competitively bid road $21.7 million worth of competitively bid road
competitively bid projects; increased           rehabilitation & maintenance contracts        rehabilitation & maintenance contracts
opportunity for local private sector operators  awarded                                       awarded and completed; of which $740,000
                                                                                              worth of maintenance contracts were
                                                                                              awarded to and completed by local
                                                                                              contractors.
Urban transport reform action plans (a)         Reform implementation program well            Recommendations to improve PTA given by
finalized, and (b) implemented                  advanced                                      consultants in 2005 and to be implemented.

1 End of project




                                                                  - 13 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal   Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
                      Component                             US$ million  US$ million
A: Civil Works                                                 0.00
    Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance - Bishkek             14.91         15.30          102.6
    Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance - Osh                  3.15           3.45         109.5
    Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance - Jalalabad            1.84           1.89         102.7
B. Goods - Misc. Road Management and Project                   0.11           0.05          45.5
Management Equipment
C: Consultant's Services and Training                          0.00           0.00
    Engineering Services (design, construction supervision)    1.45           2.61           180

    Urban Road Finance Reform                                  0.10           0.37
    Environmental Monitoring                                   0.03           0.00
    Audit Fees                                                 0.08           0.04
D: Project Preparation Advance.                                0.30           0.23
E: Project Management (PIU salaries, training, official        0.38           0.38
travel and communications)

Total Baseline Cost                                           22.35         24.32
 Physical Contingencies                                        1.00           0.00
 Price Contingencies                                           0.87           0.00
                         Total Project Costs                  24.22         24.32
                           Interest during construction        0.00
                                         Front-end fee         0.00
                  Total Financing Required                    24.22         24.32




                                                  - 14 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                1
                                          Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB                 2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                            Other
1. Works                       21.71          0.00           0.00            0.00         21.71
                              (19.53)         (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)      (19.53)
2. Goods                        0.00          0.00           0.11            0.00         0.11
                               (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.10)           (0.00)      (0.10)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00           1.71            0.00         1.71
(technical assistance and      (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.71)           (0.00)      (1.71)
training)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00           0.39            0.00         0.39
Operating cost                 (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.35)           (0.00)      (0.35)
5. Miscellaneous (PPF           0.00          0.00           0.30            0.00         0.30
Repayment)                     (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.30)           (0.00)      (0.30)
   Total                       21.71          0.00           2.51            0.00         24.22
                              (19.53)         (0.00)        (2.46)           (0.00)      (21.99)




                                           - 15 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                20.64                                0.00             0.00             20.64
                                          (18.57)              ()              (0.00)            (0.00)           (18.57)
   2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.05             0.00              0.05
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              3.02             0.00              3.02
   (technical assistance and              (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.96)            (0.00)           (2.96)
   training)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.38             0.00              0.38
   Operating cost                         (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.38)            (0.00)           (0.38)
   5. Miscellaneous (PPF                   0.00               0.00              0.23             0.00              0.23
   Repayment)                             (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.23)            (0.00)           (0.23)
      Total                                20.64              0.00              3.68             0.00             24.32
                                          (18.57)            (0.00)            (3.57)            (0.00)           (22.14)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Works.                        19.53         2.18         0.00       18.57         2.07       0.00       95.1      95.0      0.0
Goods                          0.10         0.01         0.00        0.00         0.05       0.00        0.0     500.0      0.0
Services                       1.71         0.00         0.00        2.96         0.06       0.00       173.1     0.0       0.0
Miscellaneous                  0.35         0.04         0.00        0.38         0.00       0.00       108.6     0.0       0.0
Miscellaneous                  0.30         0.00         0.00        0.23         0.00       0.00       76.7      0.0       0.0




                                                          - 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

A cost-benefit analysis was carried out for the roads rehabilitated within Phases I and II in the project cities
using the HDM program. The road investment components include (1) periodic repairs (maintenance) and
(2) rehabilitation of sections of the urban public transport roads network. Table 1 gives the values of costs
and benefits for the project components with benefits that are measured in money terms, as estimated in the
PAD (Annex 4)

                                                       Table 1

                                              Present Value of Flows                      Fiscal Impact
                                                Economic Analysis                       Financial Analysis
                                                                                         Taxes Subsidies
       Benefits                                         111.23
       Costs                                             4.94
       Net Benefits                                     111.23
       IRR %                                              175

If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained
by taxed and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial
benefits is less than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs. Internal rates of
return (IRRs) and net present values (NPVs) were re-calculated on the basis of actual incremental costs
and benefits. The benefits included are savings in road user costs due to improved pavement conditions,
road agency savings in future maintenance costs arising from timely rehabilitation, and passenger time cost
savings. Costs of institution building activities, such as technical assistance, design, supervision,
monitoring and physical contingencies were incorporated into the investment costs to perform the economic
evaluation. The NPV is calculated using a 12 % percent discount rate and a 20-year simulation period.
Data input into HDM for analysis are updated, taking into account the traffic density actually measured
and pavement surface roughness indicators of the rehabilitated roads. Calculated economic indicators are
shown in Table 2.
                                                           Table 2

                                    Phase I                       Phase II                 Complete Program
            Road        Inner Rate of Net Present Inner Rate of Net Present Inner Rate of Net Present
       Rehabilitation      Returns         Values          Returns          Values       Returns       Values
                          (IRR), %        (NPV), $        (IRR), %         (NPV), $      (IRR), %     (NPV), $
                                            mln.                             mln.                       mln.
       Bishkek *             262            92.3            275.7            351.5         272.6       443.8
       Osh                  185.5           16.4            185.2            41.0          185.3        57.4
       Jalalabat            116.5            5.9            122.2            13.5          119.7        19.4
       Total                 223            114.6           251              406.0          244        520.6

       * analysis results for city of Bishkek include the additional streets Kievskaya and Frunze.

The IRR and NPV of rehabilitation activities in the three cities are estimated to be substantially
higher than the PAD estimates given in Table 1. These economic indicators show clearly that the
investments are highly effective and profitable.




                                                        - 17 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/20/1999                2    SR. TRANS. ECONOMIST
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
              03/18/1999                2    PRIN. TRANS. ECONOMIST
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
              06/16/1999                5    SR. ENGN. PLANNER, ECON.
                                             PROC. SPECL., MUNICIPAL
                                             ENGINEERING
                                             CONSULTANT
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
              12/08/1999                1    MUNICIPAL ENGN. CONSLT.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/06/2000                6    TEAM LEADER, ECON.,
                                             PROC. SPECL., FIN.
                                             MGNT. SPLST., MUNCPL
                                             ENGN. CONSLT.,
                                             CONSULTANT
              06/26/2000                3    TEAM LEADER, LAWYER,
                                             MUNI. ENGNR.
                                             CONSULTANT

 Supervision
              03/30/2001                2    SR. OPERS. OFFICER               U               S
                                             TRANS. ECONOMIST
              09/14/2001                6    SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER           S               S
                                             CONSULTANT,
                                              SR. TRANS. ECON., SR.
                                             URBAN TRANS.
                                             SPECL.,OPERS. OFFER.,
                                             TRANS. SECTOR MANAGER
              04/25/2002                2    SR. URBAN TRANS SPECL            S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
              11/20/2002                2    SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER           S               S
                                              SR. URBAN TRANS SPECIAL
              06/03/2003                4    TEAM LEADER,                     S               S
                                             HIGH.ENGNR., OPERS.
                                             OFFICER, CONSLT.
              11/21/2003                1    TEAM LEADER                      S               S
              05/12/2004                1    OPERATIONS OFFICER               S               S
              10/23/2004                3    MISSION LEADER                   S               S
                                             URBAN TRANS SPECIALIST
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER

 ICR
              11/28/2005                2     SR.TRANS. SPECIALIST
                                              OPERATIONS OFFICER



                                              - 18 -

The primary reasons for rating the project as a "U" in the 3/30/2001 PSR was (a) the poor construction quality and
delays in Bishkek road works during the previous construction year, (b) serious concerns about the competence of
contractor in Bishkek who was allowed to continue working, and (c) the delay in awarding of new construction
contracts in Osh and Jalal-Abad.      All of these concerns were subsequently addressed and the rating for
implementation progress was raised to an "S" in subsequent PSRs.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      No longer                         611.816
                                    supported by Bank
                                           Information
                                               Systems
  Supervision                                                                  581.382
  ICR                                                                               n/a
  Total                                                                      1,193.198
* Notes:
(i) SAP no longer gives detailed breakdown for ICR.
(ii) The above figures exclude an additional US$224,765.80 received from Trust Funds to support Lending
(Identification/Preparation plus Appraisal/Negotiations)

Source: SAP report, "Project Details At a Glance", query run on April 10, 2006.




                                                       - 19 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.  Final Report - Urban Transport Project - CIE Consult, July 20, 1999

2.  Final Report "Financial Sustainability for the Public Transport Sector in Bishkek", CIE Consult,
    July 1999

3.  Project Appraisal Document for Kyrgyz Urban Transport Project, dated July 26, 2000 (Report
    No.20458-KG)

4.  Final Report - MOTC Road Network Strategic Economic Analysis (Phase I) May 2005

5.  Final Report and Final Bishkek PT Development Plan, CTS Consulting Company, November 2005

6.  Seminar Minutes (Ref. to Attachment 1) Urban Road Finance organized by Ministry of Finance,
    November 30, 2005

7.  Project Status Reports and Mission Aide-Memoires

8.  Project Progress Reports

9.  Draft final report of Phase-2 of the Republican road Network (RRN) Maintenance Study, KDTP
    (Final Report to be produced by Consultants, incorporating Bank's comments)

10. Auditor's Final Report and Management Letter (W.Jacobs) May 31, 2006




                                                 - 22 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

                KYRGYZ URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (CREDIT No. 3410-KG)
                            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    BORROWER's CONTRIBUTION


I. Credit Overview

IDA Credit No. 3410-KG in the amount of USD22.000.000 together with the co-financing from the
Government of the Kyrgyz Republic formed the financing of the Kyrgyz Urban Transport Project.

The main development objective of the Project was to provide sustainable, reliable, and affordable access
to mobility for the populations of the cities of Bishkek, Osh and Jalalabat through:

    (i)   Restoring selected urban roads to acceptable service standards;
    (ii)  Initiating the process of reform of urban roads maintenance and rehabilitation financing;
    (iii) Institutional strengthening and capacity building of the participating cities in road management
          and network conservation and
    (iv)  Improvement of the financial sustainability of the Bishkek passenger transport sector. Practicing
          experience of Bishkek city for carrying out reforms in the passenger transport sector in the cities
          of Osh and Jalalabat.

II. Implementation of Physical Component

In the framework of Urban Transport Project, the rehabilitation of central urban roads with a total extent of
80 km in Bishkek, 14 km in Osh and 11 km in Jalalabat was carried out successfully. Besides, under the
given Urban Transport Project, the works on routine maintenance (patching works) were also successfully
performed in the project participant cities and approximately 40 000 tons of asphalt-concrete was paved.

In connection with the completion of road rehabilitation works under the Urban Transport Project, a local
consultant carried out a road roughness survey and a traffic study on the urban roads rehabilitated in the
cities of Bishkek, Osh and Jalalabat within the first and second phases of the Urban Transport Project.

Within the above mentioned survey, there was made a comparative analysis of results that came from
changes of the road roughness before and after rehabilitation of the urban roads. The given survey
separately reflected changes in indicators of road roughness on streets rehabilitated during the Project
implementation, from the moment of the civil works completion up to the present day.

Moreover, the survey implied a traffic study on urban streets of the relevant cities and a comparison of
results with similar indicators existed before the road rehabilitation under the UTP.

A summarizing section of the above stated survey summed up and displayed a socio-economic benefits
from road rehabilitation works, carried out under UTP, and their influences on such indicators as a reduce
of transportation expenditures and vehicle operation costs.




                                                     - 23 -

Based on results of the survey, it is possible to notice the following:

Results of Pavement Roughness Survey

Before the rehabilitation (1999-2000), the involved roads had a very high index of roughness (IRI):
- IRI in Bishkek varied from 7.0 to 12.2;
- IRI in Osh varied from 5.0 to 10.0;
- IRI in Jalalabat varied from 6.5 to 14.5.

After completion of rehabilitation works, IRI significantly improved:
For Phase I (2001):
- IRI in Bishkek varied from 2.1 to 3.03;
- IRI in Osh reduced to 3.5;
- IRI in Jalalabat varied from 3.1 to 3.5.

For Phase II (2003):
- IRI in Bishkek varied from 2.2 to 2.9;

For Phase II (2004):
- IRI in Bishkek varied from 1.805 to 3.05;
- IRI in Osh varied from 2.63 to 3.405;
- IRI in Jalalabat varied from 2.7  3.41.

It should be noted that there was a minor growth of IRI on roads rehabilitated during recent years. By the
example of Bishkek roads (Phase I), for the last four years (2001-2004) IRI increased to the average of 0.6
 0.7 or 0,15 - 0,18 per year. It was the Consultant's opinion that the main causes of such a low index
increase were:

- a fairly good implementation quality of road rehabilitation and construction works;
-   (under the overall traffic increase) a reduction of heavy vehicle traffic, especially buses, which bring
intensive deteriorative effect on pavement.

Results of Calculation and Comparative Analysis of the Transport Traffic Intensity and Composition

In Bishkek, during 1999-2004, the total traffic intensity on different rehabilitated streets increased from 11
to 154 percents, and the average increase reached 63.6 percents.

In Osh, during 1999-2004, the total traffic intensity on different rehabilitated streets increased from 4 to
104 percents, the average increase reached 33.7 percents.

In Jalalabat, during 1999-2004, the total traffic intensity on different rehabilitated streets increased from 3
to 400 percents, the average increase reached 73 percents.
A qualitative composition of rolling stock substantially improved during the concerned period. The traffic
intensity of passenger transport and minibuses increased to a greater extent. However, the traffic of large
and medium buses severely decreased. This fact was interrelated with the transfer of passenger
transportation on large buses to minibuses transportation. Heavy transport traffic increased approximately
for 5-8 percents.




                                                      - 24 -

Economic Analysis

A profit-and-loss analysis of road sections, which were rehabilitated in the project cities under Phase I and
II of the Project, was carried out using HDM program. Components of road investments include (1) a
periodic maintenance and (2) a rehabilitation of road sections of the public transport network.

(For the projects with an economic effect that is measurable in money terms, see Table below)

                                                           Table I

                                  Proper cost of flows                                 Fiscal Impact
                                  Economic Analysis                                    Financial AnalysisTaxesSubsidies
     Economic effect              111.23
     (income)
     Expenditures                 4.94
     Net economic effect          111.23
      IRR, %                      175


If difference between effective cost of financial (actual) and economic (accounting) flows is high and not
explainable by taxes and subsidies, then the short explanation of this must be submitted. For example:
"Cost of financial income is lower than economic one due to rates for electricity".

The following economic indicators were calculated from incremental costs:

Internal Rate of Return (IRR) and Net Proper Value (NPV).

Incorporated profits  is a saving in expenditures of road users, due to the improved condition of pavement,
and a saving of road serving agencies from expenditures for future maintenance that occur as a result of
well-timed rehabilitation and savings from casual expenditures of passengers. To carry out the economic
evaluation, all expenditures of institutional construction works, such as technical assistance, designing,
supervision, monitoring and unforeseen physical costs should be combined in an investment outlay.

NPV was calculated using 12% of rate and 20-year period of reproduction (the period of modeling).

Data, inputted into HDM for an analysis, was updated taking into account the actually measured intensity
of traffic and IRI of rehabilitated roads. The calculated economic indicators were given in Table given
below.

                                                               Table II

                                       Phase I                          Phase II                      Entire Program
             Road          Inner Rate of    Net Present      Inner Rate of     Net Present     Inner Rate of    Net Present
        Rehabilitation    Returns (IRR), Values (NPV), $ Returns (IRR), Values (NPV), $ Returns (IRR), Values (NPV), $
                                 %              mln.               %              mln.               %              mln.
       Bishkek *                262             92.3             275.7            351.5            272.6            443.8
       Osh                     185.5            16.4             185.2            41.0             185.3            57.4
       Jalalabat               116.5             5.9             122.2            13.5             119.7            19.4
       Total                    223             114.6             251             406.0            244              520.6

       * results of the analysis on Bishkek are given taking into consideration additional Kievskaya and Frunze streets

IRR and NPV of rehabilitation works in three cities were evaluated much higher above the norms given in
Table 11.



                                                             - 25 -

These economic indicators visually demonstrated a high efficiency and profitability of investments flown
into Urban Transport Project.

III.   Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building of the Participating Cities in Road
Management and Network Conservation

In line with the project objectives, City Road Departments were created in the three participating cities
during the Implementation of the Urban Transport Project and charged with essential road management
functions envisioned under the Project. The Project provided institutional strengthening support for these
road departments in several ways: (i) by exposing staff to modern design practices, international tendering,
technical specifications, and contract administration practices during the implementation of the
rehabilitation contracts; (ii) by establishing fully equipped and functioning materials testing laboratories in
each city under the rehabilitation contracts, that were passed on to the respective cities; (iii) by financing
and helping introduce routine maintenance by contract, under the overall guidance of the supervisory
consultant, with the close involvement of road department staff; (iv) by providing computers and office
equipment for the City Road Departments; and (v) funding technical assistance to support development of a
functional structure and modernize and strengthen basic systems and procedures.

Under the Urban Transport Project all of the City Road Departments received considerable guidance and
support to develop and update Road Inventories, Functional Classification, and Condition Surveys,
establish a basic Maintenance Management System for monitoring, evaluation, forecasting, prioritizing and
budgeting annual maintenance activities.

Besides above-mentioned, Project participant cities were provided with hands-on support and focused
technical assistance during that crucial formative phase for setting up modern systems and procedures for
the City Road Departments (starting from Bishkek) through the involved international expertise.

Quality of Works and Supervision

Before the beginning of implementation of the project's road rehabilitation component in the cities of
Bishkek, Osh and Jalalabat, international consulting companies in association with a local consultant,
carried out a ripping-up of the existing pavement, studied the pavement condition, made an instrumental
survey of pavement deflections on the key roads of the project cities, and implemented a road roughness
survey (IRI).

The designing of pavement was done using the soviet approaches such as BCH 46-83 as well as
international WB ODA/TR and a Guidance of Asphalt Institute USA  MS4-MS17. Based on results
gained from the surveys and feasibility studies, the relevant method for rehabilitation was defined together
with the priority of streets for rehabilitation.

Thus, the repair works performed in Bishkek, Osh and Jalalabat under the UTP was not a reconstruction of
roads that implied a radical changes of the road geometrics, but the rehabilitation that mean repair and
renewal of the pavement initial parameters.

The design estimates on the given works were developed on the bases of AASHTO standards and approved
by the World Bank. The given standards slightly differed from the standards and building code and
regulations (SNiP) adopted in Kyrgyz Republic.




                                                      - 26 -

Mayor's offices of Bishkek, Osh and Jalalabat were direct Employers under the Project, and the General
Contractors, that carried out road rehabilitation works in the project cities under the both I and II phases of
UTP, were the winners of relevant international bidding procedures held by the Implementing Agencies.

In compliance with the covenants of civil contracts, there were designated only three contractual parties:
Mayor's offices of the project cities as Employers, an English consulting company in association with a
local consultant as the Engineer, and third party was the General Contractor. These three parties were
responsible for technical decisions within the civil contracts and their activity would have been strictly
regulated by the conditions of FIDIC international civil contract.

As it was mentioned previously, the design works, control and supervision over road rehabilitation works
were performed by an English consulting company and then by a local consultant. Both of these companies
met all the relevant qualitative requirements. The supervision over construction works meant the control
over materials quality, civil works, check of quantities of works performed, take over of works and so on.

In compliance with conditions of concluded civil contracts all the revealed defects were eliminated by
General Contractors at their own expense. General Contractors provided an unconditional bank guarantees
as a defect liability guarantee.

Asphalt-concrete and all of its components as well as other applied materials passed a careful lab analysis
(the Consultant could provide the results on demand). The characteristics of all materials used and results
of lab testing of the applied asphalt mixes are available at the local consultant office. Only those materials
which met relevant standards were used in works.

Also it must be mentioned that the use of all kinds of lab equipment for testing and controlling the quality
of applied construction materials were provided by the construction contracts under the given project. The
lab equipment was approved by Kyrgyz Gosstandart and GASK, the state standardization agencies.

Approval of Construction Materials

Previous to production of the asphalt-concrete material the General Contractors submitted all components
of the inert materials (bitumen, powder etc.) to the Engineer for lab testing. The Engineer approved
production of the asphalt material if testing had only the positive results. During the producing of asphalt
concrete material at the Asphalt Plant, the Engineer checked the temperature of asphalt mixing and the
compliance of the inert materials composition in the mix. And only after positive results of testing were
drawn, the Engineer no objected on paving with the tested asphalt-concrete material. At that, the
temperature of asphalt mix was being tested during the process of paving and compacting. A core testing
for compactness and composition of inert materials was conducted the day after paving.

All the results of core testing are available at the Engineer-Consultant's records.

As a result of UTP implementation the cost of road rehabilitation did not exceed USD 200.000.00 per one
kilometer. That was considerably low cost for the road rehabilitation works which had been achieved by
conducting the international competitive bidding. One of the Project goals was to increase to the maximum
the number of the rehabilitated streets and their length under the limited budget of the credit. The goal was
successfully achieved. And as a result of that, two additional streets of Kievskaya and Frunze were
rehabilitated in Bishkek.




                                                      - 27 -

Crack Formation

The crack formation on the rehabilitated pavement was unavoidable as well as it appears on new pavement.
There are no pavements without cracks at all. There are a lot of reasons for crack formation, the major of
them are: a sharp continental climate, a formation of cracks reflected from the old pavement, a temporary
load and others.

An independent international expertise, conducted in 2002 by a Canadian expert, investigated the crack
formation on the urban roads rehabilitated under UTP in Bishkek and submitted a relevant conclusion on
the quality of works and reasons of crack formation. In compliance with the recommendations of the
independent expert the Contractor was responsible for elimination of all the defects except the reflected
cracks.

 Recommendations of the expertise: The cracks should be "cured"  sealed with mastic every autumn and
then the pavement would be in use for long (an estimated lifetime of the pavement was 6-7 years due to
relevant regular maintenance and repairs, according to the project design). On several streets rehabilitated
in 2001 the condition of pavement was satisfactory (despite the fact that the pavement had been serving for
4 years already).

Additional Streets

Thanks to the competitive biddings conducted under UTP there was a credit saving by the finish of all civil
works under UTP Phase II in 2004. Within the entire project tenders the bids were lower than estimates and
cost savings allowed rehabilitation of a few more streets than planned: Kievskaya and Frunze. Prior to
awarding a contract for rehabilitation of those streets the relevant feasibility study and a traffic count was
carried out by financing the addendums to the main contract with a local contractor. The expediency of the
additional streets rehabilitation became obvious after the investigations conducted by the Consultant. The
relevant reports on the study were reviewed and no objected by the Bank. In fine, the contract with CRBC,
the General Contractor, was amended and the additional urban roads were successfully rehabilitated within
UTP's physical component.

IV. Implementation of Passenger Transport Reform Component

Also, in the framework of UTP, for the purpose of improving the passenger transport services, according to
the Credit Agreement and recommendations of the World Bank and an Irish consulting company, a
Passenger Transport Agencies (PTA) were established in three cities Bishkek, Osh, and Jalal-Abad. These
Agencies are a structural divisions of the city administrations and vested with relevant regulative functions.

Thanks to the work of PTAs in three project cities the activity of operators was put in good order and
systematized, became more transparent and qualitative. PTAs regularly held tender for transport services.
The route network was optimized, and new routes were being started. Transport needs of citizens were
sufficiently satisfied. The World Bank, through PIU, constantly supported with recommendations PTAs
and reforms realized in passenger transport sector.

Public Transport Component Objective

As it is indicated above, the Kyrgyz Urban Transport Project (KUTP) produced recommendations for the
setting up of Passenger Transport Agencies (PTA) in three cities Bishkek, Osh, and Jalal-Abad. The



                                                    - 28 -

recommendations for setting up the PTA were developed and presented by a KUTP technical assistance
contract and, after review, were accepted almost in their entirety by the Kyrgyz Government. The National
Government issued the necessary enabling decree to bring the PTAs into operation and the three Municipal
Authorities issued the needed local decrees and regulations governing the operations of their respective
PTA. The setting up of the PTAs was an Institutional Capacity Development component and was not
supported by any physical investment components. The Passenger Transport Agencies were intended to be
responsible for the revision of the PT Route Networks and the rationalization of these route networks into
viable and sustainable networks. The PTAs would then be responsible for setting up Route Tendering and
Route Contracting Procedures.

Public Transport Component Implementation

The implementation of the PTAs was substantially successful in achieving the objective of introducing the
principle of Competitive Tendering of PT Routes and the operation of PT routes under a form of Public
Service Obligation (PSO) Contract by private sector operators. Wider PTA objectives to "provide
sustainable, reliable, and affordable transportation for the people living in Bishkek, Osh, and Jalalabad"
were not equally well achieved. The reasons for this and the degree of achievement of wider objectives
varied amongst the 3 participating cities but the situation in Bishkek provided a useful example:

The PTA was self-supporting and did not function within the guidance of a City Urban Transport Policy
and Strategy.

PTA impartialness was routinely questioned by operators.
PTA was not presently accountable to an effective City Transport Authority.

In certain minor aspects the PTA functioned as a control/enforcement agency to the detriment of its
primary intended role as a PT Planning Agency.
Recognizing the problems experienced with the introduction of the PTAs, the World Bank arranged
additional international technical assistance in 2005 to address the problems identified in Bishkek and to
produce recommendations that would also assist the other participating cities. The Consultant contracted
for this additional technical assistance presented comprehensive recommendations which included: (i)
setting up a City Transport Department to provide policy guidance; (ii) improvements to Route Tendering
and Contract Procedures; (iii) improving the financial sustainability of PT operations.

Public Transport Component Lessons Learned

The Institutional Development objectives were very high. The technical assistance in implementation helped
to achieve the objectives. Lack of supporting PT physical investment components inhibited the impact and
importance of the institutional objectives. The original recommendations did not take due note of national
legislation nor of other transport sector institutional initiatives. The need for the PTAs to function as
agencies subordinated to the directives of a City Public Transport Policy was insufficiently stressed. This
led to the PTA role expanding into areas of activity not envisaged as PTA functions. Partly, this diverted
the PTA from its intended planning functions into roles of supervision and enforcement that in some ways
both constrained and misdirected private sector participation in PT system development.

The recommendations produced by the additional Grant Technical Assistance addressed these issues but
these recommendations again might require physical investment components and implementation assistance
to achieve the aims of institutional strengthening effectively.



                                                     - 29 -

V. Implementation of Road Financing Reform Component

The road financing reform was another important component of UTP. To implement this component the
Working Group (WG) under the Ministry of Finance was established in the framework of UTP. The main
goal of WG was to develop real programs on urban road financing in Bishkek, Osh and Jalalabat cities.
These programs for 2004-2007 were developed by WG in association with the project participant mayor's
offices.

During the elaboration of programs for estimation of expenses for road maintenance and rehabilitation, the
technique of specific factors offered by the Consultants of the World Bank was used. However, the amount
of expenses determined by this technique did not reflect the amount of actual necessary means for road
financing. Therefore, the road financing programs required the finishing with clarification of the actually
required expenses for road maintenance and rehabilitation.

The Working Group on road financing and the Administrations of the cities - participants of the Project
suggested conducting a road inventory in the Project cities to determine the actual condition of roads and
expenses required for maintenance and rehabilitation. That proposal was no objected by the World Bank.
The programs of road financing in the cities of Bishkek, Osh and Jalalabat would be corrected by results of
the road inventory.

The following main measures were taken during the urban road inventory:

        collection of the information and identification of the city road networks;
        definition of a length of each road and assignment of an identification code to it;
        definition of geometrical parameters, technical condition, transport volume, actual (residual) values
         and requirement for means for rehabilitation and restoration of roads.
        drawing up of summary sheets of roads technical condition.
        drawing up of summary sheets of residual values, cost of rehabilitation of every road and
         requirements for means for the road maintenance and repair within a year.
        drawing up the map-schemes of a road network for each city.

Prior to the beginning of the field surveys the Consultant together with the road administrations of the cities
had collected all available information concerning the road network, and on the basis of existing
cartographic materials the Consultant prepared the lists of urban roads and streets, and defined their
categories, and also their administrative and economical importance in accordance with the classification of
SNiP KR 30-01-2001 (Construction Standards and Regulations of the Kyrgyz Republic). Each street and
road was assigned its own identification code indicating its geographical position and ordinal number.

Proposed Strategies for Road Rehabilitation Works

Based on a wide range of daily traffic volume, type and condition of road pavements, and also of road
category and importance, a number of standard versions of works on maintenance, repair, rehabilitation
and reconstruction of the urban road network was considered.

At assigning of the road rehabilitation type and calculating of tariffs, the experience of road rehabilitation
gained within the framework of "Urban Transport" Project Phase I and II, was applied.




                                                     - 30 -

The basic reasons of the pavement's destruction:

        natural deterioration of bituminous layers;
        influence of temperature drops in conditions of an essentially continental climate;
        cracking of bituminous layers under the effect of transport loads, because of brittleness;
        poor quality of building and materials;
        insufficient or sometimes complete absence of maintenance and repairs of pavements.


The easiest way to solve the problem of readability recovery and extension of pavements durability is, first
of all, to carry out milling of the upper disrupted layers, crack sealing, patching and paving of a new
asphalt concrete overlay.

At major destructions of pavement and road bases the complete replacement of design layers -
reconstruction of all road dress would be required.

Latest Measures

A high level workshop on urban road financing in Project participant cities was held in November 2005 at
Issyk Kul. The main subject of discussion was the following:

The republican road network as well as the networks of the cities was being deteriorating quite rapidly,
except Bishkek-Osh road and other sections of limited extent, which were financed by external credits. The
continuation of existing practice, when a low scope of works and expenditures are allocated on road
maintenance, leads to the loss of most paved roads by 2010. The vehicle operation costs will become
excessively high or the reconstruction of road network will be required, but by that time it will be very
expensive.

Therefore, it was persistently recommended to the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic and authorities of
the cites to pay attention to preservation of road network rehabilitated within the project of "Urban
Transport" and to search for sources of stable financing the road maintenance program.

Speeches of the workshop participants were focused on choosing of preservation strategies of the core road
network and searching of resources for road financing.

As a result of discussions the following recommendations were accepted:

    1. To establish the urban city road funds outlining it separately in supply section of the budget. At
         that, the sources of financing, including parking, vehicle owners' tax and allocations from
         Republican Road Fund must be indicated.

    2. City parliaments to pass a 5-year program of development and maintenance of urban roads, with a
         priority given to the maintainable roads, on the basis of the financing strategies developed.

    3. To increase the vehicle owners tax 3 times.

    4. To initiate proposals on urban road financing from the means of Road Fund (10% from the
         national fund) on the assumption of quantity of city's population and amount of incomes that are
         collecting by cities into the Road Fund of Republic.

    5. to create an inter-departmental commission consisting of representatives from Ministry of
         Economy and Finance, Ministry of Transport and Communications, State Tax Inspections, State



                                                    - 31 -

        Customs inspection, Mayors' offices of cites to review the creation of "resources" of the National
        Road Fund, in a view of forthcoming changes in Tax Code, as well as utilization of Road Fund in
        corpora for vehicle roads.

The established commission would submit the problem of road financing to consideration of the project
city's parliaments, Government of KR and Jogorku Kenesh (Parliament) of KR.

VI. Divestiture of All Road Construction Entities in Bishkek

The round table discussion named "Reforming of Bishkek road sector" took place at the Bishkek Mayor's
Office on July 19, 2005. During the discussion, it was decided to reorganize the asphalt plant to
manufacturing firm in order to restore its production basis, economical independence, and to create
conditions for attraction of investments. The staff and other road construction equipment that were
employed under the project would be moved to private sector in the same way.

Currently, having agreed with all other involved public agencies, the Bishkek Mayor's Office is preparing
the relevant decrees related to the matter.

VII. Final Conclusions

As estimated by the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Kyrgyz Republic, and based on the
opinion shared by all the Project participant City Administrations, the Project activities contributed to
achieving noticeable progress in the urban roads rehabilitation within three biggest cities of the Kyrgyz
Republic  Bishkek, Osh and Jalalabat, in improvement of financing and researching of additional funds
for rehabilitation and maintenance of the urban roads in Bishkek, Osh and Jalalabat cities, in improvement
of the financial sustainability of the Bishkek passenger transport sector, as well as in carrying out of
routine maintenance of the urban streets and in improvement of quality and efficiency of patching works.

All in all, the project was a success. And that was a result of good cooperation between all the main
"actors" involved: the World Bank, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, and the Bishkek, Osh, Jalalabat City Administrations.

The Ministry of Transport and Communications as an Implementing Agency benefited very much from
prompt support and guidance and would like to express thankfulness and sincere gratitude to Mr. H. Kerali
 Program Team Leader, World Bank (ECSIE); to Mr. N. Qureshi  Senior Urban Transport Specialist,
World Bank; to Mr. Dennis De Tray - Director of The World Bank Central Asian Country Unit; to Mr.
Chris Lovelace - the Manager of the World Bank's country office in Kyrgyz Republic; to Mr. Naushad A.
Khan  Sr. Procurement Specialist of the Word Bank Central Asia regional Office; to Mr. John Ogallo,
Financial Management Specialist of the World Bank; to Mr. M. Aldayarov  Project Specialist, World
Bank country office in Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic (ECSIE); to Mr. N. Kurmanaliev  Procurement
Analyst, World Bank country office in Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic and to all other representatives of the
World Bank for their kind cooperation and support rendered during implementation of the Urban Transport
Project.

The Urban Transport Project completely corresponded to such strategic objectives of assistance of the
World Bank in the Kyrgyz Republic as achieving of a strong economic growth, poverty reduction,
management improvement and reinforcing of the state financing system.




                                                   - 32 -

So, the work on achieving of a strong growth by removal of barriers in policies and regulation of private
sector's activity, that provides services in passenger transportation sphere, was conducted under the Urban
transport Project component on reforming of the public passenger transport system.

The given Project also influenced on poverty reduction and assisted improvement of life conditions of the
poor population in the Project participant cities, through investments made to the infrastructures of the
cities, through rehabilitation of the selected urban roads in Bishkek, Osh and Jalalabat, which were in
extremely poor condition.      In its turn, and finally, the road rehabilitation under the given Project
significantly reduced expenditures for passenger and cargo transportation, and also greatly decreased
expenditures for maintenance and repairs of vehicles.

It should be also remarked, that the Urban Transport Project maintained purposes and tasks of the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) related to strengthening of the state financing through conducting reforms in
urban roads maintenance and rehabilitation financing.

Thus, the advantages from the assets invested to the Project basically lied on improvement of the road
condition quality and decrease of expenditures for the vehicle exploitation. The rehabilitation of streets, the
most loaded with public passenger transport, was carried out within
the Urban Transport Project. The given circumstance gave considerable advantages to poor urban citizens,
who depend on services of the public passenger transport. The given Project also exerted a positive
influence on population employment in the three Project cities, while the local contractors, suppliers and
workers were attracted and hired for implementation of road-rehabilitation and routine patching works.

It is also necessary to note that the reforms in public passenger transport services exerted the positive
influence in all the three project cities. Thus, number of the private sector operators in this sector
significantly increased which, in its turn, countervailed decrease of the public operators' number. All these
private operators provide reliable, non-subsidized services at the competitive fares that accordingly have
led to the improvement of services rendered by the public sector operators and considerably reduced the
necessity for the state subsides for the given services.

Finally, the general well-being of the public transport passengers has improved and many of professional
workers found job, which were unemployed before or did not get wages on the former work places.

In connection with the circumstance, that the Project implementation is carried out in the three largest cities
of the Kyrgyz Republic - Bishkek, Osh and Jalalabat, where the biggest part of the country population
lives, its implementation was permanently open to the general public, Government of the Kyrgyz Republic,
and mass media.

Local newspapers and magazines periodically issued articles, which informed that the population of three
Project cities found positive the results of project implementation and that they were grateful for the World
Bank's assistance directed to the objectives of the Project. The
Urban Transport Project also deserved a positive estimation of the Kyrgyz Republic leaders and became an
obvious example of effective utilization of credit funds provided by the International Development
Association (the World Bank).




                                                      - 33 -

Thus, by implementation of all the above-stated measures, the Urban Transport Project introduced its
contribution to the purposes of development and poverty reduction in the Kyrgyz Republic.


Sincerely,


Nurlan Ch. Sulaimanov
_______________________

Minister of Transport and Communications
of the Kyrgyz Republic




                                                 - 34 -

                                    70                                                                                                                                                                                            80

            This map was produced by the
            Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                          K A Z A K H S T A N
            The boundaries, colors, denominations                                                                   Shu
            and any other information shown on                                                                         R.
            this map do not imply, on the part of                                                                           To Almaty                                                                               To Almaty
            The World Bank Group, any judgment              To Taraz

            on the legal status of any territory, or                                      To Taraz                                         Tokmok
            any endorsement or acceptance of                                                                                Kant
            such boundaries.                                                                             Kara-                                                        Cholpon-Ata
                                                                                                         Balta BISHKEK
                                                                                Talas
                                                                                                                   C H U I                                    Balykchi           Lake Issyk-Kul             KARA KOL
                                                                                                                                                                                    1580 m
                                                                              TA L A S                                                                                                                                          Peak Pobedy

                                                                                                                                                              Orto-Tokoy                              ISSYK-KUL                   7439 m

                                                                                                                                                                Dam                            Barskaun

                                                                Chatkal                                                                    Lake Sonkul                                                          R.
                                                                                  Toktogul
                                                           JALAL-ABAD                                                                       2970 m                                                    R.
                                                                                    Dam                                                                                                                   Kumtor
                                                                                    Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                               Taragay
                                                                                        Kara-Kul                                                                                                   Kara-Say
                                                                                                                              N A R Y N                       Naryn         Naryn    R.

                                                                              Tash-Kumyr
                     UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                            Naryn    R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To    Tarim    R.
                                                                                                  Kok-Dzhangak
                                                           ya
                                                    Syr-Dar                                      Jalal-Abad                                                                    Tabyshkan Darya

                                                                                                    Andizhan Dam
                                                                                             Osh                                                                                                          C H I N A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          80


                                                                            Kyzyl-Kiya        Papan                                     To Taxkorgan                                   40
        40                                                                                   Dam                                                                                                             KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                      Slkta

                                                                           O S H                                                                                                                  URBAN TRANSPORT
                                                                                                                  Suu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT
                                                                                                               Kok
                                                                                                                                 To    Tarim    R.
                                                                                      KyzylSuu
        To Dushanbe
                                                                yaR.                                                  Caspian                                                      RUSSIAN                 BISHKEK PROJECT CITIES
                                                                                                                       Sea                                                           FED.                            RAILROADS
                                                     To Amu-DarToDushanbe                    To Murgab                                      Aral        K A Z A K H S T A N
                                                                                                                                 UZBEKISTSea                                                                         MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                      TURKMENIST                                  Lake                                               OTHER ROADS
                          TA J I K I S TA N                                                                                                                      Balkash
                                                                                                                                            AN                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                             KILOMETERS                                                                     KYRGYZ                                                   OBLAST CAPITALS
                                                                   0       50         100         150             ISLAMIC        AN                           REP.                                                   SELECTED CITIES                          IBRD
MA                                                                                                                REP. OF                          TAJIKIST
                                                                                                                                                          AN                                                         OBLAST BOUNDARIES
  Y                                                                0      25      50       75       100             IRAN                                                     C H I N A                                                                            30895
   2000                                                                          MILES                                      AFGHANISTAN                                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                           70

