Report No. PID8321
Project Name                     Kyrgyz Republic-Urban Transport Project (@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           ECSIN
Project ID                       KGPE50719
Borrower(s)                      Kyrgyz Republic
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Transportation and
Communications
42 Isanov St., Bishkek,
Kyrgyz Republic
Tel: (996-312) 216-672
Fax: (996-312) 664-781
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           April 6, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         May 24, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 22, 2000
Country and Sector Background
The Kyrgyz Government's over-arching objective is to
establish long-term sustainable growth as a means to
reduce poverty and improve the overall standard of
living for its citizens. The Bank is supporting the
government via specific investments in basic social
services, including health, rural water supply, and
public transportation, amongst others. The proposed
project covers three main Kyrgyz cities: Bishkek, Osh,
and Jalalabad. The condition of road infrastructure in
these cities is generally poor due to the harsh
climatic conditions and because the roads have not
been properly maintained since the collapse of the
Soviet Union. The municipal governments responsible
for the urban road networks have inadequate revenues
for even minimal road maintenance, due partly to the
continuing economic constraints that affect all
aspects of the Kyrgyz economy. Measures to improve
efficiency such as contracting out of rehabilitation
and maintenance are not yet operational, and there
remains a huge backlog of deferred road maintenance.
The cities also need to give attention to urban
passenger transport, in particular the institutional
and regulatory framework governing passenger
transport.
Objectives
The overall objective of the project is to introduce



sustainable, reliable, and affordable access to
mobility for the populations of the cities of Bishkek,
Osh, and Jalalabad. Specifically, this will include
(i) restoring selected parts of the urban transport
network to acceptable standards, (ii) advancing market
mechanisms in the provision of urban passenger
services, and the rehabilitation and maintenance of
urban roads infrastructure, (iii) introducing steady
and adequate sources of urban roads maintenance
financing.
Description
The proposed Urban Transport project will have three
components, described below:
A. Road rehabilitation and maintenance of priority
sections of the urban public transport networks. Road
sections will be selected from the main public
transport network in Bishkek, Osh. and Jalalabad.
This component will include complete reconstruction to
surface treatments, minor drainage improvements, and
provision for utility modifications. The routine
maintenance funds will be aimed at catching up on
crackfilling and pothole repairs.
B. Road Finance Study. A road finance study will be
completed to address the issue of sustainability of
road fund investments through municipal finance
enhancement, and allocation of funds from the National
Road Fund for urban roads. The study will also
investigate the optimal means of repaying the project
loan obligations.
C. Support for Passenger Transport Reforms. This
component provides support for institutional and
regulatory reforms in the provision of urban passenger
transport.
Financing
The total project is estimated to cost US$24.44
million. The proposed IDA Credit would provide
US$22.0 million, or 90 percent of the total project
cost. The Government would finance US$2.44 million,
or 10 percent of total project costs.
Implementation
Overall Project management will be the responsibility
of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the
Ministry of Transport and Communications. The PIU
will have, inter-alia, the following responsibilities:
(i) liaise with appropriate central government and
city officials on key project issues; (ii) manage
-2 -



consultants contracts; (iii) provide procurement and
project administration assistance to the project
cities; (iv) monitor the project status to the project
cities, the central government, and the Bank; and (v)
maintain strong communication links with all three
project cities and the Bank.
Sustainability
Sustainability of investments in the urban roads
sector is contingent on: (i) the establishment of a
secure and predicable source of funding for urban road
rehabilitation and maintenance, most probably by
strengthening municipal revenues, and establishing
clear and transparent rules allocation National Road
Fund revenues; (ii) the creation of units in the city
governments for planning, programming, budgeting, and
contracting out of urban road rehabilitation and
maintenance
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the
Country/Sector
The Bank has had considerable experience in the
transport sector in other parts of the world,
including Eastern Europe. The lessons learned from
this related experience include the need to ensure an
adequate level of maintenance expenditures, with
priority given to maintenance over new construction
since it frequently produces a higher return on
investment up to the optimum level of maintenance
expenditures; the need for strong and effective
maintenance organizations; the frequent need for
improved technologies and methods; and the importance
of a sustainable, non-subsidized set of road user
charges and rail tariffs. These lessons have been
incorporated into the design of this project.
Poverty Category
The project will have a favorable but indirect impact
on the urban poor, who will have improved access to
markets and urban centers. It will also assist in job
creation, both directly through the project activities
and through the increased investment that may result
from improved transport in the cities of Bishkek, Osh
and Jalalabad.
Environmental Aspects
The project will have only a limited environmental
impact since the it does not involve road widening or
realignment. An environmental assessment is being
completed, and the Government has committed itself to
carry out the Environmental Management Plan
- 3-



recommended in the Assessment.
Program Objective Categories
The project supports private sector development
through reforms supporting private provision of public
transport and privatization of all urban road works
construction. It also assists in public finance
strengthening through improved municipal road revenue
and expenditure management.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Richard C. Podolske
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-3008
Fax:        (202) 614-0900
Note: This is information on an involving project.
Certain components may not be necessarily included in
the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 14, 2000.
- 4-



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be
required that the borrower prepare a separate EA
report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance
with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not
contain an EA annex; the findings and recommendations
of the EA will be reflected in the body of the PID.



