Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3410 KG
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Transport Project)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 18, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3410 KG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 18, 2000, between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project; 
(B) 
Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Cities of 
Bishkek, Jalal-Abad and Osh (the Participating Cities) with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will 
make available to the Participating Cities a portion of the proceeds of 
the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
Page  2
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended 
through October 6, 1999, with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set 
forth below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said 
Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12. ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines meets 
the requirements set forth in Section 10 
of Resolution No. 183 of the Board of Governors of 
the Association, 
adopted on June 26, 1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not 
a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of 
the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) 
set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, 
works and services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(c)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the environmental 
mitigation plan for the Project, satisfactory to the Association, 
prepared and adopted by the Borrower; 
(d)
“MOT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport and 
Communications or any successor thereto;
(e)
“NRF” means the National Road Fund of the Borrower 
established by the Borrower’s Law on National Road Fund No. 71, dated 
June 1, 1998, or any successor thereto;
(f)
“Participating Cities” means collectively the cities of 
Bishkek, Jalal-Abad and Osh, and “Participating City” means each and any 
Page  3
such city; 
(g)
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan for the carrying 
out of the Project prepared and adopted by the Borrower as the same may 
be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association;
(h)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established by 
the Borrower within the MOT for purposes of Project management;
(i)
“Project Account” means the Account to be opened by the 
Borrower, for purposes of making available its counterpart contribution 
to the financing of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 3.02 of this Agreement; 
(j)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(k)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an 
exchange of letters dated October 19, 1999, and November 11, 1999 between 
the Borrower and the Association; 
(l)
“Road Management Department” means the department of the 
Administration of each Participating City responsible for planning and 
managing the Participating City’s urban roads;
(m)
“Som” means the lawful currency of the Borrower;
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(o)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and each Participating City pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; 
(p)
“Urban Passenger Transport Action Plan” means the plan of 
actions for urban passenger transport reform in the city of Bishkek, to 
be prepared, based on the principles included in the Program, and adopted 
by the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Association; and
(q)
“Urban Road Finance Working Group” means the group 
established by the Borrower to prepare and monitor the carrying out of an 
urban road finance reform program in the Participating Cities.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
Page  4
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be May 31, 2004, or such later 
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 
15, 2010 and ending June 15, 2040. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on June 15, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by 
them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment 
of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
Page  5
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall:
(i)
carry out Parts B and C of the Project through the 
MOT and in conjunction with 
the Participating Cities 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate engineering, urban transport, environmental, 
financial and 
administrative practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project; 
(ii)
assist the Participating Cities, through the PIU, to 
carry out Part A of the 
Project; and 
(iii)
without limitation upon any of its obligations under 
the Credit Agreement, the 
Borrower shall cause the 
Participating Cities to perform all their obligations 
set forth in their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements, 
shall take or cause 
to be taken all necessary or 
appropriate action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, to enable the 
Participating 
Cities to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Page  6
Agreement.
(c)
For the purposes of Parts A of the Project the Borrower 
shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
categories (1) (a), (1) (b) and (1) (c) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement available to the cities of 
Bishkek, Jalal-Abad and Osh, respectively, under Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and the Participating 
Cities, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association, including those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive, the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations under 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 
2000, open the Project Account in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association, and deposit into said Account an initial amount equivalent 
to US$50,000; (b) thereafter maintain the Project Account, and replenish 
said Account promptly before the beginning of each calendar quarter with 
funds sufficient to enable the Borrower to meet its obligations under 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement for such period; (c) use the amount in the 
Project Account exclusively for financing the Borrower’s contribution to 
Project expenditures; and (d) ensure that sufficient annual allocations 
will be made in the Borrower’s budget for the Borrower’s counterpart 
contribution to the costs of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the 
carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
Page  7
acceptable to 
the Association consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six (6) months after 
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion 
on such financial statements, records 
and accounts and a 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and 
accounts and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during each fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2000, or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
Page  8
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation beyond the control of the Borrower shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Project or a significant 
part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
the PIP shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or 
waived without the Association’s prior consent; and
(c)
any Participating City shall have failed to perform any of 
its obligations under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified: the events 
specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf 
of the Borrower and the Participating Cities and become effective in 
accordance with their respective terms; and
(b)
the Borrower has appointed the auditors, satisfactory to the 
Association, referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  9
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Erkindik Boulevard, 58
Bishkek 720874
Kyrgyz Republic
Telex:
Facsimile:
245156  NUR  KH
65-16-45
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
By /s/ Baktybek Abdrissaev
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Nancy Cooke
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Page  10
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
(a) under Part A.1
of the Project
  10,000,000
90%
(b) under Part A.2
of the Project
   1,230,000
90%
(c)
 under Part A.3
of the Project
   2,100,000
90%
(2)
Goods
      80,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and
90% of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services  1,160,000
100%
including audits, 
training and studies
(4)
PIU’s Operating Costs    240,000
100% of expenditures 
incurred through 
December 31, 2001;
90% of expenditures 
incurred
through December 31, 2002;
and 80% of expenditures
incurred thereafter
(5)
Refunding of Project
    230,000
Amount due pursuant 
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
  1,660,000
TOTAL
16,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “PIU’s Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred 
by the PIU on account of management of Project implementation for 
salaries (but excluding salaries of civil servants), communications, 
local travel, including local travel of the Participating Cities 
Page  11
officials, utilities, printing and publications, office supplies, office 
maintenance, and such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the 
Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 1,100,000, may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 1, 2000.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a) contracts for works costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) 
contracts for goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) 
contracts for audits; (d) PIU’s operating costs; (e) training and 
studies; and (f) services under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each for consulting firms and $30,000 equivalent each for 
individual consultants, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account, in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account 
of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first 
Project Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management 
Report pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association 
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) 
Page  12
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) 
the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the provisions of the Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made  On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$800,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, 
that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $400,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not 
Page  13
exceed the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the 
time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of 
the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into the Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal 
to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to 
finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to 
be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of 
$1,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to introduce sustainable, reliable 
and affordable access to transportation for the populations of the 
Page  14
Participating Cities through restoring selected urban roads to acceptable 
service standards and initiating the process of reform of urban roads 
maintenance and rehabilitation financing.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Urban Road Networks
1.
In Bishkek, rehabilitation of approximately 72km of roads and road 
maintenance. 
2.
In Jalal-Abad, rehabilitation of approximately 14km of roads and 
road maintenance. 
3.
In Osh, rehabilitation of approximately 12km of roads and road 
maintenance. 
Part B:
Institutional Development 
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to the Borrower and 
to the Participating Cities for:
(1) 
engineering, design, construction supervision and training to 
introduce current design technologies for road maintenance and 
rehabilitation, international commercial tendering and contract 
administration practices and to establish and implement a computerized 
maintenance management system for monitoring, evaluating, forecasting and 
budgeting annual maintenance activities; and
(2) 
preparing and carrying out a program for reform of municipal road 
finance.  
Part C:
Project Management and Monitoring
1.  
Provision of technical assistance, including audit services, 
equipment and operating costs to the PIU for purposes of management of 
Project implementation.
2.  
Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of 
environmental monitoring of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by November 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Page  15
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised 
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999, subject to 
the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the 
Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping 
Road management equipment estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $70,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping  
Project management equipment estimated to cost less than $25,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $40,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  16
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B above, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for environmental monitoring estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
Page  17
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A:
Project Management
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in the PIP. 
2.
The Borrower shall maintain the PIU until completion of the 
Project, with staff, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association and assign to it responsibility for overall Project 
management and coordination including:
(a) 
preparation and submission to the Association, by October 31 
in each year, for its review and concurrence, of an annual work program 
for the Project for the following calendar year, including procurement 
and financing plans; 
(b)
maintenance of Project financial records and accounts, 
including maintenance of the Special Account and arranging for the audit 
thereof;
(c) 
preparation of applications for withdrawal of the proceeds 
of the Credit;
Page  18
(d) 
preparation of bidding and contract documents and management 
of procurement procedures under the Project;
(e) 
supervision of implementation of work programs under the 
Project, and
(f) 
preparation and submission to the Borrower and the 
Association, starting in September 2000 and not later than thirty (30) 
days after the end of each quarter, of quarterly reports on the progress 
of Project implementation.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain the Urban Road Finance Working Group 
until completion of the Project, with composition and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association.
4.
By October 1, 2000, or such later date as the Association may 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall employ consultants with 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, to assist the Urban Road Finance Working Group in the 
preparation of an urban road finance reform program in the Participating 
Cities. 
5.
The Borrower, acting through the Urban Road Finance Working Group 
and in conjunction with the Participating Cities, shall:
(a)
by December 31, 2000, prepare and furnish to the Association 
for its review and comments time-bound plans of measures of financing 
road rehabilitation and maintenance in each Participating City which 
shall include, inter alia, proposals for improved and sustainable locally 
generated financing and proposals concerning the manner of allocating 
resources from the NRF to urban roads, increasing NRF’s revenues, and the 
management of the NRF; 
(b)
by March 31, 2001, review with the Association said 
time-bound plans and, thereafter, take all measures necessary to 
implement said plans taking into account the Association’s views thereon; 
and
(c)
by each of June 30, 2001 and January 31, 2001, and 
semiannually thereafter until completion of the Project, prepare and 
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on the 
progress of implementation of said time-bound plans.
6.
The Borrower shall cause each Participating City:
(a)
by December 31, 2000, to prepare and furnish to the 
Association for its review and comments a plan for the Participating City 
to divest itself of all capital construction equipment and staff 
including asphalt and concrete plants and all road construction 
equipment; and
(b)
by July 1, 2001, or such later date as the Association may 
otherwise agree, implement said plan, taking into account the 
Association’s comments thereon.
7.
Until the completion of the Project, the Borrower, in conjunction 
with the Participating Cities, shall take all measures necessary to 
ensure the adequacy of staff retained in the Road Management Department 
of each Participating City for the planning and management of road 
maintenance and rehabilitation works under the Project.
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by December 31, 2000, prepare and furnish to the Association 
for its review and comments the Urban Passenger Transport Action Plan;
(b)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2001, said Urban 
Page  19
Passenger Transport Action Plan, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to implement said Plan, taking into account the Association’s 
comments thereon, in accordance with a time schedule to be agreed upon 
with the Association.
Part B:
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that all measures necessary for the 
carrying out of the Environmental Management Plan shall be taken in a 
timely manner; and (b) include adequate information on the carrying out 
of such measures in the progress reports referred to in paragraph 2 (f) 
of Part A of this Schedule.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 
2001, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31, 2001, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Principal Terms and Conditions of 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
The following terms and conditions shall be included in the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements entered into pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of 
this Agreement:
Part A:
Terms
1.
The principal amount of each sub-loan to a Participating City (the 
Participating City Sub-Loan) shall be denominated and be the equivalent 
in dollars (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the 
value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid on account of 
goods or services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
2.
The Participating Cities shall pay interest on the principal amount 
of the Participating City Sub-Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, at the rate of one percent (1%) per annum. 
3.
The amount of the Participating City Sub-Loan shall be repaid: (a) 
by the Participating City of Bishkek over a term of fifteen (15) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years; and (b) by the 
Participating Cities of Jalal-Abad and Osh over a term of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years.
Part B:
Obligations to Carry out the Project Activities 
Page  20
1.
The Participating City shall declare its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out, with the Borrower’s 
assistance, the activities related to the Participating City as described 
in Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, urban 
transport and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for Part A of the Project. 
2. 
The Participating City shall duly perform all its obligations under 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Participating City shall not take or concur in any action 
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
3.
(a)
The Participating City shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the 
progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and shall enable 
representatives of the Borrower and of the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, to visit the facilities, construction sites 
or other activities to be financed under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
(b)
The Participating City shall promptly inform the Association 
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Credit, or the performance by the Participating City of its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
4.
The Participating City shall properly operate and maintain the 
facilities financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
Part C:
Implementation Conditions 
1.
Not later than August 1, 2000, the Participating City shall appoint 
the Project Manager with terms of reference, qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association, who shall be responsible for 
administration of the activities to be carried out under Part A of the 
Project and coordination with the Borrower’s implementing agencies. 
2.
The Participating City shall cooperate fully with the MOT as an 
executing agency to ensure that the purposes of the Project will be 
accomplished. 
3.
The Participating City shall inform the Association about any 
investment project for its transport system which significantly affects 
the financial situation of the Participating City, and shall inform the 
Association of the results of relevant feasibility studies in order to 
enable the Association to provide its opinion regarding the project. 
