Page  1
March 27, 2001
His Excellency
Akmataliev Temirbek
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Erkindik Boulevard, 58
Bishkek 720874 
Kyrgyz Republic
Re:
Credit No. 3410 KG (Urban Transport Project)
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
Your Excellency:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the Kyrgyz Republic and the 
International Development Association for the above-mentioned Project dated September 
18, 2000, as amended, (the Credit Agreement), and to the letter of the Minister of 
Transport and Communications of the Kyrgyz Republic dated March 14, 2001, requesting 
amendment to the Credit Agreement.
We are pleased to concur with this request and hereby agree to make the 
following amendment to the Credit Agreement:
1.
In Part C of Section I of Schedule 3 the following new paragraph 3 is added:
"3.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than USD 200,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3. and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines."
2.
Paragraph 2 of Part D of Section I of Schedule 3 is amended to read as follows:
"2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B above and the first 
contract for works to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to 
in Part C.3 above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply."
Please confirm your agreement on behalf of the Kyrgyz Republic with the above 
amendment by signing, dating and returning to us one of the original copies of this 
Amendment 
Letter. The amendment will become effective as of the date of your countersignature, 
upon the receipt of your countersigned letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kiyoshi Kodera 
Country Director
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
By /s/ Akmataliev Temirbek
Page  2
Date:
July 25, 2001
