Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1665 
Operation Name 
PPFDPL-1 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (50%); Banking (30%); 
General finance sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P089116 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND CENTRAL BANK 
Date PID Prepared 
August 3, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 20, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
November 15, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Serbia started the 1990s relatively well integrated with the world economy and with higher standards of 
living compared to many other transition economies. The country’s economy, however, was devastated 
as a result of armed conflicts, international sanctions, and trade shocks stemming from the break-up of 
the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY). By 2000, recorded per capita GDP had fallen to 
below one half of its 1989 level. Foreign trade volumes also fell noticeably, while the country 
experienced chronic high inflation coupled with accumulation of large domestic and external debts, with 
the latter reaching 132.6 percent of GDP in 2000.  
 
Serbia embarked on an ambitious economic program in January 2001 with the objective to reverse the 
trends of the past—through ensuring a rapid transition to an open market economy and normalizing 
relations with international financial markets—and integrate the economy with the European Union.  In 
the period 2001-2004, the Privatization Agency, assisted by the Bank and other donors, achieved 
significant progress in implementing the Government’s privatization program. By the end of 2004, more 
than 1,000 SMEs had been sold in auctions and about 35 large enterprises were sold through tenders, 
most of them to international strategic investors.  
 
Similarly, after a rather protracted start, the Government simultaneously began to strengthen its 
monitoring of banks and the process of merging and divesting its extensive bank and financial asset 
holdings. The offering of financial assets (loans and private enterprise equity stakes) was also delayed, 
though the first such asset sale was recently launched.  
 
Thus, over the past four years, the authorities have achieved significant progress in pursuing an 
ambitious, multi-track privatization program aimed at divestiture of state- and socially-owned assets.  At 
the same time,
 
the GOS continues to provide substantial financial support to state-owned (mainly the 
railroads) and socially-owned companies, representing 2.4 percent and 1.1 percent, respectively, of the 
total budget expenditure. These subsidies create disincentives to the restructuring of the socially-owned 
enterprises and contribute to the persistence of the fiscal deficit in Serbia.  
 
Finally, it is important to note that Serbia differs from most other transition economies in two ways. 
First, its system of socialism, based on worker management and the concept of “social capital,” did not 
entail classic central planning; and secondly, due to the break-up of the former Yugoslavia and the 
resulting conflict and sanctions, Serbia was relatively late in embarking on the journey to a full-fledged 
Page  2
market economy.  These factors meant that the fundamental transitional task of reforming banks and 
public enterprises had to be adjusted to these different initial conditions: in particular, auctions replaced 
voucher privatization (differently from other transition economies), the four largest state-owned banks 
were closed and finally, the approach to restructuring of utilities and of the largest loss makers has been 
more gradual than that of the early reformers. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed Programmatic Private and Financial Development Policy Loan (PPFDPL-1), the first of 
up to two PPFDPLs envisaged through FY07 in the current CAS period, is designed to strengthen fiscal 
discipline in enterprise, energy and transport sectors and develop a more efficient, stable financial 
sector.  Through putting in place a well targeted, key set of irreversible structural reform measures, the 
following development objectives are sought: (i) to permanently reduce subsidies and public enterprise 
staffing levels, thereby facilitating sale and/or restructuring of such enterprises and public utilities; (ii) 
improve the legal and regulatory framework for the mining industry so as to attract green field FDI; (iii) 
substantially divest the government’s remaining holdings in the banking and insurance industries; (iv) 
further strengthen the financial supervisory regime; and (v) provide new opportunities for access to 
longer-term real estate mortgage finance. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Since the beginning of the transition process to democracy and market economy under difficult political, 
economic, and social conditions, Government of Serbia has taken substantial steps in improving 
macroeconomic stability and making good progress on structural reforms with substantial donor support 
yielding positive economic growth. Despite these achievements, the unemployment in Serbia continued 
to increase as a result of ongoing privatization and restructuring efforts; inflationary pressures have 
escalated as electricity tariffs, excise taxes, and oil prices were raised; and local currency depreciated 
against both Euro and US dollar. The Government’s reform program can be summarized in the three 
broad medium-term goals which are outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy for FY05-07: (i) 
creating a smaller, more sustainable, more efficient public sector; (ii) creating a larger, more dynamic 
private sector; and (iii) reducing poverty levels, and improving social protection and access to public 
services. 
 
The Government of Serbia is committed to carrying out the envisaged fiscal, financial and private sector 
reforms, initially launched within the framework of previous World Bank operations, including the two 
prior private and financial sector adjustment credits (PFSAC-I and PFSAC-II) and the Structural 
Adjustment Credit (SAC). While substantial progress has already been achieved under these prior 
operations, further fiscal adjustment and renewed efforts on structural reforms are necessary to bolster 
macroeconomic stability and lay the foundation for sustainable growth. 
 
4. Financing 
 
In accord with the FY05-07 Country Assistance Strategy, this PPFDPL-1 operation is a single-tranche 
loan/credit of US$55 million. The proceeds (20 percent IBRA and 80 percent IDA) would be made 
available to the Borrower upon loan effectiveness, as all policy actions supported by the loan will have 
been completed prior to Board presentation. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
Page  3
The Borrower is the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro.  The proceeds will be made available to the 
Government of Serbia in accordance with the sub-credit agreement to be signed between the State Union 
and the Republic of Serbia.  
The Ministry of Finance will be responsible for overall implementation of the proposed operation and 
for reporting process and coordinating actions among other concerned ministries and agencies. The 
Bank will monitor actions and review progress of the implementation of the proposed operation, as well 
as the subsequent actions of the GOS program by using the short-term and overall program outcomes 
outlined in Annex 3 of the PPFDPL-1 Program Document. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
The proposed PPFDPL-1 will aid the Republic of Serbia realize key economic growth related goals as 
outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) through: (i) strengthening fiscal discipline towards 
SOEs and developing an extraction industry legal framework so as to attract FDI; and (ii) improving the 
efficiency and stability of the financial sector through divesting state-owned financial assets and further 
developing capacity of the regulatory authority.  The envisaged reform program would be consistent 
with the Government’s aspiration for eventual membership in the European Union (EU). 
 
PPFDPL-1 implementation risks are likely to be high.  The current capacity of some public sector 
institutions to implement an ambitious reform agenda, while much improved over the past few years, 
remains relatively weak.  The execution risks will be mitigated through utilization of ongoing technical 
assistance (TA) provided by the Bank and bi-lateral donor community.  Domestic and external political 
risks remain high.  These potential risks could include: (i) reform ‘fatigue’ within government, slowing 
progress; (ii) new Parliamentary elections prior to board date; and (iii) economic sanctions imposed on 
Serbia over failure to send the remaining Hague indictees. The ambitious reform agenda that the DPL 
program proposes to support could create social and political stresses which might test the 
Government’s commitment to reform ahead of the next round of elections.  However, the domestic 
political risks are somewhat mitigated by the domestic consensus across the political spectrum towards 
eventual EU membership. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The ambitious social reform program launched in 2001 has led to higher living standards and reduced 
poverty over the last few years.  However, despite the overall improvement, some groups suffered losses 
and pockets of deep poverty remain. In the near to medium term the reforms supported by PPFDPL-1 
are expected to increase unemployment. For example, the redundancies in the copper mining Bor 
complex in Eastern Serbia, which currently employs 9,000 workers, could reach 6,000 persons over 3 to 
5
years.  Yet, the alternative scenario - without restructuring - will result in an unsustainable fiscal 
burden and eventual collapse (bankruptcy or liquidation) of the enterprises, which would have much 
higher negative social costs. The social impact of the PPFDPL-1 objectives would not be geographically 
concentrated, although one-company towns (such as Bor and the car producer Zastava in Kragujevac) 
would be most affected. The PPFDPL program will seek to provide assistance to the GOS in revising its 
Social Program and the manner in which Transition Fund resources are applied.  
 
In the longer term, the PPFDPL-1 will improve the capacity of the Government to reduce poverty 
through several channels. First, implementation of measures aimed at strengthening fiscal discipline—
through enhancing hard budget constraints and reducing subsidies—will not only improve resource 
allocation and the country’s growth prospects, but also reduce the risk of macroeconomic shocks, which 
can adversely affect the living standards of the poor. Second, reform measures directed at improving the 
Page  4
business climate will create the basis for investments needed for medium-term growth and employment 
creation, and thus for more sustained poverty reduction. Third, policy efforts aimed at building a more 
efficient and stable financial sector will underpin economic growth and increase the resilience of the 
Serbian economy to potential adverse shocks
—both of which are prerequisites for increasing 
employment and reducing poverty. 
 
Environmental issues related to the interventions supported under this DPL program include 
environmental liabilities during the privatization of socially- and state-owned enterprises, impact of 
electricity price increases on fuelwood consumption and sustainable forest management and 
environmental control in mining operations.   
 
8. Contact points 
 
Contact: Michael Edwards 
Title:   Task Team Leader, Principal Financial Adv. 
Tel:  
(202) 473-5370 
Fax:  
(202) 522-3687 
Email:  
medwards1@worldbank.org
Contact: Itzhak Goldberg 
Title:   Task Team Co-Leader, Lead Specialist 
Tel:  
(202) 473-6289 
Fax:  
(202) 522-3687 
Email:  
igoldberg@worldbank.org
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
