                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank



                                      FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY




                                                                                   Report No. 33990-W




                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                                       PROGRAM DOCUMENT


                                           FOR A PROPOSED



FIRST PROGRAMMATICP W A T E AND FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT


           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 38 MILLION (US$55 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                    SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO




                                             October 31,2005




Finance and Private Sector Development (ECSPF)
South East Europe Country Unit (ECCU4)
Europe and Central Asia (ECA)



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

      SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO           - GOVERNMENTFISCALYEAR
                       January 1- December 31

                      CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
           (Exchange Rate Effective as of October 19,2005)

            Currency Unit
              USSl .OO             71.23 Serbian Dinar (CSD)

                             Metric System

              ABBREVIATIONAND ACRONYMS
                      (as applicable, plus others)

ALMP          Active Labor Market Programs
BRA           Bank RehabilitationAgency
BSA           Bankruptcy SupervisoryAgency
BSC           Bank SupervisionCommittee
BSL           Budget SystemLaw
CAD           Current Account Deficit
CAMEL         Capital, Assets, Management, Earnings, and Liquidity
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CEA           Country EnvironmentalAnalysis
CFAA          Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CSD           Serbia Dinar
CTR           Commission for the Protection of Tenderers' Rights
DF            Development Fund
DFID          UK Department for International Development
DIA           Agency for Deposit Insurance
DPCIL          Development Policy CreditILoan
EA             ~xtendedArrangement
EAR           European Agency for Reconstruction
EBRD           European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECA            Europe and Central Asia
EOI            Expression of Interest
EPS            Elektroprivreda Srbije (Serbia's national electric power utility)
ESW            Economic Sector Work
EU             European Union
FA             ~inancialAdvisor
FAU            Fiduciary Assessment Update
FDI            Foreign Direct Investments
FSN            Financial Sector Note
FY             World Bank Fiscal Year
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GNP            Gross National Product
GOS            Government of Serbia
HIPC          Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICA            Investment Climate Assessment
IDA            International Development Association
IFC            International Finance Corporation
IMF            International Monetary Fund
JSA            Joint Staff Assessment
LDP            Letter of Development Policy
MCI            Ministry of Capital Investments
MDGs           Millennium Development Goals
MEM            Ministry of Energy and Mining

                                                           FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY
            MIER              Ministry of International Economic Relations
            MLESP             Ministry of Labor, Employment and SocialPolicy
            MOE               Ministry of Economy
            MOF               Ministry of Finance
            MOH               Ministry of Health
            MSEP              Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection
            MTEF              Medium-TermExpenditure Framework
            MTS ,             Modernized Treasury System
            NBFI              Non-Bank Financial Institutions
            NBS               National Bank of Serbia
            NMICS             National Mortgage Insurance Corporation of Serbia
            NPL    .,         Non-performing Loans
            PA    '           Privatization Agency
            PEIR              Public Expenditure InstitutionalReview
            PFM               Public Financial Management
            PHRD              Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Trust Fund
            PIER              Public Expenditure and InstitutionalReview
            PLC               Paris London Club
            PPFDPC-1          First Programmatic Private and Financial Development Policy Credit
            PPFDPCL           Programmatic Private and FinancialDevelopmentPolicy CredivZoan
            PPL               Public Procurement Law
            PPO               Public Procurement Office
            PRSP              Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
            PSC               Public Service Contracts
            PSN               Private Sector Note
            ROSC              Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes
            SAA               Stabilization and Association Agreement
            SAI               Supreme Audit Institution
            SAC               StructuralAdjustment Credit
            SaM               Serbia and Montenegro
            SAP               Stabilization and Association Process
             SDP              SupervisoryDevelopment Plan
            SDR               Special Drawing Rights
            SEM               Serbia Economic Memorandum
            SME               Smalland Medium Enterprises
            SP                Social Program
             SPA              Sale and Purchase Agreement
             SOB              State-Owned Banks
            SOE               State and Socially-Owned Enterprises
            TF                Transition Fund
            TPL               Third Party Liabilities
            UNDP              United Nations Development Program
            USAID             United States Agency for International Development
            US$               United States Dollar
            ZTP               Zeleznicko Transportno Preduzece - Belgrade Rail Company


                                   Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                               Country Director:       Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                                  Sector Director:     Fernando Montes-Negret
                                 Sector Manager:       Gerardo Corrochano
                          Task Team Co-Leaders:        Itzhak Goldberg 1Michael Edwards




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.                                                                   -


                                               SERBIAAND MONTENEGRO

        FIRSTPROGRAMMATIC                PRIVATE           AND FINANCIAL                    DEVELOPMENTPOLICYCREDIT



  CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY                          ..................................................................................................1

  I.       INTRODUCTION        .........................................................................................................................   3

  I1.       COUNTRY CONTEXT             ...................................................................................................................4
           RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN SERBIAAND MONTENEGRO ........................... 4
           MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY............................................ 6

  I11.      THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM                           ............................................................................................8

  IV .     BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY                                                   .....................................................11
            LINK TO CAS................................................................................................................................... 11
            COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS .....................................................12
            RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS.................................................................... 13
            LESSONS LEARNED .......................................................................................................................14
            ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS .................................................................................................16

  V .       THE PROPOSED FIRST PROGRAMMATIC PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL
            DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT                          ...........................................................................................17
            OPERATION DESCRIPTION...........................................................................................................17
            POLICY AREAS................................................................................................................................   22


  VI .      OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION                          .............................................................................................41
            POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTS...............................................................................................                      41
            IMPLEMENTATION. MONITORING AND EVALUATION........................................................ 42
            FIDUCIARY ASPECTS....................................................................................................................43
            DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING................................................................................................                       44
            ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS........................................................................................................45
            RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION ....................................................................................................                  46

  AhWEX 1:LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY.....................................................................................                                 47
  ANNEX 2: GOVERNMENT POLICY/OVERALL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM .........53
  ANNEX 3: PPFDPC-1 POLICY MATRIX.....................................................................................................55
  ANNEX 4: FUND RELATIONS NOTE .........................................................................................................61
  ANNEX 5: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS ...............................................................................................64
  ANNEX 6: KEY EXPOSURE INDICATORS................................................................................................66
  ANNEX 7: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS ................................................................................67
  ANNEX 8: STATEMENT OF IFC'S HELD AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO ............................................68
  ANNEX 9: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE .........................................................................................................                    69
  ANNEX 10: COUNTRY MAP (IBRD 31506R2) ...........................................................................................                          71


The First Programmatic Private and Financial Development Policy Credit was prepared by an IDA team consisting of
Michael Edwards (Task Team Leader). Itzhak Goldberg (Task Team Co.Leader). Rodney Lester. Laura Ard (OPD);
David Kennedy. Martin Humphreys (ECSIE); Michael Stanley (COCPO); Ilker Dornac (ECSPE); Csaba Feher
(ECSSD);Alexander Pankov. Thomas Muller. Branko Radulovic. Anna Sukiasyan (ECSPF); Tijen Arin (ECSSD);
Siew Chai Ting. Michael Gascoyne. Pascale Kervyn de Lettenhove. Olav Christensen (ECSPS). Gennady Pilch
(LEGEC).


                     CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY

                              SERBIAAND MONTENEGRO

     FIRSTPROGRAMMATICPRIVATE        AND FINANCIALDEVELOPMENTPOLICYCREDIT



Borrower              Serbia and Montenegro


Implementing Agency   Ministry of Finance (MOF) of the Republic of Serbia will be responsible
                      for overall implementation of the proposed operation. Other key ministries
                      and agencies responsible for implementationof the operation will include:
                      Ministry of Economy (MOE), Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social
                      Policy (MLESP), Ministry of International Economic Relations (MIER),
                      Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEM), Ministry of Capital Investments
                      (MCI), Privatization Agency (PA), Agency for Deposit Insurance (DIA),
                     National Bank of Serbia (NBS), Elektroprivreda Srbije (EPS), and
                      Zeleznice Srbije (ZS).


Amount                SDR 38 million (US$55 million equivalent) IDA credit


Terms                 Modified IDA terms with a 20 year maturity, including a 10year grace
                      period, with no acceleration clause.


Tranching             The full IDA credit is expected to be disbursed in a single tranche of
                      US$55 million equivalent.


Description           The proposed First Programmatic Private and Financial Development
                      Policy Credit (PPFDPC-1) will be the first in a series of up to four
                      programmatic Development Policy CreditsILoans (DPCL) designed to
                      support a multi-year program of assistance to the Republic of Serbia to
                      address key institution building and reform challenges in both private and
                      public sectors.

                      The overall programmatic DPCL program aims to support sustainable
                      economic growth and employment creation in Serbia. The objective of the
                      PPFDPC-1 is to support Government of Serbia's (Government or GOS)
                      actions in two broad areas: (i) strengthening the fiscal discipline in
                      enterprise, energy and transport sectors, and attracting foreign direct
                      investment (FDI); and (ii) building a more efficient and stable financial
                      sector and improving access to finance.

                      The objective of the PPFDPC-1 will be achieved through reforms carried
                      out by the GOS which are summarized in two pillars:

                      Pillar 1: Strengthening fiscal discipline:

                               Reduction of Ministry of Economy's subsidy program and
                               strengthening the Transition Fund (TF) mechanisms for displaced
                               workers;
                               Privatization, restructuring and bankruptcy of socially-owned
                               enterprises (SOEs);
                               Strengthening the legal framework for mining concessions;

                              Agreeing upon a time-boundprocess for the interim restructuring
                              of Elektroprivreda Srbije, Serbia's national electric power utility;
                              and
                              Beginning to rationalize the railway sector in accord with a time-
                              bound plan.

                     Pillar 2: Building a more efficient and stable financial sector:

                              Privatization of state-ownedbanks (SOB) and divestment of
                              financial assets;
                              Strengthening the insurance sector regulation and resolution
                              regime;
                              Adoption by the National Bank of Serbia of the second phase of       .

                              the SupervisoryDevelopment Plan (SDP) to address, inter alia,
                              banking sector supervision, regulation and resolutions.
                              Improving access to finance through adoption of a mortgage law.


Benefits             The proposed PPFDPC-1 will aid the Government of Serbia to realize key
                     economic growth related goals, as outlined in the Country Assistance
                     Strategy (CAS) through: (i) strengthening fiscal discipline towards SOEs
                     and developing an extraction industry legal framework so as to attract FDI;
                     and (ii) improving the efficiency and stability of the financial sector
                     through divesting state-owned financial assets and further developing
                     capacity of the regulatory authority. The envisaged reform program would
                     be consistent with the GOS's aspiration for eventual membership in the
                     European Union (EU).


Risks                Implementation risks are likely to be high. The scope of institutional
                     changes that the series of DPCIL operations seek to address are mostly of a
                     medium-tern nature. The current capacity of some public sector
                     institutions to implement an ambitious reform agenda, while much
                     improved over the past few years, remains relatively weak. The execution
                     risks will be mitigated through utilization of ongoing technical assistance
                     (TA) provided by the Bank and bi-lateral donor community. In addition,
                     support from active and proposed Bank projects in social protection, public
                     sector administration will further serve to mitigate risks.

                     Domestic and external political risks remain high. These potential risks
                     could include: (i) reform "fatigue" within the Government; and (ii) fluid
                     political situation in Serbia, with possible early parliamentary elections.

                     The ambitious reform agenda that the programmatic DPCILs propose to
                     support could create social and political stresses which might test the
                     Government's commitment to reform ahead of the next round of elections.
                     However, the domestic political risks are somewhat mitigated by the
                     domestic consensus across the political spectrum towards eventual EU
                     membership.


Project ID Number    PO89116

   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION PROGRAM DOCUMENT
     FOR A PROPOSED FIRST PROGRAMMATIC PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL
         DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT TO SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO



                                        I.        INTRODUCTION

1.        This Program Document presents the first in a series of up to four Programmatic
Development Policy CreditsJLoans(DPCJL)operations to the Serbia and ~ontenegro'(SaM).
As outlined in the FY05-07 Country Assistance strategy, the Bank's assistance in Serbiawill
concentrate on two parallel streams:(i) the development of a robust private sector through the
Programmatic Private and Financial DPCJLs (PPFDPCJL); and (ii) the developmentof a
smaller and more efficientpublic sectorthrough the Programmatic Public Sector DPCJLs. The
two streams of DPCJL are complementaryand will address all three of the CAS goals: (i)
creating a smaller, more efficient public sector; (ii) creating a larger private sector; and (iii)
reducing poverty levels and improving socialprotection. The private sector DPCJL stream
focuses on the first and second CAS goals, while the public sector DPCIL stream concurrently
focuses on achieving the first and third CAS goals.

2.        The proposed PPFDPCJL series is envisioned to build on three policy themes: (i)
strengthening fiscal discipline through enhancinghard budget constraints and reducing
subsidies; (ii) building a more efficient and stable financial sector; and (iii) improving the
investment climate. Concurrently,the proposed Programmatic Public SectorDPCJL series is
expected to support the Government's policy endeavors to (i) create a high quality, fiscally
affordablepublic sector; and (ii) improve the allocative efficiency of public spending-both
of which are crucial for growth, macro stability and the formalization of economic activity.

3.        Under the umbrella of these objectives,the proposed First ProgrammaticPrivate and
Financial Development Policy Credit (PPFDPC-I), in the amount equivalentto US$55
million, is envisionedto contain policy measures aimed at: (i) continuedprogress on
restructuring and privatization of real and financial sector assets; (ii) restructuring and
resolution of large loss-making state- and socially-owned enterprises; (iii) improved access to
finance,particularly for the small and medium enterprise (SME) sector; (iv) energy sector
restructuring; and (v) private participation in infrastructure, in particular strengtheningthe
legal and institutional framework of the mining sector, which has a potential to contribute to
significantFDI in Serbia.

4.        The GOS is committed to carrying out the envisaged fiscal, financial and private
sectorrelated legal reforms, initially launchedwithin the framework of previous Bank-
supportedoperations, including the two prior private and financial sector adjustment credits


'Due to the highly devolved nature of the SaM union (most areas of economic policy are in the competence of
the member republics) and the different starting points, needs and pace of reforms in the two republics, the
Bank's assistanceprogram for SaM is being designed around republic-specific operations. Therefore, for the
purposes of this document, the term "Government" or "GOS" designates the Government of the Republic of
Serbia, unless otherwise specified.
 This report should be read in conjunction with thejoint IBRDIIDAIIFC FY05-07 CAS for SaM presented to the
Board on December 16,2004.

(PFSAC-I and PFSAC-11) and the structuraladjustment credits (SAC and SAC-11). While
substantial legal and structuralreforms have been completed under these prior operations,
further fiscal adjustment and renewed efforts on structuralreforms are necessary to bolster
macroeconomic stability and lay the foundationfor sustainablegrowth. Divestiture of some of
the large loss-making SOEs and overall strengtheningof the fiscal discipline in enterprise,
energy and transport sectors together with a more efficient and stable financial sector
supported by the PPFDPC-1are key for the implementationof structuralreforms that will
reinforce sustainabilityof Serbia's macroeconomicstabilization.


                                 11.     COUNTRY CONTEXT

RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO

5.        Status of the IMF Program. The GOS's medium-term stabilization and reform
program for 2002-05 has been supportedby a three-year Extended Arrangement (EA), which
was approved in May 2002 for a total amount of SDR 650 million. The arrangementwas
extended in May 2005 until December 31,2005. The IMF Executive Board concluded in late-
June 2005 the Article IV consultationwith Serbia and Montenegro and the fifth review of
Serbia and Montenegro's economicperformanceunder the EA.

6.        The completion of the review enabledthe release of an amount equivalent to SDR
125million (about US$182.9 million), which brought the total disbursementunder the
program to SDR 587.5 million (about $US859.7million). In completingthe review, the IMF
Executive Board also approved Serbia and Montenegro's request for waivers of four
performance criteria. In addition, the IMF Executive Board completed a Financing Assurances
Review and approved a request to re-phase the eleventh and final disbursement, which would
become availableupon the completion of the sixth review.

7.        Real Economic Activity. GDP growth is estimated to have reached 7.2 percent-
above the originalprojection of 4-5 percent-in     2004 led by a bumper crop in agriculture and
solid industrial growth supportedby output gains in recently privatized enterprises. Demand
increase was led by a rise in consumption and investment induced by strong credit expansion
and an estimated 11.2percent average increase in real wages. Continued strong demand,
coupled with growing exports, is projected to yield a GDP growth of 4-5 percent in 2005.

8.       Price and Exchange Rate Developments. As a result of largely one-off factors-
administrativeprice increases, higher oil prices, and tax increases-the    inflation rate in Serbia
rose to 13.7percent (y-o-y)in December 2004. The upward trend in the inflation rate has
continued during the first half of this year as retail prices rose by 17.2percent (y-o-y) in
August 2005. The introduction of the value-added tax (VAT),,increasesin the municipal
tariffs, and rising oil prices have been the main contributing factors to the rise in the inflation
rate. Inflationwas also driven by buoyant domestic demand on the back of rapid credit
expansion and--during much of 2004-excessive wage growth. In August 2005, SerbiaDinar
(CSD) depreciated against the Euro and US dollar (USD) by 14.5percent (y-o-y) and 12.9
percent (y-o-y),respectively.

9.       Against the backdrop of decliningdemand pressures coupledwith more controlled
increases in administrative prices and fees, end-periodinflation is projected to decline to 12.3
percent by end-2005. Although risks to the projected inflationrate are to the upside, the
envisaged corrective measures which, inter alia, includetighter fiscal policy stance, will
support attainment of the end year target.

10.      Fiscal Developments. Although fiscal policy was on track for most of 2003 (SaM's
fiscal deficit of 3.3 percent of GDP was 1.2percent below the target), it turned expansionary
in the run-up to the December 2003 electionsin Serbia. Since mid-2004, however, fiscal
policy in Serbia has been tightened beyond program targets to contain the external imbalance
and inflation. The authorities adopted a re-balanced budget for 2004 in order to offset the
spendingoverruns on subsidies, wages and transfers (0.3 percent of annual GDP) during the
first half of 2004 and to reduce the consolidated deficit for 2004 relative to GDP by 0.2
percentage points compared to the originalprogram. According to preliminary data, this in
turn led to a budget deficit for the entire year of CSD 4 billion, which is well below the
originalprogram target of CSD 32.7 billion. The supplementary2005 budget, adopted in July,
provides for a surplus of the consolidatedgeneral government of 1.2percent of GDP
compared to a deficit of 0.3 percent of GDP in 2004.

11.      The 2005 Budget for Serbiatargets a consolidated general budget surplus of 0.5
percent'of Serbia's GDP, suggestingthat tight fiscal policy stance will continue during this
year. In the context of the IMF-supported economicprogram, the authorities are envisaged to
furthertighten the fiscal policy stance to counter upward inflationary pressures and the higher-
than-programmedcurrent account deficit (CAD).

12.      External Developments. Preliminarydata for Serbia suggests that the CAD
deterioratedfurther in 2004 comparedto a programmed improvement of 10.8percent of GDP
(after grants).Preliminary figures indicate that Serbia's CAD (after grants) reached 13.1
percent of GDP due mainly to higher than projected trade deficit, which rose to 31percent of
GDP in 2004 from 23.6 percent of GDP in 2003. Higher oil prices and a one-off large increase
in anticipationof the introduction of the VAT in January 2005 contributed to observed
increasein imports. Preliminary figures for 2005 suggest that the trade balance is improving.
In the first half of 2005, exports rose by 43 percent while imports declined by 5 percent
compared to the pervious year (in dollar terms). Policy tightening coupled with the expected
supplyresponse reflecting acceleration of structuralreform are expected to reduce the current
account deficit (after grants) in 2005 to about 9.5 percent of GDP.

13.      Private remittances remained strong at 17.2percent of GDP in 2004, though FDI
declined to 4.3 percent of GDP as a result of a slowdown in privatization in the first half of
the year. Gross foreign reserves rose to US$4.3 billion (around 3.7 months of projected 2005
imports) at end-December2004. The import coverage of international reserves is expected to
increase to 4 months of prospective imports, reflecting a more prudent policy stance in the
face of projected rise in external debt service arising from the expiration of grace periods
under debt restructuring agreements.

14.      The July London Club agreement,which has reduced SaM's debt to the London Club
by 62 percent in net present value terms, lowered the country's overall debt burden by 7
percentage points of GDP. Although this development had a favorable impact on the debt

dynamics, the increase in mostly private foreignborrowing by 8 percent of GDP kept the
external debt-to-GDP ratio at 62 percent at end-2004. As Serbia received its first rating at B+
from StandardLkPoors (S&P) in November 2004 and has recently been upgraded to BB-, it
appears that the outside world regards economic policy as broadly on track.


MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY

15.       Although the higher-than-projected CAD in 2004 warrants concern, SaM's medium-
term prospects-based          on strong implementation of ambitious reform plans as elaborated in
the recent CAS-are          favorable, with continued progress on key reforms leading to projected
GDP growth averaging 5.4percent per annum in 2004-08 (Table I ) ~The base case scenario
                                                                               .
that was articulated in the CAS contains the following elements: (i) a high quality fiscal
adjustment (based on durable non-interest expenditure cuts) that enhancesmacroeconomic
stability and boosts confidence in the policy framework, thereby stimulatingprivate
investment; and (ii) an accelerationof policy efforts aimed at improving efficiency,including
privatization and enterprise restructuring, along with measures directed at improving
competition and the investment climate.

Table 1: SaM-Medium-tern Macroeconomic Prospects

                                                 Act.  Act.    Est.  Proj.   Proj.  Proj.   Proj.
                                                 2002  2003   2004   2005    2006   2007    2008
National Accounts

GDP (US$ millions) 11                           15,528 20,665 23,996 26,591 28,319 30,485 32,682

Real GDP growth (%)                                3.8    2.7    7.2    4.6    4.8     5.0     5.2
Investment (% of GDP)                             16.0   16.1   17.6   18.4   19.8    21.2   21.6
Gross Domestic Savings (% of GDP)                 -7.3   -5.9  -11.3   -5.3    -3.2    -0.4    1.2

Public Sector Balance (as % of GDP)

Expenditures                                      47.7   46.0   45.5   43.7   43.8    43.7   43.6
 olw public investment                             3.4    2.5    2.7    2.4     3.8     4.2    4.3
Revenue before grants                             43.1   42.7   45.2   44.8   43.8    43.5   43.3
Deficit before grants                             -4.5   -3.3   -0.3     1.2    0.0    -0.2   -0.3

External Accounts (as % of GDP)

Exports of goods and services
Imports of goods and services

Current account balance, (millions of US$) 21   -1,384 -1,996 -3,148 -2,527 -2,790 -2,740 -2,706
Current account balance, as % of GDP 21           -8.9   -9.7  -13.1    -9.5   -9.9    -9.0   -8.3

Indebtedness (external debt)

TDOIXGS 31
TDOiGDP
TDSIXGS 31

Prices

Retail price inflation (e.0.p.)                   14.2    7.6   13.4   12.3     9.0     6.0    4.0

11GDP estimates exclude Kosovo; 21After grants; 31Exports include workers' remittances and factor incomes.


 Serbia's GDP accounts for about 90 percent of SaM's economy.

                                                     6

16.      The envisaged fiscal adjustment will contribute directly to promoting growth and
redressing macroeconomic imbalances. Non-interest current expenditures in relation to GDP
are projected to decline from roughly 41 percent in 2004 to 37.6 percent in 2008, primarily
reflecting reductions in the wage bill, subsidies, net lending and transfers. This adjustment
should have a positive impact on expectations about the future stance of fiscal policy, thereby
lowering the risk premium and paving the way for higher private investment.

17.      Coupled with adjustments on the revenue side and an increase in public investment,
the envisaged cuts in public expenditure as a share of GDP will contribute directly to
promoting growth and redressing macroeconomic imbalances. During the period under
consideration, further efforts to improve tax collection (supported, among other things, by
implementation of bankruptcy legislation) and the introduction of VAT in January 2005
coupled with increase in transfers from profitable state-owned enterprises should boost public
revenues. As the current high tax burden (tax revenues as a share of GDP) remains a barrier to
private sector-led growth and to formalization of economic activity, any such gains in
revenues are expected to pave the way for corresponding reductions in tax rates, particularly
on labor. Together with the adjustment in public expenditure, this should have a positive
impact on expectations about the future stance of fiscal policy, thereby lowering the risk
premium and paving the way for higher private investment. By the same token, public
investment, which has been low, is expected to increase during the projection period. In this
way, the projected fiscal adjustment will be the cornerstone of the country's efforts to lay the
foundations for enduring growth and macroeconomic stability over the medium term.

18.       Greater confidence will help to reverse the observed increase in inflation in 2004,
while an improved public savings-investment balance, coupled with structural reforms, is
expected to have a favorable impact on the current account balance. With greater confidence
in the policy framework (reflecting, among other things, the envisaged fiscal adjustment) and
prudent monetary policy, inflation is projected to decline steadily to 4 percent in 2008.
Concurrently, improvements in the public savings-investment balance and in the
competitiveness of the economy should help reduce the CAD (after grants) from 13.1 percent
of GDP in 2004 to below 9 percent by 2008.

19.      Attaining the noted macroeconomic framework will involve significant financing
requirements, particularly because of rising debt service payments4. Gross external financing
requirements are projected to be around USD 5-6 billion per annum. With the envisaged
improvement in the fiscal balance during the projection period, these financing needs will
shift from the public to the private sector, as the expected fiscal retrenchment will leave more
room for the private sector to tap domestic and foreign markets at favorable terms. FDI is
projected to finance 35 percent of total needs in 2005-08, while long-term loans from
multilateral, bilateral, and other creditors are projected to account for 48 percent. The
remainder will be covered by other capital inflows (short-term credits, capital not-elsewhere
included, and errors and omissions).




 Serbia's implementation performance of the above summarized reform agenda will have important
consequences for the sustainability of its public debt

                                                       7

20.      Serbia's implementation performance of the above summarized reform agenda will
have important consequences for the sustainability of its public debt. In this connection, the
two illustrative scenarios considered in the recent Serbia Economic Memorandum (SEM) can
be illuminating. Thefirst scenario, which aims to illustrate the trajectory of the Serbian
economy under strong policy efforts, including the following key underlying elements such as:
(i) a high quality fiscal adjustment; (ii) a rapid increase in productivity resulting from
structural reforms, privatization, and enterprise restructuring; (iii) an improvement in export
performance; and (iv) strong external inflows including significant FDI. The secondscenario,
on the other hand, aims at demonstrating the implications of unsatisfactory progress with the
implementation of structural reforms in 2004 and onwards. Under this scenario, the GOS
attempts to maintain both the current fiscal policy (through keeping the level and structure of
spending relatively constant) and monetary policy stances.

21.      The strong growth performance under the first scenario would arise from a robust
private sector response engendered by reforms to improve the business climate and the
permanent fiscal adjustment, which would lead to greater confidence in the policy framework.
Under this scenario, the combination of strong economic growth, permanent fiscal adjustment,
and lower interest rates would lead to a favorable debt sustainability outlook as evidenced by
the declining debt to GDP ratio (Figure 1).

22.      Under second scenario, On         Figure 1: The Evolution of Public Debt Under Two Illustrative Scenarios
the other hand, a mixture of poor
fiscal perfomance, low growth-                                                             *-----
arising from the unsatisfactory
implementation of structural
reforms and the failure to attain a
                                             50
high quality fiscal adjustment-and
high interest rates would lead to an         40

unsustainable path for public debt,
which would reach over 73 percent
of GDP by 2010. This, in turn,
                                                     --sScenano2
would erode the country's
creditworthiness and leave the
economy highly exposed to adverse                                                                    2010


shocks, thereby rendering the                 Source Serbla Econom~cMemorandum (2004)
economy more prone to a financial
crisis. Clearly, such a policy environment would not be conducive to pursuing Serbia's social
agenda.


                         111.   THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM

23.      As stressed in the CAS, whilst GOS has made good progress in containing the
accumulation of hidden fiscal deficits, consolidated public spending has steadily increased.
These fiscal deficits threaten growth and macroeconomic stability by: (i) keeping taxes and
interest rates high, thereby crowding out private.activity, discouraging private investment and
encouraging the informal sector; and (ii) reducing fiscal flexibility in the event further
adjustments are later needed. Pillar 1 of the proposed PPFDPC-1 operation aims to break the

vicious circle of a fiscal deficit fueled, inter alia, by subsidies which, in turn, delay real sector
restructuring, hence requiring continued subsidization. Stricter fiscal discipline will not only
be necessary to attain permanent fiscal adjustment, but is required to promote the restructuring
of the real sector. There was a very sizeable reduction in the deficit of the consolidated general
government in 2004 (3 percentage points of GDP). However, most of this reduction reflected
buoyant revenues owing to strong economic growth rather than efforts to contain spending.
Looking forward, the rationale for further fiscal adjustment is not only based on "fiscal
deficits that threaten growth and macroeconomic stability", but also on the need to
compensate for the expected further deterioration in the private sector's saving-investment
balance by generating a further improvement in the public sector's saving-investment balance.

24.      The lessons of experience show that fiscal discipline promotes restructuring because
hardening the budget constraint persuades all parties -unions, workers, managers - that the
present situation is unsustainable. In other transition economies, hardening budget constraint
has proven key for putting the assets, including real estate, of loss-makers back to productive
use. This has been especially helpful to the important SME sector, where entrepreneurs are in
particular need of the land and storefronts, as well as other assets, so often controlled by non-
productive large firms. In particular, the entry, market access and access to credit of SMEs are
crowded-out by un-restructured enterprises that continue to function in a soft budget
environment.

25.      The GOS continues to provide substantial financial support to public, state-owned
and socially-owned companies. The 2005 budget allocates a total of CSD 32 billion to
subsidies for non-financial public corporations, representing 7 percent of the total budget
expenditure. Major recipients of subsidies include enterprises in the agricultural sector (CSD
11billion), the railway (CSD 8.5billion), socially-owned enterprises (CSD 5 billion), and
public media (CSD 2.8 billion). In addition to these direct subsidies, companies receive a
variety of indirect subsidies through un-enforced arrears on utility charges, social
contributions, taxes and credits from state-owned banks. Yet, the GOS now recognizes that
continued subsidization is unsustainable and that a reallocation of funds from direct subsidies,
financing wages and other working capital is essential to finance severance payments, which
accelerate the restructuring efforts.

26.      The Government's on-going commitment to the ambitious program for privatizing
and restructuring socially-owned enterprises is the sine qua non condition for sustainable
growth. Substantial progress has been achieved though auction and tender privatization. Yet,
an acceleration of the restructuring of large SOEs is an important challenge. Among the
prerequisites to achieving such acceleration are the recently adopted amendments to the
Privatization Law, prescribing new rules for restructuring of debt to state creditors.
Furthermore, the implementation of the new Bankruptcy Law is essential to move
restructuring ahead. Building the capacity of the Privatization Agency to act as bankruptcy
administrator of insolvent state- and socially-owned enterprises is an important priority.

27.      The GOS, supported by the Bank and other donors, took several major steps to
improve the Republic of Serbia business environment in 2004, including the adoption of
business-related laws. Previous Bank operations supported wide range of reforms covering
business entry, operations and exit. These reforms improved the regulatory and institutional
framework for business entry through improving the registration system; facilitating efficient

operations of business through reforming the Company Law, and enforcement procedures,
building institutional capacity for regulatory reform, and improving enterprises' access to
finance through the creation of the leasing and pledge registry; and reducing barriers to the
efficient exit and redeployment of non-productive assets through the introduction of the
Bankruptcy Law and helping the creation of the institutional capacity in this area. As a result
of the improved investment climate, the number of new registrations jumped 42 percent
between first quarter of 2004 and first quarter of 2005. As a result new "Doing Business in
2006: Creating Jobs" places Serbia at the top of the list of reformers. While this progress is
impressive, Serbia still lags behind other transition economies, thus hurting its ability to
attract FDI.

28.      Attracting FDI is another priority on GOS priority agenda. Most of Serbia's FDI since
2001 occurred through privatization of SOEs. An increasing interest by foreign investors in
Serbia's mineral resources could bring much needed "greenfield" FDI. To further realize the
sector's potential, the GOS plans to undertake reforms to transition the state from a role of
owner-operator of mineral assets to that of regulator and sector administrator. In particular, the
Government has to: (i) ensure that investors are fairly treated and the envisaged royalties
framework is able to attract private investment by adhering to international standards
regarding competitive taxation, banking, and customs; and (ii) build the capacity to serve
within a regulatory role in accordance with the mining sector's specific requirements.

29.      The restructuring of EPS is another key component of tightening fiscal discipline in the
economy. Following a 10percent power tariff increase in mid-2004 and strengthening of the
sector social safety net, and passage in the third quarter of 2004 of the Energy Law, an Energy
Strategy was adopted by the GOS. The Government also made a decision whereby EPS will be
unbundled into two successor companies (an integrated generation and distributionlsupply
company, and a separate transmission company), and adopted a plan for restructuring of the       .
underground coal mining sector. Regarding tariffs, a 2005 tariff increase will be required to
maintain cost recovery. To this end, EPS was recently authorized a tariff increase of 10%
effective on July 1.

30.      The railway is the largest public utility and imposes a high fiscal cost on the budget
and its early restructuring is critical. The core of the proposed reform in the railway sector is
the new Railway Law, passed in March 2005, required the reorganization of the Belgrade Rail
Company, or Zeleznicko Transportno Preduzece (ZTP). In accordance with the law, a new
railway entity, Zeleznice Srbije, was established, to which the operating assets of ZTP have
been transferred. In addition, ZS has prepared a new five year restructuring plan, which will
be followed by a new five year business plan for 2005-2009, with technical assistance from
EBRD and input fi-omthe World Bank.

31.      Over the past four years, Serbian authorities have improved greatly the legal and
institutional framework providing for a general social safety net. Three main unemployment
programs are now in effect: cash unemployment benefits, active labor market programs, and
severance payments. Serbia's Labor Market Bureau offers a wide range of active labor market
programs, although, inadequate funding and staffing erode their effectiveness. Programs
include advisory and mediation activities targeted to jobseekers (such as vacancy notification
and vacancy andjob fairs), training and retraining, special employment programs for the
disabled, and entrepreneurship assistance.

32.       In March 2002, the GOS adopted a Social Program (SP) providing a range of
compensation and redeployment options for workers in large SOEs dismissed due to
restructuring and privatization. Retrenched workers could receive a package worth, on
average, about Euro 2,000. This sum is quite generous relative to the packages given to
workers in companies outside the SP. Under this scheme, dismissed workers receive about
three times the minimum specified in the Labor Law. However, it is less generous than
packages offered to facilitate large-scale restructuring in other transition economies.
Moreover, it is relatively less generous than similar inducement schemes adopted in
privatization programs in Asia and Latin America, the long-term effects of which have
generallybeen assessed as positive. An amended draft SP is now being discussed by the GOS.
The main changes in comparison to the existing SP are the following: (a) defining the lump
sum severance payment under the SP in Euro terms, Euro 100per recorded year of work
history; (b) introducing contribution and tax waivers for companies employing people laid off
by companies qualifying for participation in the SP; (c) introducing the option of an in-kind
severance benefit; and (d) the option of investing inlpurchasing a workplace for a limited
period of time.

33.       After a rather protracted start, the GOS as shareholder, acting through the Agency for
Deposit Insurance (formerly Bank Rehabilitation Agency or BRA), simultaneouslybegan to
strengthen its monitoring of banks and the process of merging and divesting its bank holdings.
The first majority state-owned bank was sold in January 2005; two other state-owned banks
are currently under contract with foreign buyers and along with a smaller bank, the largest
majority state-owned bank is slated to be offered for sale in late 2005. The DIA's offering of
financial assets (loans and private enterprise equity stakes) has been similarly delayed, though
the first such asset offering has recently been launched.

34.       In parallel, the NBS initiated a series of steps beginning in 2001 to begin to
modernize the regulatory and supervisory framework for banks and more recently, the
insurance sector. Despite recent progress in aligning banking sector regulations with best
practice, the compliance with the Base1 Core Principles is still highly unsatisfactory.

35.       Current limited access to medium and longer term finance and high overall cost of
financing present a major challenge for the development of the financial and enterprise sectors
in Serbia. In an effort to address these recognized deficiencies, the GOS is currently preparing
a draft Mortgage Law, which would improve existing arrangements for valuing collateral and
enforcing mortgages and overall aid in the further development of residential mortgage
finance.


            IV.     BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY

LINK TO CAS

36.       The FY05-07 CAS for SaM sets the strategic context for the programmatic DPC/L
program in three overarching country goals aimed at: (i) creating a smaller, more sustainable,
more efficient public sector; (ii) creating a larger, more dynamic private sector; and (iii)
reducing poverty levels, and improving social protection and access to public services. The
CAS envisages up to four DPC/L operations: PPFDPC-1 and PPSDPL-1 in the base case and

PPFDPCIL-2 and PPSDPL-2 in the high case5.The two streams of DPCIL are complementary
and will address all three of the CAS goals. The private sector DPCIL stream focuses on the
first and second CAS goals, while the public sector DPCIL stream concurrentlyfocuses on
achieving the first and third CAS goals.

37.      This PPFDPC-1 credit would be the first in a series of four Programmatic
Development Policy CreditsILoans designed to support the Government's economicreform
program over a two year period. This operation is funded on full IDA terms as SaM's
eligibility for access to IBRD resourceshas not yet been determined.

38.      PPFDPC-1's objectives are consistent with the key objectives and expected outcomes
during this CAS period under Goal 2 through: (i) continued progress on restructuring and
privatization of real and financialsector assets; (ii) restructuring and resolution of large loss-
making state- and socially-owned enterprises; (iii) improved access to finance, particularly for
the SME sector; (iv) energy and rail sector restructuring; and (v) private participation in
infrastructure, in particular strengtheningthe legal and institutional framework of the mining
sector, which has a potential to contributeto significantFDI in Serbia.

39.       Thereafter, consistent with Goals 1 and 3 of the CAS, the proposed FY06 First
Programmatic Public SectorDevelopment Policy CreditILoan operation envisagespolicy
measures designed to foster: (i) reduction of the public sector wage bill as a share of GDP; (ii)
reduction of social transfers as a share of GDP; (iii) strengtheningpublic administration; and
(iv) enhancing efficiency of public spending.

40.       Going forward through the CAS period, the envisaged PPFDPCIL-2 would be
designed to address the remaining, unfulfilled aims of Goal 2, such as: (i) eliminating any
residual constraints to fiscal discipline as its regards subsidies provided to the SOE sector and
improving the business environmentand existing social safety net for redundant workers of
sold or restructured state-ownedenterprises,rail and utilities sectors; (ii) further measures
needed to strengthenthe bank and non-bank financial sector (including capital markets and
insurance) and its regulatoryregime, with the clear aim to displace government as the owner
(majority or minority) of banks and insurance companies. Altogether, these follow-onreforms
should result in strengthening Serbia's bid for eventual EU membership. A number of
potential PPFDPCIL-2 triggers and programmatic DPCIL program outcomes are featured in
the Policy Matrix (Annex 3).

COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS

41.       The success of reforms in Serbia over the past four years was substantially stimulated
by the effective collaboration and coordination between the Bank and other key donors. The
Bank has maintained a robust dialoguewith the donor community in Serbia in order to avoid
duplication of efforts and leverage support for the GOS' reforms.

42.       During the preparation of PPFDPC-1, the Bank has maintained close working
contacts with the IMF and other donors assisting the GOS in the private, financial, energy, and


 High case lending triggers, outlined in Table 6 of the CAS, include implementation of agreed public
administration reforms, accelerated progress on the divestment of state-owned bank and financial asset holdings,
improvements to the business environment and implementation of energy sector reforms.

railway sectors for the purposes of harmonizing policy recommendations, seeking synergies
among the respective operations, and avoiding overlaps. Initial consultations with the IMF
have centered around the main components of the proposed operation and the Bank's dialogue
with GOS on the proposed reform. The IMF is supporting the GOS through a three-year              '



Extended Arrangement in the amount of SDR 650 million, initiated in May 2002. Both the
IMF and the Bank, along with the donor community, share the goals of achieving a higher
degree of fiscal discipline and strengthening the financial sector through the continued
implementation of structural reforms.

43.       The GOS has received a PHRD grant from the Government of Japan for the
preparation of this operation. Close coordination has been on-going with the US Treasury
advisors on the reforms in banking and insurance sectors; with USAID on banking
supervision reform; and with the EAR on advancing privatization of SOEs with the objective
to strengthen fiscal discipline.

RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS

44.       The private sector stream of the Programmatic Development Policy CreditsILoans
program (the proposed PPFDPC-1 and in the high case, the PPFDPC/L-2) follow closely
from a successful series of two consecutive Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credits.
The PFSAC-I, with a total commitment of USD 85 million, was approved in May 2002 and
closed in June 2003 with a highly satisfactory outcome. This credit focused on putting in place
the initial reforms in the following five areas: (i) banking sector reform; (ii) reform of
socially-owned enterprises; (iii) bank asset and enterprise workouts; (iv) financial sector
regulatory and supervisory framework; and (v) business environment reform.

45.       The recently closed PFSAC-11, with a total commitment of USD 80 million, put in
place the medium-term reforms agreed upon in PFSAC-I. The overall objective of PFSAC I1
was to support the GOS' program of regulatory, institutional, and structural reforms seeking
to significantly accelerate private sector growth through: (i) improving the business enabling
environment by means of comprehensive reform of enterprise entry, operation and exit; (ii)
strengthening the financial system by improving the environment under which banks and
other financial intermediaries operate; (iii) privatizing and/or liquidating outdating majority
state-owned banks that fail to fulfill their role of financial intermediaries; and (iv) privatizing
and restructuring socially-owned enterprises that crowd out private sector growth, hamper
banking sector recovery, and incur significant fiscal and quasi-fiscal costs. One of the key
achievements of the PFSAC program was the reduction of the time to register a limited-
liability company in Serbia from 70 days in 2001 to 40 days in 2003 and to less than 10 days
in 2005, the latter following the introduction of a new business registration system, one of the
most modem and streamlined in Europe.

46.       Implementation of the PFSAC program profited considerably from and was
facilitated through two grants, the Private SectorDevelopment Technical Assistance (PSD
TA) grant and Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance (FSD TA) grant. The
grants provided technical assistance in institutional capacity building for the Privatization
Agency, Agency for Deposit Insurance, Agency for SME, and Serbian Investment and Export
Promotion Agency.

47.      The on-going Privatization and Restructuring of Banks and Enterprises Technical
Assistance Credit builds on the reforms launched in the PFSAC program and supported
through PSD and FSD TA grants, and aims at facilitatingthe private sector growth, in
particular through (i) restructuring and privatization and bankruptcy of large problematic
SOEs; and (ii) implementation of a comprehensivebanking and insurance sector restructuring
strategy targeted at creating a more viable financial sector.

48.      In addition to the reform dimensions outlined in both PFSACs, the Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC) program, implementedthrough SAC, SAC II and SOSAC has also
laid a foundation for implementation of the envisaged PPFDPC-1 reforms. In particular, the
recently closed SAC-I1focused on: (i) improvingthe business climate; (ii) institutional
development and improving performance within the energy sector; (iii) strengthening social
protection; and (iv) improving public administration. The SOSAC supported the GOS in
implementing reforms in social protection, labor, and health with the objectives to: (i) reduce
short- and medium-term fiscal pressures from social programs, through a combination of
entitlement reform, and efficiency improvements; and (ii) maximize the poverty alleviation
impact of a given level of public spending,through improved targeting of, and sustained
access for the poor to services.

49.      The planned Bor Regional Development Project, which is expected to be presented
to the Board in FY07, following the successful completion of the tender for copper mining
and processing conglomerate of RTB Bor, pursues objectives that are cross-reinforcing with
those of PPFDPC-1, as RTB Bor is one of the two single largest recipients of GOS subsidies
among socially-owned enterprises.

LESSONS LEARNED

50.      The PPFDPCILs have built upon the experience accumulated during the preparation
of PFSAC I and 11that started in November 2000, about 30 days after the Serbian "velvet"
revolution. Significant volume of analyticalwork and technical assistance preceded the first
policy operations SAC I and PFSAC I. The PFSAC experience has demonstrated that an
integrated approach is needed to reform of the financial and enterprise sectors in parallel.
Under the earlier PFSAC-I and I1programs, financial sector reform aimed to boost financial
intermediation, encourage domestic savings and generate much needed liquidity to support
real sector expansion. Concurrently, the continued privatization of socially-owned enterprises
(and more recently, banks) and the adoption of early measures to strengthen the business
climate drew in increased foreign investment in 2005.

5 1.     A key lesson from other transition experiences and from the first four years of
transition in Serbia is the need for sequencing: the initial steps should be the immediate goals
of price liberalization and fiscal stability, followed by structural reforms in industrial
enterprises and banks and, only then, in the third stage, pursue reforms in utilities, non-
banking institutions and capital markets. Moreover, due to the political economy of post-
conflict Serbia, it was important to start enterprise privatization with sellable companies - or
"early wins" -and only later move onto restructuring of the politically sensitive large loss-
makers. The focus of the three stage sequencing must include lessons on the timing and design
of social policies aimed at directly addressing poverty reduction and mitigating some of the
adverse social impacts potentially caused by the three transition stages. In parallel, from the

start of the reforms, long-term efforts should be undertaken which are aimed at creating a
robust, transparent regulatory and institutional framework for utilities, financial markets and
the business environment. In the case of utilities, privatization should be preceded by
unbundling and commercialization on the basis of an appropriate market structure; moreover,
the negative experience of some transition countries forewarns that the proper preparation is
required to attract interest from international considerable, reputable strategic investors.
Continued pursuit of these aims will need to be closely aligned and sequenced with GOS'
efforts to provide adequate social protection for those displaced by the envisaged
restructurings andlor privatizations.

52.       Reform implementation is heavily dependent upon an effective champion who takes
the early 'ownership' of the reforms sought. Equally, it is important that the domestic reform
champions are well advised as to the positions assumed and actions taken. For example, the
willingness of key counterparts at NBS and MOF to take key decisions, inter alia, to
significantly reign in regulatory forbearance, take additional robust measures to further
strengthen the bank and insurance regulatory regimes, withdraw licenses of banks and insurers
and offer a number of state-owned banks and assets for sale has enabled key elements of the
financial sector reform agenda to be advanced. Similarly, the effective management of the
enterprise privatization process by MOE and PA facilitated progress in the reforms of the
socially-owned sector.

53.       The ability to provide extensive technical assistance on a timely basis has been crucial
to enabling the PFSAC-I and I1operations to achieve their objectives. The early provision of
substantial grant funding and the effective coordination by the Bank of support from bi-lateral
donors (notably EU, DFID and USAID) for the earlier (and on-going) reform agenda proved
critical for developing institutional capacity at the DIA, PA and NBS to implement early high
impact measures.

54.       Good economic sector work (ESW) contributes significantly to a robust dialogue with
counterparts and successful adjustment operations. In 2004 the Bank presented the GOS a
number of key papers: the Serbia Economic Memorandum; the Financial Sector Note (FSN);
the Investment Climate Assessment (ICA); the Private Sector Note (PSN); the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP); and in December, the Country Assistance Strategy. To aid
in shaping the envisaged PPFDPC-1, in mid-2005 the Bank disseminated a number of other
key reports, namely the Fiduciary Assessment Update, Public Expenditure Review,
Accounting and Auditing Report on Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) and
Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) reports.

55.       Finally, it is important to note that Serbia differs from most other transition
economies in two ways. First, its system of socialism, based on worker management and the
concept of "social capital," did not entail classic central planning; and secondly, due to the
break-up of the former Yugoslavia and the resulting conflict and sanctions, Serbia was
relatively late in embarking on the journey to a full-fledged market economy. These factors
meant that the fundamental transitional task of reforming banks and enterprises had to be
adjusted to these different initial conditions: auctions replaced voucher privatization
(differently from other transition economies), the four largest state-owned banks were closed
and finally, the approach to restructuring of utilities and of the largest loss-makers has been
more gradual than that of the early reformers.

ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS

56.      The PRSP rightly emphasizedthat improvementsin the business environment are key
preconditions for sustainableprivate sector-ledgrowth. The strategyfor Serbia acknowledges
the need for streamliningthe registration process, reducing administrativebarriers to business
operation, improving corporategovernance, and establishinga modem bankruptcy regime.
Similarly,comprehensivereform of the financial sector represents an important cornerstoneof
governments' growth strategy.The SerbianPRSP correctly identifies the short- to medium-
term actions needed to strengthenbank supervision,restructure and privatize remaining state-
owned banks, and improve access to finance. With proper implementation,these reform steps
should help significantlyin allowing the Serbian financial system to play its proper role in
channelingresources into productive investments.

57.      In the energy sector,the PRSP notes that Serbianeeds to move towards a more cost-
reflective tariff structure. In the transport sector, the government strategyunderscores the
importance of the road transport sector in infrastructure investment.Efforts to improve
railways,ports and marine transport and rural roads, the condition of the main and secondary
road networks also require considerable improvement.

58.      The PPFDPCILprogram heavily relies on findings of the extensive economic sector
work undertaken by the Bank. The policy recommendationsintegrated into the relevant
components of the PPFDPCIL are stemming from the three key documents - PSN, ICA and an
accompanyingFSN, - as well as other diagnostic work by the Bank and other institutions.

59.      Accordingto an empirical analysis in the ICA and the PSN, private firms are more
productive than socially-owned firms, i.e. ownership matters. But post-privatization
performance does not necessarily show that privatization improves firm performance; rather it
may indicate that only the better, higher potential firms get privatized first. The results for new
entrants,however, are unambiguous: new private firms in Serbia are more productive, more
profitable, and growing more rapidly than socially-ownedfirms. The problem is simply that
there are not enough of them. Although the new private firms are better performers, their
scope for growth, and the possibility of entryby new entrepreneurs,are severely limited by the
deficient investment climate. The implementation of recently drafted legislation aimed at
improvingbusiness entry, corporate governance, access to finance, and business exit requires
long and extensive institutional building to take effect.

60.      Despite the impressive reform progress described above, the FSN demonstrates that
Serbia's financial sectorremains underdeveloped by regional benchmarks, and the existing
level of financialintermediation is unable to fully contributeto economic growth. The bank-
by-bank performanceanalysispresented in the FSN shows that the cost, profit and other
efficiencyparameters of Serbianbanks have more in common with the non-Baltic countries of
the former Soviet Union than with the neighboring Central European economies. Moreover,
the best quartile of Serbianbanks, while clearly outperformingthe rest of the banking system,
accounts for only a minority of total banking system assets.Narrowing the efficiency gaps
between the better and the weaker Serbian banks, and between the better Serbian banks and
the leading CEE and EU banks, will be the key to increasingthe level of financial
intermediationin Serbia. This requires creating the conditions under which the weaker banks
lose ground rapidly to the better banks either through the liquidation of the weaker (mostly

state-owned) banks, or their rapid re-invention, through new strategic investment. In parallel,
the development of non-bank financial institutions (NBFI), such as insurance companies,
could offer a broader array of intermediary services and instruments, often unavailable from
banks.


   V.       THE PROPOSED FIRST PROGRAMMATIC PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL
                                      DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT

OPERATION DESCRIPTION

61.        The PPFDPC-1,the first of up to four development policy lending operations
envisaged under the FY05-07 CAS, is designed to strengthen fiscal discipline in enterprise,
energy and transport sectors and develop a more efficient, stable financial sector. Through
putting in place a well targeted, key set of irreversible structural reform measures, the
following development objectives are sought: (i) permanently reduce subsidies and staffing
levels at SOEs and public utilities, thereby facilitating their restructuring and ultimate
privatization; (ii) improve the legal and regulatory framework for the mining industry so as to
attract green field FDI; (iii) substantially divest the government's remaining holdings in the
banking and insurance industries; (iv) further strengthen the financial supervisory regime; and
(v) provide new opportunities for access to longer-term real estate mortgage finance. A
summary of agreed PPFDPC-1prior actions are included in the Policy Matrix (Annex 3) and
the agreed conditions are featured in the Box 1below.


                                       Box 1. Conditionality for PPFDPC-1

The GOS has agreed upon and implemented the following prior actions before the presentation of the credit to the
Bank Board of Directors:

 1.The macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower and the Republic of Serbia is satisfactory, as measured
on the basis of indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Republic of Serbia, and the Bank.

2. (a) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia to
decrease the direct subsidies to socially-owned enterprises undergoing restructuring from CSD 5 billion, allocated
for such purposes in the 2005 State Budget, to CSD 3.85 billion in the 2006 State Budget.

(b) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has agreed to make available CSD 4.5 billion from the Transition
Fund for severancepayments to employees of socially-owned enterprises, such enterprises having been set forth in
the list agreed upon by the Bank.

3. Starting December 1, 2004: (i) the Privatization Agency of the Republic of Serbia has offered for sale no less
than eighteen socially-owned enterprises and sold at least nine socially-owned enterprises through its tender
program; (ii) the PA offered for sale through auctions no less than 180 socially-owned enterprises, and sold at least
40 percent of such socially-owned enterprises; (iii) the PA has offered for sale no less than eight socially-owned
enterprises, or significantparts thereof (i.e., representing no less than 50 percent of the total assets), from the list of
enterprises undergoingrestructuring, using, as applicable, tenders, auctions and asset sales procedures, and sold at
least three socially-ownedenterprises set forth in the restructuring list; and (iv) Republic of Serbia owned or
controlled creditors have requested the courts of the Republic of Serbia to initiate bankruptcy proceedings for at
least six large state owned enterprises set forth in the restructuring list.

4. The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia
 amendmentsto the Law on Mining, satisfactory to the Bank, incorporating a new royalties framework.

                                Box 1. Conditionality for PPFDPC-1 (continued)


5. The Government of the Republic of Serbia has launched an international tender to engage a financial advisor for
Elektroprivreda Srbije, in accordancewith terms of references and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

6. Zeleznice Srbije has reduced ZS staff engaged in core ZS activities by 1900, or 7.2 percent of total ZS core staff
of 26,212 employed as of January 1,2005, and ZS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have adopted the
2005 Business Plan, satisfactoryto the Bank.

7. The Agency for Deposit Insurance of the Republic of Serbia has offered for sale, on behalf of the Government of
the Republic of Serbia, a majority (i.e., more than 50 percent) of Vojvodjanska banka shares.

8. The amendments to the Insurance Law have been enacted, and are satisfactory to the Bank.

9. The Supervisory Review Committee of the NBS Banking Supervision Department and the Governor of the
National Bank of Serbia have adopted the second phase of the Supervisory Development Plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, and the NBS Banking SupervisionDepartment has continued its implementation.

10. The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia a draft
Law on Mortgage, satisfactory to the Bank.



62.      Strengthening Fiscal Discipline. The GOS continues to provide substantial financial
support to state-owned (mainly the railroads) and socially-owned companies, representing 2.4
percent and 1.1percent, respectively, of the total budget expenditure. These subsidies create
disincentives to the restructuring of the state- and socially-owned enterprises and contribute to
the persistence of the fiscal deficit in Serbia. In addition to these direct subsidies from the
government budget, companies occasionally receive indirect subsidies in the form of un-
enforced arrears on utility charges, social contributions, taxes and credits andlor forbearance
from state-owned banks.

63.       The GOS has undertaken early efforts to reduce the overall direct subsidies to
socially- and state-owned enterprises in the Serbian economy in order to signal that it will not
provide indefinite support to the loss-making companies, and to stimulate the restructuring of
those companies and their privatization. To this end, the 2005 budget included a reduction of
the MOE direct subsidies to socially-owned enterprises in the process of restructuring from
CSD 6.5 billion in 2004 to CSD 5 billion in 2005. Further decreases are envisaged in 2006 as
discussed below. In parallel, the GOS is to increase the allocation to the Transition Fund in
order to facilitate severance of redundant labor, which both spur restructuring and increase
privatization prospects. Finally, while recently there were first signs of the strict enforcement
of disconnection policies towards worst offenders, the GOS has to make further concerted
efforts to block this subsidy route. To this effect, the MOE in cooperation with the tax
authorities and main utilities needs to improve monitoring system for the large SOEs in order
to ensure the full enforcement of hard budget constraints and to prevent further accumulation
of arrears.

64.      Privatization, Restructuring, and Bankruptcy of Socially-Owned Enterprises.
Continued existence of a large SOE sector requiring public support imposes considerable risks
of disrupting fiscal discipline and represents one of the main challenges facing the Serbian
economy today. Most of the sector remains inefficiently organized, loss-making, and

excessively indebted. SOEs continue to benefit from non-competitive regulations, blocking
potential competition from the private sector.

65.      Over the past four years, the authorities have achieved significant progress in
pursuing an ambitious, multi-track privatization program aimed at divestiture of socially-
owned assets. The Government is committed to complete, to a large extent, the privatization
program started in 2001 by offering for sale all SOEs currently in the PA tender and auction
portfolio, and all saleable assets from the restructuring portfolio. In particular, the
restructuring and subsequent privatization of large loss-making SOEs are expected to
accelerate with the passage of the amendments to the Privatization Law related to debt
restructuring. For SOEs that fail to attract reputable buyers, bankruptcy procedures will be
initiated under the new insolvency regime.

66.      Concessions. Serbia needs to continue strengthening its legal and regulatory
framework and appropriate implementing institutions that will support further inflow of FDI.
So far, the bulk of Serbia's FDI since 2001 occurred through privatization of SOEs. However,
concessions could bring much needed "greenfield" FDI. The first major step in improving
regulatory environment was the adoption of the "framework" Concessions Law in 2003.
However, for its implementation sector-specific laws and institutional framework are very
important. In the area of research and exploitation of mineral ores, the legal and regulatory
framework conducive to private sector investment is generally defined in the Law on Mining
(1995) and Law on Geological Exploration (1995). Recently, an effort to improve the existing
framework by amendments to both of these laws has begun. In addition, the GOS has yet to
define an overarching sector strategy towards mining in Serbia and to establish clear rules
regarding royalties.

67.      Energy Sector. Following the third quarter 2004 passage of the Energy Law and
strengthening of the energy sector social safety net, a number of measures to support energy
sector reform were undertaken in late 2004. In particular, an energy strategy was adopted by
the GOS, members of the board of the new energy regulator have been proposed to the
Parliament and the Government agreed to unbundle EPS into two successor companies and to
adopt a longer term plan for restructuring. Additionally, EPS was granted a tariff increase
from July 1,2005in order to maintain cost recovery.

68.      Railway Sector. Serbian Railways ZS (former ZTP) has a network of 3,809 route km,
of which 1,724krn are mainline and 1,247are electrified. The former ZTP was heavily loss-
making. In 2003, subsidiesprovided 63 percent of total revenue, while freight and passenger
businesses provided only 25 percent and 9 percent, respectively. On the expense side, labor
accounted for 30 percent (55 percent of expenses requiring cash), while depreciation was 47
percent. ZTP had produced an operating loss of CSD 11billion in 2003. The subsidy of CSD
10.2billion was sufficient, however, to allow ZTP to cover its cash operating costs. ZTP had
poor resource productivity. Labor productivity (measured by traffic units produced per
employee) and network density (measured by traffic units per track-km) are both much lower
than railways with similar traffic. The management of former ZTP had recognized this, and
has developed plans to reduce excess staff, stations and track.

69.      Financial Sector. Relative to the size of the economy,the banking sector remains
overpopulated and fragmented:there is clear scope for further consolidation of the domestic
banks, some of which are very small and provide only local or regional coverage.

70.      The NBS has recentlyrecognized a number of deficiencies in the existing banking
and insurance legislation and, in collaborationwith the MOF, is in the process of preparing a
new and substantially revised banking law. The new law will incorporatenumerous changes
to be substantiallyin line with EU banking directives and best practice. In addition, law
amendments are currentlypending on the introduction of a new deposit insurance scheme,
bank liquidation procedures, insuranceresolutions, etc. Moreover, the NBS raised the
minimum bank capital requirement to Euro 10million and the risk adjusted capital adequacy
ratio to 10percent from 8 percent as of January 2005. Although the regulatory framework for
banking sector is now largelyin place, the capacityof supervisors to adequatelyassess risks
and undertakeprompt corrective actionsremains limited.

71.      The recent FSAP mission concluded that the financial system is broadly stable,but
that the main potential systemicvulnerabilitiesare: (i) banks' credit risk, exacerbatedby 47
percent growth of lending (mostly foreign exchange linked) in 2004 and a reported 23 percent
non-performing loan ratio at end 2004; and (ii) the 15majority and minority held state-owned
banks, most of which are not competitive and only a few others (including the largest) are
slated for privatization by early 2006.

72.      Additionally, the recent Base1Core Principle assessment, conducted as part of the
FSAP, provided a rather negative assessmentof bank supervision, which raises concerns as to
the quality of banks' financial reporting. Moreover, the capacity of supervisors to adequately
assess risks and undertake prompt corrective actions remains limited, especially towards state-
owned banks. As well, the lack of consolidatedsupervision of banking groups is an important
gap which could impact the solvency of suchbanks.

73.      Further, the insurance sector has begun to undergo sweeping change, as responsibility
for the regulation and supervision of the insurance sector was transferred in mid-2004 to the
NBS with passage of a new law. The insurance industry, long dominated by two socially
owned insurers, has recently experiencedthe closure of 18private insurance companies.
Foreshadowingadditional changes, the GOS is prepared to launch the divestment in 2005 of
one of the two largest socially-ownedinsurers,whilst restructuring the other for its eventual
sale. Moreover,there remains considerable scope for further consolidation within the sector as
the NBS undertakes on-site examinations of the remaining insurers.

74.      Access to Finance. Administrativebarriers, limited access to finance and high cost of
financingare still major impediments to successfulbusiness development. Through passage of
a new Mortgage Law, the GOS intends to improve the efficiency of mortgage creation and
enforcement,which inhibits development of the secondarymortgage markets and mortgage
securities.

75.      In addition to the above agreed Board presentation conditionality, Box 2 outlines the
triggers for the follow-onPPFDPC-1 operation. Overall program outcomes envisaged through
the FY07 CAS period are featured in the last column of the Policy Matrix (Annex 3).

 76.        Principal benefits of the proposed PPFDPC-1 operation center around key structural
 reforms that will reinforce sustainabilityof Serbia's macroeconomic stabilization by: (i)
 strengthening fiscal discipline; (ii) building a more efficient and stable financial sector; and
 (iii) further improving the investment climate. In particular, to put its finances on a more
 sustainable basis, the GOS, as part of the PPFDPC-1 program, is to reduce on-going subsidies
 so as to facilitate staff redundancies, permitting the restructuring andlor sale of affected state
 enterprises and targeted public utilities. Only when such chronic loss-makers are resolved
 through sale or commerciallyviable restructuring will the GOS be immune from these regular
 fiscal pressures. Secondly,the efficiency of the financial sector - and indirectly the GOS'
 contingent liabilities -will be reduced through the PPFDPCILprogram, which aims to
 substantially reduce the Government's holdings in the banking and insurance sectors and to
 sell down or resolve its large financial asset holdings. Additionally, by further strengthening
 the regulatory and supervisoryregimes, the stability of the financial sector will be improved,
 which in combination with a more stable macro-economic environment will increase
 borrowers' access to longer term real estate finance and further improve the investment
 climate. In sum, the envisaged policy measures underlying PPFDPC-1 will contribute to an
 irreversible and measurable impact upon the reform of the Serbian economy.


                                            Box 2. Triggers for PPFDPCL-2

As part of the series of programmatic creditslloans, the Government has agreed on the following actions as triggers
for moving to PPFDPCIL-2:

1.    Reduction in the direct MOE subsidies in the 2006 budget to CSD 3.85 billion.

2.    Starting on October 1,2005, the PA will: (i) offer for sale no less than 18 SOEs and sell at least 9 through its
tender program; (ii) offer for sale through auctions no less than 450 socially-owned enterprises, and sell at least 40%
of them; (iii) offer for sale no less than 25 SOEs from the list of companies under restructuring, or significant parts
thereof (i.e., representing no less than 50% of the total assets), using, as applicable, tenders, auctions and asset sales
procedures, and sell at least 7 SOEs from the same list.

3.    Starting on October 1,2005, Republic of Serbia-owned or controlled creditors will request the courts to initiate
bankruptcy proceedings for: (i) at least 8 large SOEs from the Restructuring List; and (ii) a number of additional
SOEs that have unsuccessfully been offered for sale twice through auction or tender.

4.    The Government of the Republic of Serbia will submit the Take-over of Companies Law and amendments to
Securities Markets Law to the Parliament.

5.    Regulations that define procedures for assessment of annual mineral production, surface and filing fees:
royalties and payment procedures, and resolution of disputes and conflicts are in place.

6.    Financial Adviser to deliver to GOS recommendations on restructuring of EPS. Regulatory framework is in
place providing for transparent rules for setting cost recovery tariffs.

7 .   Core ZS staff have been reduced by a further 1,000 employees, or 3.8% of total ZS core staff as of January 1,
2005. ZS has withdrawn passenger services from a further 6.3 percent (218km) of the network by about mid-2006,
unless service specific PSCs are agreed. ZS has transferred 3 additional non-core activities to PA.

8.    Vojvodjanska banka sale or resolution consummated. Sale launched for at least two minority-owned banks held
as of end-2004. Upon Commercial Court of Belgrade approval, second NPL package offered for sale.

9.    Liquidators have submitted opening financial statements for all 18 insurers closed. DDOR is in process of
privatization. The independent diagnostic audit report of Dunav has been submitted to MOF, and a time-bound
restructuring plan prepared, adopted by GOS and implementation begun by DIA.

10. By-laws needed to implement the new Banking Law are in place, including by-law(s) addressing sound risk
management processes and accurate and timely reporting of risks.

11. By-laws or regulations, if any, needed to support implementation of Law on Mortgage adopted

POLICY AREAS

PILLAR I      - Strengthening       fiscal discipline

77.       The recent CAS identified the strengtheningof fiscal discipline as a priority for the
sustainable success of Serbia's economic development. The proposed operation will improve
fiscal discipline through: (i) phasing out of direct and containingindirect subsidies; (ii)
acceleratingprivatization of socially-ownedenterprises(iii) effectiveimplementation of
bankruptcy legislation; (iv) developing a more robust framework for mining concessions; and
(v) continuation of the unbundling and restructuring (workforceand debts) of public utilities.


Policy Area 1.1: Reduction of MOE subsidyprogram and strengthening of the TF
mechanism

78.       Description. The major recipients of the MOE direct subsidies are among some 60
large socially-ownedenterprisesthat have been slated for restructuringby the GOS. The 15
largest subsidyrecipients among the companies in restructuring in 2001-2004 represent 57
percent of the total subsidyprogram. Zastava Automobili, the car manufacturer in Kragujevac
in Central Serbia (26 percent), and a copper mining and processing complex, RTB Bor, in the
less developed Eastern Serbia (13 percent) are by far the two singlebiggest recipients of
subsidies. Yet, as of end-2004 firms on the restructuring list employed 103,045,which
represents a reduction of about 23 percent from 2002, a clear indication that significant
downsizinghas taken place. Furthermore, there is a clearlyprogressive reduction of personnel
as the enterprisesmove closer to privatization: the reduction was 30 percent in firms in tender,
20 percent in mid-process and 6 percent before privatization started.

79.       Challenge.Many SOEs survive only because they receive new money from the state
or state-influencedsources.In 2003, for example, 52 of the largest SOEs posted almost Euro
200 million in aggregate (mostly cash-flow) losses, and their debt increased by more than
Euro 150million. These companies continue to operate despite these substantial losses
because they receive new money through various forms of direct and indirect government
support: non-payment or partial payment of taxes; arrears to state-ownedutilities, arrears to
other state-owned financial institutions and the MOE subsidieswhich are used for supporting
current operationsand clearing arrears rather than investment.

80.       Over the past 4 years, the Government has reduced the number of employees in the 15
biggest subsidy-receiving socially-owned enterprises from roughly 90,000 employees to
54,000, (a total (net) reduction of 36,000). Labor reductions in 2003 were circa 22,000
employees,declining substantially in 2004 to some 10,000.It has been estimated that there
will be a need for some 18,000redundancies in 2005 and 21,000 in 2006 from all companies,
of which 10,000and 13,500respectively will come from enterpriseswithin the
RestructuringPrivatization Program. The cost of these terminations from the Transition Fund,
at some Euro 2,500 per employee6,has been estimated at about Euro 57 million a year for


 The standard amount for calculation purposes is 2,000 Euros per employee, but we have estimated costs
conservatively at 2,500 Euros per employee due to the pressures coming from higher settlements with SOEs and
a potential for inflation adjustment of the amount based on a 2002 agreement.

                                                        22

2005 and 2006. Two large companies,Zastava and RTB Bor, reflect the largest need, where
the required level of redundancyis estimated at 9,000 and 6,500 personnel respectively. While
direct subsidies represent a recurrentburden on the budget, severancepayments to redundant
employees are a one-time payment which allows companiesto decrease their labor force and
wage bill, thus making the reduction in direct subsidiesmore sustainable.

81.       Government Actions. The Government actions include two main areas: (i) Reduction
in the MOE direct subsidies, and (ii) strengtheningof a redundancypayment mechanism to
compensate surplus labor through the TF', a budgetary item, which received a CSD 5 billion
budget allocation in 2005. The MOE direct subsidies allow loss-making companies to survive
without painful restructuring and thus do not provide incentives to management and
employeesto cooperate, which is crucial to encourage poorly performing firms to push ahead
with restructuring, thereby releasing non-core assets to higher productivity users, and
encourageviable enterprisesto actively search for new markets and reduce costs. In particular,
the entry, market access and access to credit of SMEs are crowded-outby un-restructured
enterprisesthat continue to function in a soft budget environment.Moreover, the TF resources
to date are not sufficient to financethe amount of redundanciesrequired to facilitate
privatization and restructuring of large SOEs and public utilities.

82.       Bank's Assessmenr/Recommendation. As analyzed in the PSN, the MOE subsidy
program not only contributes substantiallyto the fiscal deficit, it also represents a potential
disincentive to restructuring and privatization of the companies that receive subsidies.The
continuation of subsidies results in material disincentives for management and employees in
the recipient companies to progress with restructuring and resolution. Redundanciesmust be
resolved before privatization because offering a companywith the redundant labor risks
deterringinvestors altogether as the investor places high risk on implementing the redundancy
package. Moreover, as the privatization of a companyis closer, employees are less willing to
leave the company,hoping for wage increases by the new owner. Given the scarcityof TF
resources and in order to increase net budget proceeds from privatization, TF payments need
to be focused only on companies in which the availabilityof TF severancepay can make the
differencewhether a companyis sellable or not. The Government agreed with the Bank about
a target list of companies for budget-financed social programs that will include only
companiesthat, based on the study of the consultants of the PA and the opinion of the
Financial Advisors, can be made sellable by decreasing the cost of severance to potential
investors.

83.       As mentioned above, in addition to the direct subsidies from MOE, many SOEs
benefit from indirect subsidies in the form of un-enforced arrears on utility charges and
various social and tax obligations. The Bank seeks to eliminate this source of soft budget
constraintsby assisting the GOS with restructuring of EPS and NIS in preparation for their
eventual privatization. In parallel, the MOE, in cooperation with the tax authorities and main
utilities, will establishmonitoring system for the large SOEs in order to ensure the full
enforcement of hard budget constraints and to prevent further accumulation of arrears.

84.       Measures to be Undertaken as Part of the Proposed PPFDPC-I. In order to speed-
up restructuring,the MOE will commit to decrease the direct subsidies to socially-owned

'In reality, the "Transition Fund" is not a fund as it does not have either capital or personnel

                                                         23

enterprises in restructuring from CSD 5 billion in 2005 budget to CSD 3.85 billion in 2006.
Secondly, to encourage restructuringand to mitigate social implications of the lay-offs
resulting from the decreasing subsidies,the transition fund budgetary allocation in the amount
of CSD 4.5 billion will be made available in 2006 budget. To ensure that severance pay will
be used for employees in companiesthat are most likely to be privatized, a list of such
companies for 2006 (includingthe number of redundancies per company)has been agreed
upon.

85.      Triggersfor PPFDPC/L3. Reduction in the direct MOE subsidies in the 2006
budget to CSD 3.85 billion.


Policy Area 1.2: Privatization, Restructuring, and Bankruptcy of Socially-Owned
Enterprises

86.      Description. To release the assets held by the SOEs for productive use, the GOS
embarked in 2001 on an ambitious,multi-track privatization program, which sought to
incorporate international best practice and lessons learned from more than a decade of
experience in other transition economies. The Privatization Law (issued in 2001, amended in
2003 and 2005) stipulates three methods of privatization: (i) tenders of large enterprises,
offering to a strategic investor at least 70 percent of the shares; (ii) auctions of small and
medium-sized enterprises; and (iii) restructuring and subsequent tenders and auctions of a
select group of large, presently loss-making but potentially viable enterprises or parts thereof.

87.      In the period 2001-2004, the PA, assisted by the Bank and other donors, achieved
significant progress in implementing the Government's privatization program. By the end of
2004, more than 1,000 SMEs had been sold in auctions and circa 35 large enterprises were
sold through tenders, most of them to international strategic investors. Notwithstanding
difficult political environment, the overall scope, pace and transaction quality of these early
privatizations compared favorablyto similar stages of reform in other transition economies.

88.      Challenges. Despite the impressive progress, only a fraction of the overall enterprise
sector has been turned over to fully private, new and dynamic owners. With the share of
employment in private enterprises consistent with the EBRD's estimate that 50 percent of
Serbian GDP is produced in the private sector as of mid-2004~,Serbia compares unfavorably
to the neighboring transition economies (80 percent in Hungary and the Czech Republic, 75
percent in Bulgaria and in Poland, 70 percent Romania, 65 percent in Slovenia and FYR
Macedonia, and 60 percent in Croatia). As noted above, the financially (and politically)
damaging role of the SOE sector in the Serbian economy is highlighted by the continued
prevalence of direct subsidies and soft budget constraints.

89.      The core of the problem is located in some 60 loss-making, heavily indebted
industrial conglomerates, which employ about 100,000people and have been selected by the
authorities to undergo organizational and/or financial restructuring as they cannot be sold in
their current condition. Despite the extensive technical assistance funding provided by the
Bank and other donors, the PA has achieved only limited progress with resolution of these


 EBRD, Transition Report 2004.

SOEs, with only a handful of companies from the restructuring list, or significant parts
thereof, having been sold in the recent months.

90.      Apart from continued existence of soft budget constraints, the lack of cooperation
among state creditors and the absence of effective insolvency regime have been identified as
two key obstacles to the resolution of companies in restructuring. The major creditors of these
SOEs are state-controlled (or heavily state-influenced) entities tax authorities, social funds,
                                                                 -

public utilities, state-owned banks (some in bankruptcy process) -which typically hold about
three quarters of the company's total debt. However, in contrast to private creditors, the state-
controlled or influenced creditors have been reluctant to accept any write-down that could
facilitate privatization process. At the same time, the credible exit mechanism for unsaleable
SOEs has long been absent in Serbia due to historical weakness of the bankruptcy regime,
with court procedure lasting for seven years on average.

91.      Government Actions. The GOS is committed to offer for sale all SOEs currently in
the PA tender and auction portfolio, and all saleable assets on the restructuring list, by the end
of 2006. In parallel, the SOEs that have failed the market test will be subject to bankruptcy
under the new insolvency framework

92.      Auctions. The GOS is committed to complete the very successful auction
privatization program started in 2002. In 2004, around 380 companies were offered for sale
and 260 of these were sold, a success rate of 68 percent. In the first nine months of 2005, 180
enterprises are expected to be offered for sale through auction, and additional 550 auctions
will be held until the end of 2006, with the success rate forecasted at 40 percent. The obvious
slowdown should not be cause for concern as the decline in number and quality are a result of
the early success of the program and the finite number of companies available for sale. Given
that the vast majority of buyers are given six years to pay, the PA will need to strongly
monitor these payments over time.

93.      Tenders. Tender sales accounted for almost all FDI that came to Serbia in 2002-2004
(so-called "brownfield" investment). Therefore, attracting reputable strategic investors for the
relatively attractive SOEs remains a priority. At the moment some 30 large SOEs remain in
the PA's tender pipeline. With the help of TA provided by the Bank and other donors, the PA
has engaged international financial advisors to prepare and execute tenders for these
enterprises. Depending on their size and financial condition, enterprises that attract no
satisfactory bids in the tender process will be either auctioned or put into restructuring or
bankruptcy.

94.      Privatization through Restructuring. Accelerating the restructuring of large loss-
making SOEs, and their subsequent divestiture through, as applicable, tender, auction, and
asset sales procedures, constitutes one of the Government's key challenges in the near to
medium term. This process is expected to be greatly facilitated with the passage of the
amendments to the Privatization Law related to debt restructuring. The amendments make
possible increased use of debt restructuring by the state and state-controlled entities to
facilitate the privatization of large SOEs. To avoid generating moral hazard, the debt
restructuring will become effective only at the moment of sale. The privatization proceeds
from the sale of the debtor company will be distributed among the creditors proportionally to
the amount of debt restructured, up to the nominal amount to their debts. Very importantly,

the central coordination of public bodies having claims will be necessary if the legislative
policy on public debt restructuring in privatization sales is to be made effective.

95.      Bankruptcy of SOEs: After enactment of the new BankruptcyLaw by the Parliament
of Serbia in July 2004, the implementationof one of the most important reform regulations
started on February 1,2005. The Law envisages several bodies in charge of carrying out of the
bankruptcyprocedure: the bankruptcycouncil, the bankruptcyjudge, the trustee in
bankruptcy, the assembly and the board of creditors.With the help of technical assistance
provided by the Bank and other donors, significant progress has been made in recent months
to create the two crucial institutionalpillars of new insolvencyregime: (i) the Bankruptcy
SupervisoryAgency (BSA) to license and overseebankruptcy trustees; and (ii) the Bankruptcy
Unit within the PA to act as the bankruptcyadministratorof insolvent socially- and state-
owned enterprises.

96.      As noted above, effectivebankruptcyprocess is a prerequisite for successful
enterpriserestructuring, and for establishmentof hard budget constraint with regards to SOE
sector.Although it can prepare a plan for restructuring and privatization through bankruptcy,
the PA does not have the authorityto initiate the formal bankruptcy process. State creditors,
mainly the MOF or the Development Fund, are authorizedto petition the courts to initiate
bankruptcyproceedings under the new law. In the course of 2005 the Governmentwill ensure
that the state creditors request the court to initiate bankruptcyprocedures against a number of
large SOEswhich have been receiving subsidies and fail to show tangible progress in
restructuring.More generally, the state creditors are expected to file for bankruptcy against all
enterprisesthat have twice failed a market test, within 90 days of the second unsuccessful
auction or tender.

97.      Bank's Assessmenf/Recornmendation. Notwithstanding impressive progress to date,
the following issues remain to be addressedby the GOS, with support of PPFDPCIL program,
in the near (PPFDPC-1)to medium (PPFDPCIL-2) term:

        completing the tender and auctionprivatization program for SOEs currentlyin the PA
        portfolio by the end of 2006;
        acceleratingrestructuring and privatization of large problematic SOEs, with the
        objective to offer for sale all saleable assets on the restructuring list by the end of
        2006;
        using the new bankruptcy regime to resolve SOEs that cannot be sold, both for large
        subsidyrecipients from the restructuring list and for all other SOEs that have twice
        failed the market test.

98.      Measures to be Undertaken as Part of the Proposed PPFDPC-1. The following
measures are being undertaken. Starting December 1,2004:

        the Privatization Agency of the Republic of Serbiahas offered for sale no less than
        eighteen socially-owned enterprises and sold at least nine socially-owned enterprises
        through its tender program;
        the PA offered for sale through auctions no less than 180 socially-owned enterprises,
        and sold at least 40 percent of such socially-owned enterprises;

        the PA has offered for sale no less than eight socially-ownedenterprises, or significant
        parts thereof (i.e., representingno less than 50 percent of the total assets), from the list
        of enterprises undergoing restructuring, using, as applicable,tenders, auctions and
        asset sales procedures, and sold at least three socially-ownedenterprises set forth in
        the restructuring list; and
        Republic of Serbia owned or controlled creditors have requested the courts of the
        Republic of Serbia to initiate bankruptcy proceedings for at least six large state owned
        enterprises set forth in the restructuring list.

99.      Triggersfor PPFDPC/L-2.

        Starting on October 1,2005,the PA will: (i) offer for sale no less than 18 SOEs and
        sell at least 9 through its tender program; (ii) offer for sale through auctions no less
        than 450 socially-ownedenterprises, and sell at least 40% of them; (iii) offer for sale
        no less than 25 SOEs from the list of companies under restructuring, or significant
        parts thereof (i.e., representing no less than 50% of the total assets), using, as
        applicable, tenders, auctions and asset sales procedures, and sell at least 7 SOEs from
        the same list.
        Starting on October 1,2005, Republic of Serbia-owned or controlled creditors will
        request the courts to initiate bankruptcy proceedings for: (i) at least 8 large SOEs from
        the Restructuring List; and (ii) a number of additional SOEs that have unsuccessfully
        been offered for sale twice through auction or tender9.
        The Government of the Republic of Serbia will submit the Take-over of Companies
        Law and amendments to Securities Markets Law to the Parliament.


Policy Area 1.3: Concessions Frameworkfor Mining Sector

100.     Description. The underlying metallic mineral potential of Serbia is promising, as
demonstrated by past mineral production, the delineation of undeveloped geological resources
within known mining districts, and increasing interest expressed by foreign investors. In order
to realize sector potentia1;the Republic of Serbia has undertaken reforms to transition the state
from a role of owner operator of mineral assets to that of regulator and sector administrator.
As part of this transition, the government has to improve legal and regulatory framework
conducive to private sector investment.

101.     Challenges.Mining sector reforms should meet a broad objective of developing a set
of practical and implemental arrangements that will assist Serbia in strengthening its legal and
institutional framework for increased private investment in the exploitation of mineral ores.
To this end, the pending legislation should strengthen fiscal performance of the sector by
adhering to international standards regarding competitive taxation, foreign investment, and
customs issues unique to mining and establish framework for the negotiation, assessment, and
payment of royalties in a transparent manner. Success in the implementation of these reforms
will then be conditional upon sector governance, enforcement of contracts and collection of
royalties. To fulfill these goals the Government has to build capacity to improve



 The exact number of SOEs for this trigger will be determined by the end of 1'' quarter of 2006.

administrative processes that will attract private investment commensuratewith the resource
potential and increase revenue to the government.

102.      Government Actions. To address these issues the GOS has prepared amendmentsto
the Law on Mining and to the Law on GeologicalExplorationto improve clarity on several
matters including: (i) state ownership of mineral resources and authorizationto assign mineral
rights / licenses to private parties; (ii) role of the state as a regulator within the sector; (iii)
administrative frameworksfor mines cadastre,mines inspectorate,and other authorizations;
and (iv) compliance with mineral rights and laws includingroyalty, surface fee, and other
financial obligations. As the next step, the GOS has to prepare regulations that define
procedures for assessment of annual mineral production, surface and filing fees, royalties as
well as payment procedures, and resolution of disputes and conflicts.

103.     Bank's Assessment/Recommendation.The GOS has to identify deficiencies and/or
gaps relating to the Mining Law and Law on GeologicalExploration and carefully review the
royaltyrates and how they are negotiated and assessed in order to improve sector governance
and increase transparency

104.     Measures to be Undertaken as Part of PPFDPC-I

        The Government of the Republic of Serbiahas submittedto the Parliament of the
        Republic of Serbia amendmentsto the Law on Mining, satisfactoryto the Association,
        incorporating a new royalties framework.

105.      Triggersfor PPFDPC/L-2. Regulations that define procedures for assessment of
annual mineral production, surface and filing fees, royalties and payment procedures, and
resolution of disputes and conflicts are in place.


Policy Area 1.4: EPS Restructuring

106.     Description. There has been much progress in recent years on energy sector reform,
particularly as regards power tariff reform and development of an enabling framework to
support power industrycommercialization.

107.      Further reform in these two areas will be required in order that power industry
sustainability- defined as well functioning and providing affordable/ competitively priced
power -is achieved.Power industry sustainability is important from a macroeconomic
perspective - both as regards fiscal aspects and because performance of the power industry is
an important influence on GDP growth -and as a determinant of quality of life for the
population.

108.      Challenges.Power tariffs were increased from USD 0.9 cents / kwh in 2001 to
around 4 cents / kwh from July 2004. Increases were necessary in order that the power
industrywas financiallyviable and able to provide reliable supply to consumers. Tariff
increaseswere successful in reducing power outages from high levels in the winter of 2000-
2001 to current low levels which are in line with international standards.

109.    Going forward, it will be importantto ensure that power tariffs continue to provide
adequate revenues for cost recovery. The important categoriesof cost here are operating cost,
maintenance, investment, and debt service (to Paris Club creditors, local suppliers,and the
GOS). To this end, in order that increasinginvestment costs are covered,real power tariff
increases to this end are likely to be required in the medium term. Absent tariff increases,
either Government support would be required,or investmentswould be postponed and system
securityjeopardized.

110.    One means for mitigating the extent of required tariff increaseswould be through
commercialization of EPS (the national power company). Currentlythere is scope for EPS to
improveperformance significantly,both as regards cost reduction and enforcementof
payments discipline. EPS restructuringwould support commercializationthrough
strengtheningmanagement incentives to perform. In addition, EPS restructuring would
support Serbia's accession to the regional power market, which would in turn increase
commercialpressure on EPS.

111.    Evidence suggeststhat introduction of a strategicinvestor can result in improved
performance of the power sector, with the proviso that the supporting institutional
arrangementsare in place (for example, a regulator has been established). It is likelythat
introduction of a strategicinvestor in the Serbian context would support efforts to
commercializethe power sector, although this is likelyto be feasible in the medium rather
than the near term.

112.    GovernmentActions. As noted above, the GOS has undertaken a number of
measures to support power sector sustainability,both as regards tariffs and developmentof a
frameworkto support industry commercialization.Much remains, however, to be done.

113.    In particular, a tariff increase will be required in 2005 in order to provide for ongoing
financialviability of EPS. The GOS is very much aware of the need for a tariff increase, and
has established a working group comprisingrepresentatives of the Ministry of Energy and
Mining, the MOF, and the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs. The working group will
propose a tariff increase to be implemented from July 1,2005.

114.    On EPS restructuring, and as noted above, the GOS has agreed to establish a separate
power transmission company. The GOS recognizes that this is a first step, and that there are a
number of measures relating to restructuring that currentlyneed to be addressed,both to
supportparticipation in the regional energymarket, and to strengthen performance incentives
with a view to improvingpayments discipline and reducing costs. The GOS accepts that
private sectorparticipation in the power sector could be potentially beneficial in the medium
term.

115.    Bank's Assessment/Recommendation. The Bank team has worked with staff from
MEM and EPS to develop a financial model of the power industry upon which revenue
requirements and tariff increases can be estimated. In agreeing inputs to the model, there have
been extensive discussions on the EPS investment program, which focuses on coal mine
development,and the rehabilitation of power plants and networks.

116.     Based on the discussions and the financial modeling, the Bank's recommendation is
that a tariff increase of the order 10-12percent from July 1stwould allow EPS to cover
operating, maintenance and investment costs and Paris Club debt service. A 10-12percent
increase would provide incentives for EPS to improve performance, both as regards
strengthening payments discipline and reducing operating costs; targets for improvement are
implicit in the 10-12percent figure. An increase above 10-12percent would weaken
incentives and would not be appropriate. Real tariff increases should take place as the
regulatory framework is developed, as EPS becomes commercialized, and as investment
requirements increase.

117.     If EPS is required to service historic debt to suppliers and to the Government, then
the revenue requirement would be higher. In the event that the working group proposes a
higher tariff increase to finance debt service, the Bank has suggested that affordability impacts
should be offset through strengthening of the safetynet. The Bank team has suggested also
that the issue of debt service should be resolved as part of a more global financial
restructuring exercise involving state-owned companies and budget entities.

118.     On EPS restructuring, the Bank concurs with the GOS on the need to appoint an
advisor to support this process. The EAR is willing to fund such an assignment. The Bank and
the EAR have worked together to develop an agreed terms of reference for the assignment,
which will shortly be sent to the GOS and to EPS for comment. The terms of reference
envisage that the assignment will be overseen by a steering committee comprising
representatives of the GOS (MEM, MOF, and PA), EPS, EAR and the Bank.

119.     It would not be appropriate to move quickly with privatization at the current time,
given the need to build political support. In addition, the required restructuring of EPS will
take up to several years to implement. It is noteworthy that the time taken from the start of
restructuring to closing of privatization in neighboring countries -Bulgaria, FYR Macedonia,
Romania -has been in excess of five years. It is noticeable also that where privatization
happened more quickly in the ECA region, this subsequently failed, with Georgia and
Kazakhstan notable examples. In the context of the regional energy market, Serbia is obliged
to restructure but not to privatize EPS.

120.     Measures to be Undertaken as Part of PPFDPC-1. The GOS adopted a power tariff
increase in mid-2005 that is acceptable to the Bank. In conjunction with the tariff increase, the
GOS will propose how debt service shall be treated. Secondly, the Government of the
Republic of Serbia will launch an international tender to engage a financial advisor for
Elektroprivreda Srbije, in accordance with terms of references and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.

121.     Triggersfor PPFDPC/L-2.

        Financial Adviser to deliver to GOS recommendations on restructuring of EPS.
        Regulatory framework is in place providing for transparent rules for setting cost
        recovery tariffs.

Policy Area 1.5: Railway Sector

122.     Description. The railway sector component of PPFDPC-1 will focus on facilitating
the institutional changes necessary to reform the sector, encompassing labor retrenchment,
network rationalization and the divestiture of non-core activities. This component will build
on the recent passage of the railway law, and a production of a new 5 year restructuring plan
for ZS, to achieve an agreed reduction in the number of core ZS staff, the attainment of the
conversion of an agreed proportion of the network to 'manipulation status as a step on the
path to closure, and the commencement of the divestiture of non-core activities.

123.     Challenges.ZTP used to produce a one year business plan every year, based on a five
year strategic plan, the most recent of which was prepared with technical assistance from the
EBRD. The 2004-2008 version of the latter was not accepted by the GOS, because it
envisaged continuing high levels of government subsidy. ZTP produced a 2005 Annual
Business Plan, which has been approved by the GOS, and a 2005-2008 Restructuring Plan,
which detail the specific plans to reduce labor, privatize non-core activities, and retrench
services and lines for the years 200512006,

124.     As to railway line closures, ZS has committed to withdraw services and convert 7.5
percent of the network to manipulation status immediately, and convert a further 6.3 percent
of the network by the end of 2005 if service specific subsidy is not achieved. The Board of
Management of ZS met on May 22,2005 to determine further possible cuts in the network.
The primary constraints to the swift execution of service withdrawal and line closure are both
process and local political sensitivities.

125.     As it regards the divesture of non-core activities, the management of ZS has
commenced the process of divesting all non-core activities, through the establishment of 14
wholly-owned subsidiary companies, offering services as diverse as travel agency, housing,
import-export services to engineering consultancy. This process needs to continue by offering
the separated businesses for sale to private investors in an open and transparent process
beginning in late 2005.

126.     GovernmentActions. The railway is the largest public utility which imposes a high
fiscal cost on the budget and its early restructuring is critical. As of January 1,2005ZTP had
26,212 employees in the core railway and 5,000 in daughter companies (total of 31,212
employees). ZS plans to reduce total railway labor by about 3,800 in 2005, reducing core ZS
staff by 1,900, for a 7.4 percent reduction in core staff. ZS plans to reduce total labor by an
additional 3,496 in 2006. ZS have stated the objective of reducing overall core staff to 18,000
by the end of 2007.

127.     The core of the proposed reform in the railway sector surrounds the new Railway Law
and associated decree on the reorganization of ZTP as was, the former of which became
effective on March 1,2005.A new railway entity, Zeleznice Srbije, has recently been
established, to which the operating assets of ZTP have been transferred. This law provides for
an infrastructure manager to maintain and operate the railway infrastructure and for multiple
operators with equal access to provide train service over the infrastructure. Initially, ZS will
be both infrastructure manager and operator, although the law allows for other manager and

operators.10A Railway Directorate is being formed to license infrastructure managers and
train operators. The law permits operators to apply to government for subsidy of loss-making
services and to cease providing loss-making services that are not compensated. It provides for
the infrastructure operator to set infkastructure tariffs in accordance with standards articulated
by the Railway Directorate.

128.      Bank's AssessmentLRecommendation. Notwithstanding progress to date through
passage of the new Railway Law and adoption of the well-developed 2005 Business Plan, the
following issues remain to be addressed by the GOS, with support of PPFDPCIL program, in
the near to medium term:

             Retrenchment of core labor from ZS and its subsidiaries;
             Withdrawal of uneconomic passenger services and the closure of uneconomic
             lines; and
             Divestiture of non-core activities.

129.      Measures to be Undertaken as Part of PPFDPC-1. The following represent the
specific core and non-core conditions that were discussed and agreed with the Government
and ZS as PPFDPC-1 tranche release conditions:

             Zeleznice Srbije has reduced ZS staff engaged in core ZS activities by 1,900, or 7.2
             percent of total ZS core staff of 26,212 employed as of January 1,2005,and ZS
             and GOS have adopted the 2005 Business Plan.
             ZS to begin the withdrawal of all passenger services from 7.5 percent of the
             network (260km), convert them to manipulation lines in 2005 and finalize plans
             for similar activities through 2009 in the 2005-2009 Strategic Plan.
             Begin implementation of the approved 2005 Business Plan, satisfactory to the
             Bank, pending receipt and acceptance by the MOF and MCI of the new 2005-2009
             Strategic Plan.

130.      Triggersfor PPFDPC/L-2. The following represent the prospective triggers for
PPFDPCIL-2 that were discussed and agreed with the Government and ZS:

             Core ZS staff have been reduced by a further 1,000 employees, or 3.8% of total ZS
             core staff as of January 1,2005.
             ZS has withdrawn passenger services from a further 6.3percent (218km) of the
             network by about mid-2006, unless service specific Public Service Contracts
             (PSC) are agreed.
             ZS has transferred 3 additional non-core activities to Privatization Agency.



PILLAR I1 Building a more efficient and stable financial sector
               -

131.      Beginning in 2001 the authorities set out to deal with the critical condition of the
Serbian banks. Given the inability of the budget to re-capitalize the most seriously distressed
banks, and the likely negative franchise value of most such banks, some 25 insolvent banks

--



loZS is to be divided into infrastructure and operating companies, held within the same holding company.

                                                        32

(representingnearly two-thirds of the assets of the banking system) were closed between 2001
and 2003. The D M was given extended authorityby the Bankruptcy Court to administer
banks in bankruptcy.

132.       Both the banking and insurance sectors have witnessed substantial consolidation in
the past few years, as the number of banks in Serbia has been reduced from 83 (2001) to 41
(end-March 2005) and more recently the number of insurers has been reduced from 41 to 23.
In parallel, the authorities initiated a seriesof steps to modernize the regulatory framework for
banks and more recently, the insurance sector. As well, significant early progress has been
achieved in aligning banking and insurance sector regulations with best practice, althoughthe
full effect of these changes -especiallyas it regards bank and insurance supervision-will not
be seen until passage of the respective law amendments and the NBS' implementation of the
second phase of the SupervisoryDevelopmentPlan.

133.       Challenges in Serbia's banking sector however are not confinedto the state-owned
banks. The spotlight given by the authorities and the donor communityto resolution of state-
owned banks should in no way distract attention from the potential problems posed by the
rapid credit expansion of domesticprivate and foreign-ownedbanks." More specifically,the
2004 FSN analysis demonstratedthat none of the local banks driving the recent growth score
unambiguously well on a mix of effectiveness,regulatory or loan-qualityindicators. This
gives rise to the major concern that some of the larger local private banks (of which a number
are minority-ownedby the government)are storing up future problems by lending on
unsustainable terms that may result in the future deterioration of asset quality. A major credit
risk is also foreseen by the foreign exchange clause on virtually all CSD-denominatedloans,
which could lead to a sharp deteriorationin banks7asset quality in the event of a marked
depreciation of the exchangerate.


Policy Area 2.1: Resolution of state-owned banks (SOB) and divestment offinancial assets
(non-performing loans and equities)

134.       Description. In the second semester of 2004, the government as the (then) majority
and minority shareholder of 16banks, began the process of divesting its holdings in the sector
through the DM. The process of divestiture of the SOB holdings is now well underway,
suitablyresourced and managed. In January 2005 the first state-ownedbank was successfully
sold to a Greek banking group and two other banks have since been sold to separate foreign
bidders. It is envisaged that at least one more majority held state-ownedbanks may be sold in
2005 and two others (including the largest) offered for sale late in 2005. Equally, it is
noteworthy that the largest domestic private bank was sold in February 2005 to an Italian
banking group. However, importantly,as it regards the further divestment of banks and
financial assets, there are no concreteplans in place beyond early 2006. Thus, if successful
with the currentlyenvisaged sale of additional majority-owned banks, at mid-2006 the
governmentwould still retain (majority and minority) ownership stakes in at least 8 banks.



"Although   it is often presumed that the "private" banks are exempt from the stresses and distortions suffered by the state
banks, the reality is unlikely to be quite so straightforward. As many private banks have been closely affiliated with specific
interest groups, they lack the advantages of clean balance-sheets and the more prudential culture brought by the foreign
banks.

135.     Additionally,the DIA, as agent for the Bankruptcy Court, holds claims totaling
almost USD $10 billion equivalent from failed, sold and merged banks. However, as more
than 95 percent of the total claims represent Paris-LondonClub (PLC) loans due from
socially- or state-ownedenterprises,off-balancesheet items or other state related debt, only a
small portion of assets (both loans and equity stakes) are from private entities and thus
available for sale. As the DM has no delegated authorityfrom the Court to resolve any claim
for less than the outstandingbalance, its efforts to recover value from the loans and other
enterprise equityholdings have been considerablydelayed.

136.     Challenge.In the near-term, to ensure that the decision making and performance at
each of the government's remaining 15(majorityand minority) bank holdings are subject to
regular scrutinyby the DIA as agent for the MOF as shareholder.Longer term, to divest or
merge its remainingbank equity stakes, so the government is substantially out of the business
of banking by FYE07. And lastly, to reduce the DIA's financial asset holdings through
periodic, transparent asset auctions.

137.     Government Actions. After a rather protracted start, the GOS, acting through the
DIA, has begun to consolidate and divest its bank holdings. As well, utilizing a World Bank
grant facilityand coordinatedbi-lateral assistance from three countries, the DIA has
substantiallyexpanded its capacity to monitor banks' performance and prepare banks for sale.
The agency and its financialadvisors have developed a Sale and Purchase Agreement (SPA)
contract complying with Serbian law to use as a template for subsequent bank sales. The
authorities are committed to extend their sale program to other majority-owned bank holdings
and thereafter, off-loadtheir minority-ownedbank holdings.

138.     Bank's Assessrnent/Recomrnendation. Progress in the past year in organizing the
first tenders for the divestment of banks has been excellent. Equally, the DIA has taken
numerous stepsto further strengthen its oversight and control of the remaining state-owned
banks and organize its first sale of financial assets.Notwithstanding this progress to date and
the envisagedmajority-ownedbank offerings in late 2005 and early 2006, it is important the
governmentmitigate its operational risks whilst developing and executing a strategy for the
divestment of its remainingbank equity holdings and other financial assets.

139.     Measures to be Undertaken as Part of PPFDPC-1. The bank and financial asset
divestment strategy supported under PPFDPC-1 includes the following key elements:

        The Agency for Deposit Insurance (DIA) of the Republic of Serbia has offered for
        sale, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a majority (i.e.,more than
        50 percent) of Vojvodjanska banka shares.
        DIA has appointedFinancial Adviser for Credy Banka and has agreed to recommend
        resolution strategyfor Privredna Banka Pancevo to the DIA Management Board.
        Binding bids for NPL sale received and recommended to the Commercial Court of
        Belgrade for approval.

140.      In the event that the majority-ownedbanks now held1*are taken up by the market in
the coming year, it is expected that the GOS will reduce its holding of majority-owned banks
in the sector to below 11percent of total banking system assets by end-200513.As to the sale
of NPL or private enterprise equity holdings, the DIA is committed to do so with the approval
of the Bankruptcy Court. The first sale of assets is expected to be closed in the third quarter of
2005, and subsequent sales announced upon Court approval.

141.      Triggersfor PPFDPC/L-2. The key expected financial sector triggers are the
consummation of the sale or resolution of the largest state-owned bank to a strategicbuyer and
the launch of tenders for at least two of the remaining stakes in minority state-ownedbanks.
However, to the extent that the government does not receive acceptable bids for majority-
owned banks held, it is prepared to resolve (by merger or closure) its remaining stakes in
banks. Likewise, in the event of Court approval, the DIA should launch the sale of a second
package of financial assets.


Policy Area 2.2: Strengthening insurance sector regulation and resolution regime

142.      Description. In recognition of the fact that the Serbian insurance regulatory and
supervisory apparatus was transitioned to the NBS in mid-2004 through passage of a new law,
the insurance sector is being re-established going forward within a more healthy governance
environment. The NBS as the new insurance supervisor, with its substantial experience in the
banking sector, has already taken vigorous actions to address the more egregious issues facing
the industry through the closure of eighteen insurers.

143.      Challenges. While it has been necessary for the NBS to assume new responsibilities
towards the insurance sector, it has also highlighted certain weaknesses - a lack of experience,
in particular -within the supervisory ranks, and deficiencies in the legal structures upon
which the supervisor depends. There are three urgent issues that need to be addressed in the
insurance sector, the first two of which emerged from the recent closure of a substantial
number of insurers. These are:

             The definition, management and hnding of claims incurred by the closed insurers,
             and third party liability (TPL) claims in particular;
             The process of resolution of the closed insurers; and
             The disposition and restructuring of the two state-owned insurance companies.

144.      Supervisory strengthening is a longer-term issue and will be addressed through the
envisaged PPFDPCIL-2, as particular emphasis is needed to develop off-site actuarial analysis
skills, on-site inspections and report preparation skills.

145.      At present TPL insurance continues to be regulated under the relevant provisions of
the old Insurance Law. TPL claims against failed insurers are met from a guarantee fund set
up under this law. These claims are payable, with accrued interest, once bankruptcy


12 With the exception of new banks likely to be transferred to the DIA and Cacanska bank, wherein EBRD is
under discussion with government about its taking an equity stake.
l 3Minority holdings in banks are necessarily more difficult to place, though GOS is committed to do so in the
medium term.

proceedings have finalized, which takes many years. Under the new insurance law, claimants
continue to have claims against an insurer until it is deemed to have ceased trading (compared
to ceasing trading once insurer's license was withdrawn), making the guarantee fund
responsible for claims arising after an insurer has had its license withdrawn. In addition it
creates a moral hazard in that vehicle owners may not feel obliged to take out a new TPL
contract -the normal requirement in most markets.

146.      It is estimated that approximately 25 percent of all drivers in Serbia now have
questionable TPL insurance coverage following the closure of 8 companies in November 2004
and another 7 in January 2005 (3 additional companies gave up their licenses). Estimates of
the resulting cost to the guarantee facility are as high as CSD 3 billion, producing total
liabilities of approximately US$100 million. This represents approximately 80 percent of
current TPL declared annual premium income in Serbia, and will need to be funded over
several years if the figure proves near correct.

147.      Government Actions. The key short term issues required of the GOS involve setting
the scene for the reforms that will underpin the tranche release. One of these, the
commencement of technical assistance to develop a strategy and formulate law to put TPL
onto a sound long-term footing, has commenced. The others relate to sectoral restructuring
and include the commencement of a detailed on-site inspection of DDOR Novi Sad, one of
the two large state-owned insurers, production of audited accounts for the two state-owned
insurers using current accounting standards, and the submission of law amendments to the
Parliament to enable the DIA to commence liquidation for the 18recently closed insurers.

148.     Bank's Assessment/Recommendation. The Bank's main recommendations concern
the ongoing TPL reform and sectoral restructuring efforts. The most difficult issue affecting
TPL will be the development of a funding mechanism to meet guarantee fund obligations. In
addition, there is a need to ensure that drivers take out new coverage when an insurer loses its
license, which is a common requirement in other countries, including those in the region.
Some of the key restructuring and resolution concerns that will need to be addressed going
forward in the law amendments and supporting regulations include: (i) the responsibilities of
the various parties involved (NBS, administrators, courts etc) should be clearly laid out; (ii)
the minimum qualifications and appointment processes for administrators and liquidators
should be specified; (iii) the powers of the supervisor to guide the processes in the interests of
policyholders should be clearly laid out; (iv) severe penalties for dealing in assets after NBS
serves a ceasing of business order should be introduced; and (v) there should be scope to
unwind related party or suspected related party transactions made within a certain period
before a ceasing business order is introduced.

149.     Measures to be Undertaken as Part of PPFDPC-I. The requirements for tranche
release follow on from the preliminary actions listed above and include passage of enabling
laws amendments to the insurance law, the appointment of advisors to restructurel privatize
DDOR Novi Sad, the beginning of the diagnostic audit process for Dunav Osiguranje and the
beginning of the implementation of the recommendations arising from the TPL technical
assistance. In particular, the insurance sector reforms to be addressed under this pillar of the
PPFDPC-1 will include:

        Specific Administration and Wind Up Procedures are in place through amendments to
        the insurance law and are in accord with new Bankruptcy Law and consistent with
        relevant EU Directives and international assessment standards Core Principals;
        New TPL Law and guarantee arrangements are submitted to Parliament which will
        offer coverage on a sustainable basis;
        Financial Advisor has been appointed for DDOR privatization; and
        Launch tender for Dunav diagnostic audit.

150.     Triggersfor PPFDPC/L-2. The triggers for PPFDPCIL-2 involve the substantial
realization of the TPL and sectoral restructuring efforts described above. These include the
commencement of the DDOR privatization and a time-bound plan prepared for Dunav's
restructuring and the submission of liquidators' reports for the 18 closed insurers.


Policy Area 2.3: Second phase of the Supervisory Development Plan (SDP)

151.     Description. Banking sector regulation and supervision has been one of the key areas
targeted since the inception of the Serbian reform program. Initial steps by the NBS to close
the four largest banks in 2001 started a process of banking sector reform and restructuring. At
the heart of this reform was the acknowledged need to strengthen bank supervision processes,
which had lost considerable ground in the prior decade. At the initiative of the NBS and as a
part of the previous World Bank PFSAC-1 and PFSAC-2 programs, objectives for regulatory
and supervisory reform were established, in part, through the development of a Supervisory
Development Plan (SDP). Currently a new, revised SDP is being finalized to address
continuing needs and introduce further, risk based tools and processes.

152.     As a matter of serious concern, the NBS bank examination process repeatedly
identifies the need to make additional - often significant - loan loss provisions. This raises the
concern that some banks may not have accurate internal classification and loan provisioning
systems, and therefore, that capital and overall bank condition may not be accurately conveyed
through correct and truthful financial reporting to the public or regulator. Consistent, effective
follow up of issues and enforcement of supervisory actions must be improved.

153.     Challenges.Risk based supervision is, in essence, drawing conclusions about a
bank's level, nature, and management of risks. As a corollary, the NBS should institute
processes for the ongoing supervision of such risks, proactively taking steps with the board
and management before a bank's viability is threatened. These key processes (and the
underlying changes needed to institutional risk based supervision) have onlyjust begun to be
adopted by the NBS. Thus, while much remains to be accomplished to achieve a sustained
degree of implementation, numerous steps have been taken to date, including:

        Key staffing changes, including new senior and executive supervisory management;
        Formation of a "Bank Supervision Committee" (BSC) to help support decision
        making;
        Adoption of a standardized report of examination format;
        Improved communications within the supervision department;
        Introduction of a CAMEL risk rating process; and

        Preparation of individual bank supervisory strategies which form the framework to
        prompt key risk conclusions and to link them with supervisory responses and plans.

154.     The rapidly growing large private banks and two large and systemically important
state-controlled banks should be priority candidates for early on-site examinations to
determine whether their high loan growth rates (most of which are foreign exchange linked)
are compromising asset quality or putting at risk longer-tern capital adequacy. To this end,
enforcement capacity of the NBS Supervision Department is slated to be further improved
through implementation of the second phase of the SDP. Going forward, the NBS supervisors
need to consistently enforce their prudential regulations without exceptions and take prompt
corrective or remedial actions as necessary. The Base1 Core Principles assessment, undertaken
as part of the recent FSAP confirmed that there is substantial scope to improve regulations and
moreover, supervisory practices.

155.     In this regard, the Serbian authorities should be prepared to deal promptly with
potential bank failures that may result from the convergence of market, financial and
regulatory pressures, such a result of, through the increased minimum capital requirement,
more rigorous enforcement of the existing prudential regime, increased competition resulting
from the entry of new foreign banks, the removal of government and NBS deposits from
commercial banks, etc. In addition to this, it is possible that some (private or state-owned)
banks offered up for sale may not attract a suitable buyer, whilst others may be found capital
deficient or may experience liquidity constraints. The NBS should put in place a proper early
warning system and in collaboration with the GOS, amend the bank exit / resolution
mechanism to minimize the fiscal cost, protect depositors' insured accounts, asset values and
overall, to minimize possible systemic risks. The orderly consolidation of the banking system
should be seen as a key objective of the envisaged changes to the regulatory and supervisory
regime.

156.     Government Actions. As a result of the relatively uneven implementation of
supervisory processes, the NBS agreed with the need for a time-bound, prioritized "second
phase" SDP. This follow on SDP is intended, in part, to identify steps to accomplish key tasks
to implement risk based supervision and to elevate those supervisory areas still requiring
management attention. These needed steps fall into 6 key categories:

        Legal tools (revision of the Law on Banks and other affected regulation);
        Risk analysis and conclusions -in credit, foreign exchange, and liquidity areas;
        Corrective action program to address banks' deficiencies in operations;
        External audit: adequacy and use as a supportive supervisory input;
        Accurate and truthful disclosure and transparency; and
        Enhanced bank governance.

157.     Overarching this initiative, the NBS in collaboration with the MOF is undertaking a
full review of the Law on Banks and Banking. Upon seeking comment from the industry,
public, the World Bank and IMF, it is envisaged amendments to the law will be introduced to
Parliament in late 2005. The thorough review and introduction of revisions to the Law on
Banks and Banking is in line with the recommendations of the recent FSAP mission and is
IMF structural performance criteria for mid-November 2005. Consistent with NBS intentions,
there is a clear need to focus, inter alia, on: (i) assigning clear board and management

responsibility and accountability for the safe and sound operation of their banks; (ii) ensuring
that legal parameters and tools are firmly in place to enable supervisory remedial (including
insolvency) decisions to be taken on a methodical basis; (iii) promptly exercising remedial
measures in the event inaccurate financial reporting is disclosed to the public or the
supervisory authorities.

158.     Bank's Assessment/Recommendation. As outlined above, a number of key steps
remain to be put in place, as the risk based supervisory framework and responsibilities therein
have not been thoroughly integrated into day-to-day bank supervisory activities to enable such
results. The NBS must concretely demonstrate its ability to put in place the agreed measures
in the second SDP.

159.     Finally, the supervisor should continue its recent efforts in evaluating the results of
and differences between the year-end audited financial statements and bank examinations to
determine divergence in reporting, particularly in the area of required loan loss provisions and
accuracy of financial reporting. Action plans addressing, inter alia, issues of inaccurate
financial reporting and capital inadequacy, bank internal control systems, and board and
management responsibility for such, should be prepared, reviewed by the subject bank(s), and
approved and signed by both parties.

160.     Measures to be Undertaken as Part of PPFDPC-1. The NBS would formally adopt a
comprehensive "second phase" SDP which reinforces the importance of key supervisory
activities requiring NBS management attention. The updated SDP will also elevate
expectations for a sound, increasingly risk based supervisory approach demonstrated by: (i)
revised draft of a comprehensive SOP, satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) risk matrices and
supervisory strategies for banks examinations completed as of September 30, 2005; (iii) a
time-bound corrective action plan to address Base1Core Principles weaknesses identified; (iv)
for those banks whose deadline for implementation of corrective action measures has expired
as of September 20,2005, the NBS is to verify that provisions have been taken by the deadline
specified in the corrective action plan and are reflected on subject banks' financial and
regulatory reports; (v) NBS has issued a new regulation, effective January 1,2006,that
requires the examined banks to book NBS directed provisions no later than the end of the
quarter of the NBS' issuance of the corrective measures and make necessary changes in
regulatory reports.

161.     Triggersfor PPFDPC/L-2. The following represents the prospective triggers for
PPFDPCIL-2 that was discussed and agreed with the Government and the NBS:

        By-laws needed to implement the new Banking Law are in place, including by-law(s)
        addressing sound risk management processes and accurate and timely reporting of
        risks.

Policy Area 2.4: Access to Finance

162.     Description. Improving access to finance has been an important component of prior
structural adjustment operations, which resulted in significant increases of consumer (and to a

lesser degree, corporate) lending.14Further, the legal framework for creating and enforcing
security agreementshas been markedly improved.As well, the GOS has begun work on the
establishment or development of the key institutions for the implementationof the Pledge
Registry and Real Estate Cadastre. In addition, a new Credit Bureau is operating,
demonstrating the willingness of major lenders to cooperate amongstthemselves in making
borrower data available.However, the last piece in the framework for secured lending, the
Mortgage Law, is not in place.

163.       In Serbiamortgages on buildings are the most frequentlyrequested type of collateral
and account for approximately45 percent of all bank collateral in year 2003.15Currently,the
institution of mortgages is stipulated by only a few provisions of the Law on the Principles of
Property Relations. Because of weaknesses in the legal framework and lack of experience
with the executionprocedures,banks often require collateral and other forms of security in
addition to a mortgage to limit their credit risk (multiple guarantors,non-real estate collateral,
direct salary deductionfor loan payments, bills of exchange, etc.). In addition, financingnew
construction is limited because it is not possible to mortgage a building under construction,
thereby preventing developmentof an efficient financingmechanism and sharply limiting the
potential of the constructionindustry

164.       Challenge.The current limited access to medium- and longer- term finance and the
high cost of all financingpresent a major challenge for the development of the financial and
enterprise sector in Serbia.This includes further improvements of the arrangements for
valuing collateral and enforcing liens, as it especially effects residential and commercial
mortgage loans. These deficienciespreclude most borrowers' ability to receive funds, as the
costs of such credits and related services are quite high. Although interest margin and real
interest rates are decreasing,Serbia still has higher interestrates compared to other
neighboring countries.

165.       There is an urgent need to reform the mortgage-based lending system owing to:

     a    the lack of adequate legal and regulatory framework;
     a    the absence of the efficient supporting administration, i.e.real estate registration16;and
          the absence of secondarymarket mechanisms.

166.       Even though a few foreign-ownedbanks have begun providing mortgage lending for
residential flats, most domestic banks lack the ability to attract, and thus, offer long-term
funding, which precludes their entry into mortgage lending. The GOS recently established
National Mortgage Insurance Corporation of Serbia (NMICS) which assumes the major part



l4  PFSAC I and I1 as well as the recent SAC I1 approved by the Board in December 2004.
l 5 World Bank "Serbia Investment Climate Assessment" (December, 2004)

l6  A large portion of real estate in Serbia is not properly registered and even when it is registered, it is not unusual
for there to be discrepanciesbetween the facts and the data contained in the public register. The absence of
clarity on these issues makes it riskier and more costly for lenders to assume exposure in housing or commercial
real estate. The objective of the World Bank the Real Estate Cadastre and Registration Project is to increase
confidence and lower transaction costs by building a more efficient property registration and cadastre system.
However, in additionto providing technical mapping, the project focuses on the registration of property rights by
establishing the real estate cadastre throughout the whole country and improving service delivery for secondary
real estate transactions(sales, mortgages).

of the credit risk in mortgage lending. The NMICS provides mortgage guarantee insurance,
and once klly operational, could act as a secondary market maker. While the default risk can
be shared with the banks through mortgage insurance, there is a broad concern as to the
creation of a large contingent liability for the government, having in mind the weaknesses in
the banking, legal and administrative area. Nevertheless, this new scheme cannot substitute
for proper contracting and registration of mortgage interests.

167.      Government Actions. In an effort to address these recognized deficiencies, the GOS
is currently preparing a drafi Mortgage Law which regulates contracting and registration of
mortgage, as well as the settlement of a mortgage creditor. The major aim of the law is to
improve the efficiency of mortgage creation and enforcement, which is a well-known problem
in Serbia, and which inhibits development of the secondary mortgage markets and mortgage
securities. The future development of the secondary mortgage market in Serbia will depend on
the existence of the sufficient legal, tax and regulatory framework and capital market
preparedness.

168.     Bank's AssessmentLRecommendation. Notwithstanding impressive progress to date,
reform of the mortgage-based system of lending will assist Serbia in strengthening its legal
and institutional framework for improved access to finance. The draft law also needs to
address the issue of the registration of mortgages that are not included as yet in the real estate
cadastre.

169.      Measures to be Undertaken as Part of PPFDPC-1. Specific task under this pillar of
the PPFDPC-1 will be the submission to Parliament of the draft Mortgage Law, satisfactory to
the Bank.

170.      Triggersfor PPFDPC/L-2.

         By-laws or regulations, if any, needed to support implementation of Law on Mortgage
         adopted.



                         VI.     OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION

POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTS

171.      Although Serbia's recent poverty reduction experience is encouraging, the
Government's recent PRSP demonstrated that deep pockets of poverty and social
exclusion continue to be important policy challenges. The ambitious reform program
launched in 2001 has led to higher living standards and reduced poverty over the last few
years. Evidence suggests that the economic growth in Serbia has not resulted in change in
poverty levels between 2002 and 2003. Access to services, especially for the poor, has not
improved. As a result, further reforms will be required to ensure that growth is sustained and
that it reaches the poorest.

172.      In the near to medium term, the reforms supported by PPFDPC-1 are expected
to increase unemployment. For example, the redundancies in the copper mining and
processing complex, RTB Bor, in Eastern Serbia, which currently employs 9,000workers,

could reach 6,000 persons over 3 to 5 years. Yet, the alternative scenario - without
restructuring - will result in an unsustainable fiscal burden and eventual collapse (bankruptcy
or liquidation) of the enterprises,which would have much higher negative social costs.
Although PPFDPC-1 objectives are not designed to have geographicallyconcentrated effects,
one-company towns (such as RTB Bor) would be most affected.

173.     In order to mitigate the welfare and employment impact of the ongoing and
expected SOE reforms, the GOS instituted a Social Program in 2002. The SP introduced
generous lump sum severancepayment as an alternative to the severance package provided for
by the Labor Code. The SP, although generous in terms of payout, suffers from shortcomings,
the most important of which are: (a) financial sustainability, (b) choice and application of
quasi-financial and non-financial assistance instruments, and (c) the enforceability of the
linkage to restructuring. Based on experiences from other transition economies, the team will
seek to identify additional policy issues (e.g., in the areas of pensions and health insurance),
that could be addressed in the course of programmatic DPCIL program to mitigate the effects
of labor redeployment associated with restructuring.

174.     The program will seek to provide assistance to the GOS in revising its Social
Program and the manner in which Transition Fund resources are applied. A poverty and
social impact analysis - operationally attached to the proposed Bor Regional Development
Project -will shed light on worker preferences, while results from a study produced within the
framework of the Employment Promotion Project will evaluate the effectiveness and
efficiency of the passive and active labor market instruments applied thus far. Policy and
procedural advice provided to the GOS will be based partially on these studies as well as on
projections concerning the expected fiscal implications of future layoffs.

175.     In the longer term, the PPFDPC-1 will improve the capacity of the Government
to reduce poverty through several channels. First, implementation of measures aimed at
strengthening fiscal discipline-through    enhancing hard budget constraints and reducing
subsidies-will   not only improve resource allocation and the country's growth prospects, but
also reduce the risk of macroeconomic shocks, which can adversely affect the living standards
of the poor. Second, reform measures directed at improving the business climate will create
the basis for investments needed for medium-term growth and employment creation, and thus
for more sustained poverty reduction. Third, policy efforts aimed at building a more efficient
and stable financial sector will underpin economic growth and increase the resilience of the
Serbian economy to potential adverse shocks-both        of which are prerequisites for increasing
employment and reducing poverty.

IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION

176.     The MOF will be responsible for overall implementation of the proposed operation
and for reporting process and coordinating actions among other concerned ministries and
agencies. The Bank will monitor actions and review progress of the implementation of the
proposed operation, as well as the subsequent actions of the GOS program by using the short
term and overall program outcomes outlined in Annex 3 of the Policy Matrix.

177.     At the same time, the overall status of the GOS program will be monitored during
supervision to determine whether the specific conditions of the proposed operation have

changed. In addition, supervisionmissions will not only allow the Bank to continue the policy
dialogue with the institutionsinvolved in the implementationof the program of reform, but
will also ensure synergies with other donors to avoid conflicting advice to the Government in
the policy and technical areas involved in the reforms.

FIDUCIARY ASPECTS

178.     Public financial management (PFM) system. The Bank has up-to-date knowledge
of the PFM system of the Republic of Serbia.A CountryFinancial Accountability Assessment
(CFAA), a CountryProcurement Assessment Report (CPAR) and a Public Expenditure and
Institutional Review (PEIR) were completed in 2002 and 2003 respectively. The initial
diagnostic was updated in June 2005 with a Public ExpenditureNote and a Fiduciary
Assessment Update (FAU) for public financialmanagement and procurement.

179.     The 2005 FAU found that since 2002, progress has been made in a number of areas,
including on the legislative front with the adoption of a comprehensiveBudget System Law
(BSL) and an improved Public Procurement Law (PPL) in 2002, and on the institutional front
with the creation of new administrative entities for public resource management. A Public
Procurement Office (PPO) was established and issued secondaryprocurement legislation as
well as standardprocedures. A Commission for the Protection of Tenderers' Rights (CTR)
was also created. Another institution, the Administration for the Prevention of Money
Launderinghas proven effective in investigating and initiatingprosecution of high profile
money launderingcases. Last but not least, entities for budget analysis, treasury management
(cash, debt and accountingpolicies), financial control and internal audit have been created and
have started functioningin the MOF, in line with the 2002 CFAA recommendations.

180.     However, significantweaknesses remain. By and large, implementation of the BSL
and the PPL remains a challenge.Budget institutions are not yet able to ensure
comprehensive,transparent and reliable information and processes for budget execution.
Perhaps most significantis the absence of a sound internal control framework despite progress
in expenditure engagement (commitment) and payment control. Also, capacity constraints
remain paramount in these units as well as in line ministries (direct budget beneficiaries). The
2005 budget preparationprocess (and particularly the Budget Memorandum) does not match
transparency achieved in previous years.

181.     In addition,whereas many recommendations of the 2002 CFAA have been
implemented, some'ofthe most hndamental ones have incurred significant delays. This is the
case in particular for financialreporting and external oversight,both basic foundations of
fiscal transparencyand accountability. Specifically, the law for the creation of a Supreme
Audit Institutionsis likely to be adopted by Parliament in the Fall of 2005. Bank input has
been provided to the draft law under the responsibility of Finance committee of the National
Assembly. Similarly,public accounts for 2002,2003 and 2004 have not been audited. The
National Assembly is only now in the process of approvingthe nomination of a private audit
firm, as required by the BSL.

182.     The FAU also assessed that corrective actions taken by the National Bank of Serbia to
safeguard funds in the foreign exchange account were deemed adequate. On this basis, the

continued imposition of additional fiduciary safeguards on the NBS in the use of ring-fenced
accounts appears unwarranted.

183.     As a result of the above, fiduciary risk associated with the Serbian PFM system and
measured by selected PFM performance indicators remains high. Mitigating fiduciary risks
will require strong and sustained commitment towards transparency and accountability in
budget management. As outlined in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP), the Government
is committed to address weaknesses in the PFM environment through a broad set of sweeping
reforms to be supported by the Bank through the proposed stream of public sector DPCILs,
beginning with PPSDPL-1.

184.     Irreversible improvements in the fiduciary environment will be largely the outcome of
subsequent operations and particularly PPSDPL-1. In the meantime, fiduciary arrangements
for PPFDPC-1 will be strengthened as to protect proceeds from the loan, as described in the
paragraphs below.

DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING

185.     Borrower and Credit Amount. The Borrower is Serbia and Montenegro,
represented by the Ministry for International Economic Relations. The proceeds of the credit
will be made available by SaM to the Republic of Serbia following the enactment by SaM of
Laws on Ratification and on Borrowing. This operation is a single-tranche credit of US$55
million equivalent. The credit proceeds would be made available to the Borrower upon the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement between the Bank and SaM.

186.     Disbursement. The high risk fiduciary environment justifies tracking the use of the
proceeds from the credit. As foreign exchange expenditure is easier traceable than local
currency expenditure, the Bank will require, as presented in subsequent paragraphs, that the
proceeds of the credit be used only for eligible foreign currency expenditures.

187.     Upon approval of the credit and notification by the Bank of the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement between the Bank and SaM, the Borrower will submit a
withdrawal application to the International Development Association (IDA). The IDA will
deposit the proceeds of the credit into a foreign exchange account designated by the Borrower
and acceptable to the Bank, such account to be held at the NBS. This account will be managed
by and subject to control of the MOF. No other funds will be allowed on that account.

188.     If, after depositing funds in this NBS account, the proceeds of the credit are used for
ineligible purposes as defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Bank will require
the Borrower to either: (i) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or
(ii) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent
undisbursed amount of the credit.

189.     Accounts, Auditing and Closing Date. The MOF will be required to maintain
accounts and records showing that disbursements from the above account were in accordance
with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement. Such accounts and records will be
maintained in a form acceptable to the Bank. The Bank exercised its right to audit the deposit
accounts under earlier adjustment operations. Some minor technical breaches were noted

during the audit of one such operation. The Government subsequently amended its procedures
in respect of the handling of Bank funds and no further breaches were noted. Under PPFDPC-
1,the Bank will again exercise its right to audit the transactions from the above deposit
account to the ultimate beneficiaries' accounts.

190.     The IMF conducted a safeguards assessment of the NBS in November 2001 and
concluded that substantial risks may exist in the financial reporting framework, internal audit
mechanism, and system of internal controls. The mission proposed a series of measures to
address the identified weaknesses. The fourth review under the Extended Arrangement (report
05/13) noted that the measures are being implemented by the NBS.

191.     The NBS received an unqualified opinion from its auditor in respect of its latest
financial statements (December 31,2003). The auditor also provided a comprehensive
management letter. The NBS responded to each issue raised in the management letter and in
most cases documented the actions it would undertake to resolve the issues.

192.     The closing date of the credit is March 31, 2006.

ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS

193.     Environmental issues related to the interventions supported under PPFDPC-I include
environmental liabilities during the privatization of socially- and state-owned enterprises,
impact of electricity price increases on fuelwood consumption and sustainable forest
management and environmental control in mining operations.

194.     The Bank's 2003 SaM Country Environmental Analysis (CEA) emphasized the
environmental damage caused by industrial and agricultural enterprises, including notably by
SOEs, and pointed out the need for clearly defining liabilities for past (stock) and ongoing
(current) damage. Serbia has provided assurance to potential investors that they will be
responsible only for that damage caused after the conclusion of the sale, while also
establishing the new owners as responsible for taking measures to mitigate pollution in the
course of their operations. As a result, the Law on Privatization was amended to reflect that
the state is responsible for damage inflicted prior to execution of the sales contract and refers
to secondary legislation for the establishment of this liability. Under the Privatization and
Restructuring of Banks and Enterprises Technical Assistance Project, the Bank provided
technical assistance to the GOS for the drafting of such a regulation.

195.     The draft regulation is now available and includes provisions on the preparation and
evaluation of the environmental audit report, implementation of a remediation plan for past
damages and obligations of the buyer to prevent future damage, and supervision and control
responsibilities. The timetable for the Government adoption of the regulation is to be
finalized.

196.     In the overall context of the legal and institutional framework for sound
environmental management, it should be also noted that the GOS has been taking steps to
harmonize its legislation with the EU acquis communataire. In late 2004, four new laws were
enacted, including a New Law on Environmental Protection, and the a Law on Environmental
Impact assessment, a Law on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment and a Law on

Integrate Pollution Prevention and Control. The latter three are transpositions of the respective
EU Directives and should substantially strengthenthe government's ability to identify
responsible entities and mediate environmental concerns.

197.     The potential increase in stress on Serbian forests as a result of increased electricity
tariff would be best monitored through regular household surveys. The team will raise this
issue with the Serbia poverty monitoring team to include it in the poverty monitoring agenda
for the coming years.

RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION

198.     At the macro level, the reforms supported by the PPFDPC-1 may be threatened by
ongoing social and political instability in Serbia, where opposition may weaken the
Government's resolve to pursue the reform program. The following policy areas are among
the riskiest in terms of exacerbating political and social instability: reduction of longstanding
MOE subsidies and reforms in the energy,banking, insurance and real sectors. The reform
program will be monitored closely and the GOS and the Bank will consult on whether further
actions are required to maintain the economy on a sustainable path. Furthermore, in an effort
to mitigate the risk, a gradual approach to the reforms' phase will be adopted throughout the
DPCIL program. The social risks of the PPFDPC-1 program can also be mitigated through the
GOS' preemptive reforms in addressing the social sector issues supported through PPSDPL-1,
which will be implemented subsequent to this operation.

199.     The Bank recognizes that a multi-sectoral approach of the PPFDPC-1 is rather
ambitious and may be perceived as complex, thus risking timely completion of reforms. The
cumulative and irreversible effects of the envisaged reforms validate the approach taken
through the DPCIL program. Risks related to the inter-connectedness of the proposed reforms
and the large number of governmental institutions involved in the implementation will be
mostly mitigated through the MOF, which will assume the role of the overall DPCIL program
coordinator.

200.     Other risks relate to specific actions of the reform program:

            Delays in the implementation process of the overallprogram. The current
            capacity of some public sector institutions to implement an ambitious reform
            agenda, while much improved over the past few years, remains relatively weak.
            The execution risks will be mitigated through utilization of continued technical
            assistance facilities and active coordination of bi-lateral donor funded technical
            assistance.Furthermore, support from ongoing and proposed Bank projects in
            social protection, public sector administration will further serve to mitigate risks.
            Delays in the Parliamentary approval of apackage of laws which serves as a
            precursor to successful implementation of the reform program.

201.     Domestic and external political risks also remain high. These potential risks could
include: (i) reform 'fatigue' within government; and (ii) new Parliamentary elections prior to
Board date.

ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY




        Serbia and Montenegro (SaM): First Programmatic Private and Financial
                                   Development Policy Credit


                                                                              October 20,2005

Mr. Paul Wolfowitz
President
The World Bank
1818H Street,N.W.
Washington,D.C., 20433



Dear Mr. Wolfowitz:

1.       We are writing to request, on behalf of Serbia and Montenegro and the Republic of
Serbia,the First Programmatic Private and Financial Development Policy Credit (PPFDPC-1)
of US$55 million to support our economicreform program. This Letter of Development
Policy sets out the key actions that the Government of Serbia (GOS) is committed to
undertake over the medium-term to enhance economic growth in Serbia.

2.      As per the constitutional charter of the Serbia and Montenegro, a number of
responsibilities are transferred to the member states. Given different reform challenges and
priorities faced by the two constituent member states, Republic of Serbia and Republic of
Montenegro,we believe the two constituentrepublics should seek World Bank assistance
separately.As a consequence, the implementationof all reforms included in the PPFDPCIL
program would be the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia.

3.      The macroeconomic framework of our reform program centers on: a high quality fiscal
adjustment that will enhance macroeconomic stability and policy framework, thereby
stimulatingprivate investment; and an accelerationof policy efforts aimed at improving
efficiency, includingprivatization and enterpriserestructuring, along with measures directed
at improving competition and the investment climate. We are implementing our reform
program in the context of the noted macroeconomic framework supported by the IMF under
the Extended Arrangement (EA), which is described in greater detail in a Memorandum on
Economic and Financial Policy attached to the Letter of Intent of May 21,2004.

4.      Real GDP is expected to grow by about 4.6 percent in 2005 reflecting an upturn in
industry as privatization and enterprise restructuring continue, and cumulative FDI

inflows reach higher levels. Due mainlyto one-off factors-i.e.,   higher oil prices, rise in
the electricity prices, and increasein excise taxes-the inflation rate is projected to be
around 12.3percent in 2005 but is targeted to graduallydecline to low single digits over
the medium term.

5.      The overarching objectiveof programmatic developmentpolicy reform program
is to promote economic growth and developmentin the country through: (i) creating a
smaller, more sustainable,more efficient public sector; (ii) creating a larger, more
dynamic private sector; and (iii) reducingpoverty levels, and improving social protection
and access to public services.Public sector efficiencywill be considerably strengthened
under the DPL program, particularlyduring programmatic public sector development
policy reform (PPSDPL-1 and PPSDPL-2),where the GOS is expected to build
foundations of public resource, including financial management, transparency and
accountability.

6.      Financial management reforms will support improved budget processes including
procurement, availability and transparencyof government's financialinformation as well
as building of accountabilitymechanisms, and particularly internal and external audit.
Already, under PPFDPC-1 the GOS will initiate reforms with the submissions of the
2004 accounts to the National Assembly and the appointment of an auditor for the audit
of the 2003 and 2004 accounts as per the ~ u d ~System Law.
                                                     e t

7.      This PPFDPC-1 operation,the first of up to four such programmatic operations,
will support our reform program in achievingthe second Country Assistance Strategy
objective by focusing on two key themes: (i) strengthening fiscal discipline, and (ii)
building a more efficient and stable financial sector.

8.      We aim to achieve the following short-term outcomes through PPFDPC-1: (i)
increase Transition Fund resources to CSD 4.5 billion for redundancypayments for
employees of enterprises set forth in the list agreed upon with the World Bank, which
both spur restructuring and privatizationprospects; (ii) privatization and bankruptcy of
SOEs eliminated the need for annual direct subsidies in the order of over $30 million in
2005; (iii) by-laws to the new Law on Mining incorporating new royalties framework are
in place to support implementation of the law; (iv) financial advisors for Elektroprivreda
Srbije (EPS) engaged and EPS' power supply disruptions recorded as less than one day
per annum along with a positive operating cash flow during 2005; (v) withdrawal of all
passenger services from 7.5 percent of the Zeleznice Srbije's (ZS) network started, whilst
core ZS staff reduced by 1,900(or 7.2 percent) by end-2005 and commensurately
reducing 2006 budget subsidies; (vi) the state's holdings in majority-ownedbanks held at
end-2004 are reduced to below 11percent of total banking system assets and the non-
performing loan inventory of the Agency for Deposit Insurance (DIA) is reduced; (vii)
failed insurers liquidated in accordancewith the new law, financial advisor with
appropriate international qualifications appointed to manage the privatization of DDOR,
and the new Third Party LiabilitiesLaw is in place to offer coverage on a sustainable
basis and to fund guarantee arrangements;(viii) the new Banking Law is enacted by the
Parliament; and (ix) new Mortgage Law is adopted and the legal framework for lending

improved and strengthened.Our reform plans to reach these outcomes are briefly outlined
as follows.


I. Strengthening fiscal discipline

Kev obiective: To reduce Ministry of Economy's (MOE) subsidy program and
strengthen Transition Fund mechanisms

9.      Over the past four years, we have made a significantprogress in multi-track
privatization program aimed at divestiture of socially-ownedassets. Over this period, we
have also undertaken initial steps towards reducing the overall direct subsidies to
socially- and state-ownedenterprisesin the Serbian economy. The GOS is committed to
the private sector developmentreforms and we will continue to reduce state's
involvement in the support of socially-ownedenterprises(SOE) and accelerate the
restructuring of those companies and their privatization. As such, we have already
included a reduction of the MOE direct subsidies to socially-ownedenterprises from CSD
6.5 billion in 2004 to CSD 5 billion in 2005. In parallel, we have increased the allocation
for the Transition Fund to facilitateredundancies,which both spur restructuring and
privatization prospects.

10.     With regards to indirect subsidies, we intend to strictly enforce the disconnection
policies towards SOEs to prevent further accumulationof energy arrears. To this end, the
MOE, in cooperationwith the tax authorities and main utilities, will establish monitoring
system for the large SOEs in restructuring in order to ensure the full application of hard
budget constraints.

Key objective: To continue with privatization, restructuring and bankruptcy
proceedings of socially-owned enterprises

11.     We realize that continued existence of a large SOE sector imposes considerable
risks of disrupting fiscal discipline. As you may know, the GOS has achieved significant
progress in its privatization program from 2001 to 2004, whereas as of end-2004, more
than 1,000small- and medium-size enterprises had been sold in auctions and 35 large
enterpriseswere sold through tenders, most of them to international strategic investors.
The GOS recognizesthe importance of continuing with the privatization of SOEs, and is
committed to complete,to a large extent, the privatization program started in 2001 by
offering for sale all SOEs currently in the PA tender and auction portfolio, and all
saleable assets from the restructuring portfolio. We envision that the restructuring of large
SOEs will accelerate with the passage of the proposed amendments to the Privatization
Law related to debt restructuring. In particular, we will accelerate the resolution of RTB
Bor and Zastava,the two largest recipients of direct subsidies, while also putting into
place appropriatesocial mitigation mechanisms in these mono-industrial communities

12.     Effectivebankruptcyprocess is a prerequisite for successful enterprise
restructuring and for establishment of hard budget constraint with regards to SOE sector.

After enactment of the new BankruptcyLaw by the Parliament of Serbia in July 2004, the
implementation of one of the most important reform regulations started on February 1,
2005. In the course of 2005, the Republic of Serbia-owned or controlled creditors have
requested the court to initiate bankruptcy proceedings against a number of large SOEs
which have been receiving subsidies and failed to show tangible progress in restructuring.
More generally, the state creditors are expected to file for bankruptcy against all
enterprises that have twice failed a market test, within 90 days of the second unsuccessful
auction or tender.

13.     In March 2002, the GOS adopted a Social Program providing a range of
compensation and redeployment options for workers in large SOEs dismissed due to
restructuring and privatization. Under this scheme, dismissed workers receive about three
times the minimum specified in the Labor Law. The GOS recognizes the importance of
the Social Program and is currently in the process of discussing amendments to this
program.

Key obiective: To improve concessions framework

14.     Republic of Serbia has undertaken reforms to transition the state from a role of
owner-operator of mineral assets to that of regulator and sector administrator. As part of
this transition, the GOS will pursue improvement in the legal and regulatory framework
conducive to private sector investment. The proposed new legislation will strengthen
fiscal performance of the sector by adhering to international standards regarding
competitive taxation, foreign investment, and customs issues unique to mining and
establish framework for the negotiation, assessment, and payment of royalties in a
transparent manner.

Key obiective: To restructure EPS and prepare for eventual private participation

15.     After the Parliament of Serbia has passed the Energy Law in the third quarter of
2004, the GOS has adopted a tariff reform, strengthening of the energy sector social
safetynet, and put in place an Energy Strategy. The GOS acknowledges the importance of
reforms in the energy sector and is committed to restructure EPS through, inter alia, its
unbundling into two successor companies: an integrated generation and
distributiodsupply company, and a separate transmission company.

Kev obiective: To pursue reforms in the railway sector through restructuring of ZTP

16.     The GOS recognized the need to restructure ZTP, the largest public utility which
imposed a high fiscal cost on the budget. In March 2005, the Parliament of Serbia has
passed the new Railway Law and decree on the reorganization of ZTP. A new railway
entity,Zeleznice Srbije,was established, to which the operating assets of ZTP were
transferred. In addition, ZS has prepared a new five year strategic business plan, with
technical assistance from EBRD and input from the World Bank.

11. Building a more efficient and stable financial sector

Key obiective: To continue privatization and divestment of state-owned banks and
financial assets

17.     The GOS is committed to continue the reforms in the banking sector. As you may
know, three majority state-ownedbanks have been sold in 2005 and three other banks,
including the largest majority state-ownedbank, are to be offered for sale beginning in
late 2005. The GOS aims by end-2007 to have sold off all its majority-owned banks and
most remaining minority stakes held. The DIA has recently launched its first offering of
financial assets (loans and private enterprise equity stakes). The GOS is dedicated to
extend its sale program to other majority-owned bank holdings and thereafter, to off-load
minority state-owned bank holdings through a transparent competitive mechanism.

Kev obiective: To strengthen insurance sector regulation and resolution regime

18.     The NBS has recently initiated a series of steps to begin to modernize the
regulatory and supervisory framework for the insurance sector. It is essential that the
insurance sector restructuring include the NBS' commencement of an on-site inspection
of DDOR, and the production of audited accounts for the two publicly-owned insurers.
The Parliament adopted the amendments to Insurance Law on July 18,2005, thus
enabling the DIA to commence liquidation procedures for the 18closed insurers. In
addition to which, the recent commencement of technical assistance has begun to develop
a strategy and formulate needed regulations to put motor third-party liability scheme onto
a sound, long-term footing.

Key obiective: To launch the second-phase of the Supervisory Development Plan
(SDP)

19.     As a consequence of the uneven implementation of bank supervisory processes,
the NBS has agreed to develop a time-bound, prioritized and comprehensive "second
phase" SDP. This follow on SDP is intended, in part, to identify steps to accomplish key
tasks to implement risk based supervision. The National Bank of Serbia (NBS) Governor
is slated to formally adopt this "second phase" SDP which reinforces the importance of
key supervisory activities. Overarching this initiative, the Ministry of Finance and the
NBS are undertaking a full review of the Law on Banks and Banking. Upon seeking
comment from the industry, public, the World Bank and IMF, it is envisaged the new law
will be introduced to Parliament in late 2005.

Key obiective: To improve access to finance

20.     The GOS recognizes that administrative barriers, limited access to finance and
high cost of financing are still major impediments to successful business development.
Through a passage of a new Mortgage Law, the GOS intends to improve the efficiency of
mortgage creation and enforcement, which in turn will encourage rapid development of
the primary mortgage market and ultimately, the secondary mortgage market.

21.    The GOS is undertaking major actions to address pending structural problems and
improve the business climate. We remain resolute to deepen the reforms in the future, and
to complement them with measures aimed at strengthening fiscal discipline and building
a more efficient and stable financial sector together with policy actions directed at
enhancing the competitiveness of the Serbian economy.

22.    The GOS undertakes to continue working on these policy issues, for which the
support by the World Bank and the rest of the international community will be of vital
importance in attaining our objectives of placing the country on a path of sustainable and
equitable growth as well as integration into European structures.

23.    In conclusion, we would like to reiterate the commitment of SaM and Republic of
Serbia to all these reforms, and we trust that this request for World Bank support for their
implementation will receive your favorable consideration.




 Ministerfor International Economic Relations           Minister of i"inal.icc
 Serbia and Montenegro                                  Republic uf Serbia

ANNEX 2: GOVERNMENT POLICYIOVERALLGOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM

1.       Serbia's reform program is anchored in the Stabilization and Association Process
(SAP) and the Poverty Reduction StrategyPaper. With a shared objective of EU integration,
these two strategies present a comprehensivereform agenda designed to achieve sustainable
long-term growth and poverty reduction.

2.       At the European Summit in Thessalonicaheld in June 2003, the European Union
offered European Partnership as one of the key instruments of the EU pre-accession strategy
for the potential EU membership candidates.The Partnership outlines both short-term (12-24
months) and medium-term (3-4 years) priorities for the preparations for further integration in
the EU. This mechanism shall exclusivelydetermine relations between the EU and SAM until
the Stabilization and Association Agreement has been signed. However, the SAP agenda is
very broad, encompassing political as well as economic criteria and reforms and Serbia and
Montenegro are in the early stages of the process.

3.       Recently, the state union of Serbia-Montenegroon April 13th2005 received a
positive assessment of the country's feasibility study for concluding the Stabilization and
Association Agreement (SAA) with the EU."

4.       In addition to maintaining macroeconomic stability, the SAP envisaged economic
reforms in (i) Private sector development:liberalizing remaining prices and removing
administrative controls; speeding up restructuring,privatization andlor liquidation, developing
a stable and functioning land real estate market, and developing and implementing a
comprehensive strategyto promote employment and combat unemployment; abolishing
export duties and import levies and modernize customs; and improving business registration
(ii) Public sector reform: ensuring effective functioning o f the state and financialviability of
state institutions; reform of the army and electoral law, public administration reform including
reform of the civil service pay system, and preparation of comprehensive anti-corruption
strategies; formalizing the grey economy, and broadening the tax base and implementingthe
tax reform package, including VAT; establishingan effective public procurement regime; and
developing reliable statistics.

5.       This Serbian Governmentprepared an "Action Plan for Meeting the Priorities of the
European Partnership" as adopted in April 2004. As a follow-up to consultations with the
representatives of the EU Commission, amendments to the Action Plan were adopted in
November 2004. In this way the Government devised a plan of short- and medium-term
activitieswithin the framework of the Stabilization and Association ~rocess.'~




I'The Feasibility report for SAM considers of a number of criteria: the degree of compliance with SAP political
and economic conditions, the overall functioning of the State Union, the existence o f a single trade policy and a
single market, progress on sectoral reforms and on those institutions at the state level necessary to implement the
possible SAA.


l8Document and the detailed matrix available at http://www.seio.sr.gov.yu/

6.      Among the other goals the GOS Action Plan has explicitlylisted the following
objectives, consistent with the PPFDPC-1:

       Take account of the inevitable costs of structural reforms and rising interest payments,
       clearly prioritize public spendingin short and medium term budgeting; in particular
       reduce subsidies, transfers and the civil servicewage bill.
       Continue fiscal adjustment and consolidation to reduce relativelyhigh fiscal and in
       particular external imbalance.
       Adjust energyprices towards cost recovery levels.
       Accelerate restructuring, privatization andlor liquidation or large socially and state-
       owned enterprises.
       Accelerate the restructuringof large publicly-owned utilities (electricity,oil and gas,
       railway, airline, telecommunicationsetc.)
       Continue banking sector reform more vigorously and in particular the preparation of
       privatization of the state-owned banks.
       Ensure allocation of sufficientbudgetary resources for redundancyand restructuring
       costs.
       Complete the enterpriseprivatizationprocess.
       Complete financial(bank) restructuring.
       Strengthen a business environmentconducive to private sector development and
       employment with competitivemarkets, level playing fields and access to finance
       through financial sector development.

7.      In parallel to the above referencedAction Plan, the Governmenthas adopted a more
focused plan for the removal of administrativebarriers to foreign investment, in May 2004.
The Action plan for the removal of administrativebarriers to foreign investment is divided
into four sections: (i) Company start-upprocedures, (ii) Infi-astructuredevelopment, (iii)
Company operationalprocedures; and (iv) Other systemic measures, public administration
reform andjudiciary reform. It contains concrete measures, with set deadlines,which is to be
monitored via an inter-ministerialCommittee for the promotion of investments into Serbia
that meets on a regular basis.

 ANNEX 3: PPFDPC-1 POLICY MATRIX

                                                                                        POLICY ACTTONS

 SUBJECT               Conditions of PPFDPC-I Tranche                 Short-term                                                               Overall Program         Counterpart1
                                                                                                   Triggers for PPFDPC/L2
                                      Release                          Outcomes                                                                     Outcomes           Responsible
                                                                                                                                                                          Entity
 OVERAIRAIIAPPFDPCIL PROGRAM OBJECTIVES: The objectiveof                                 OVERALLPPFDPCL PROGRAM OUTCOMES: Reduce subsidiesso as to
 Programmatic Private and Financial DPL series is to strengthenfiscal disciplinein the   facilitatcstaffredundancies,thcrebypermittingthe restructuringandlor sale of effected
 enterprise,energy and transport sectors,build more efficientand stable financialsector, statc enterprises and public utilities, minimizing market distortions createdby such
 and improve the investment climatethrough series of policy reforms.                     enterprises. Additionally the program outcomes are to reduce the government's holdings
                                                                                         in the banking and insurance sectorsand of financialassets, strengthenthe respective
                                                                                         regulatory and supervisory regimes, increase accessto real estate finance and overall,
                                                                                         further improve the investment climate.
 1.Macro-
                    The macroeconomicpolicy framework of the Borrower and the Republicof Serbia is satisfactory,as measured on the basis of indicators agreedbetween the
 cconomic
                    Borrower and the Republic of Serbia, and the Bank.
 Framework

I                                                            PPFDPCn PILLAR I: Strengthening fiscal discipline                                                                      1
 2. Reductionof     The Government of the Republic of            TF funds available      CAS High Case Trigger:                              Substantialreduction      MOE, MOF,
 MOE subsidy        Serbia has proposed to the Parliament        for redundancy              Reduction in budgetsubsidies.                   in the direct MOE         MLESP

 program and        of the Republic of Serbia to dccrcasc        payments for the                                                            subsidiesover the
 strengthening of   the direct subsidiestu socially-owned        companies in the List
 TransitionFund     enterprises undergoing restructuring         increased to 4.5
 mechanisms         from CSD 5 billion, allocated for such       billion.
                    purposes in the 2005 State Budget, to
                    CSD 3.85 billion in the 2006 State
                    Budget.

                    The Government of the Republic of
                    Serbia has agreed to make available
                    CSD 4.5 billion from the Transition
                    Fund for severance payments to
                    employees of socially-owned
                    enterprises, such enterprises having
                    been set forth in the list agreed upon by
                    the Bank.

                                                                                  ,
                                                                                   POLICY ACTIONS
                                                                                                                                                             Government
SUBJECT              Conditions of PPFDPC-1 Tranche              Short-term                                                             Overall Program      Counterpart/
                                                                                              Triggers for PPFDPCIL-2
                                    Release                       Outcomes                                                                  Outcomes         Responsible
                                                                                                                                                               Entity
3. Privatization, StartingDecember 1,2004: (i) the           Privatization and     CAS High Case Triggers:                            Increase in private    MOE, PA
Restructuringand  Privatization Agency of the Republic of    bankruptcy of SOEs         Reduction in the state's share in economic    sector share of
Bankruptcyof      Serbia has offered for sale no less than   removesthe need for        activity.                                     employmentand
Socially-Owned    eighteen socially-owned enterprises and    annual direct              Restructuring of state debt that impedes      industrial output
Enterprises       sold at least nine socially-owned          subsidiesin the order      enterprise restructuring.
                  enterprises through its tender program;    of $30million in           Privatization of viable enterprises and       Reduction in subsidies
                  (ii) PA has offered for sale through       2005.                      bankruptcy of those that cannot be sold.      allocated to SOE
                  auctions no less than 180socially-owned                                                                             sector.
                  enterprises, and sold at least 40 percent                        Starting on October 1,2005, the PA will: (i)
                  of such socially-owned enterprises; (iii)                        offer for sale no less than 18SOEs and sell at
                  PA has offered for sale no less than eight                       least 9 through its tender program; (ii) offer for
                  socially-owned enterprises, or significant                       sale through auctionsno less than 450 socially-
                  parts thereof (i.e., representing no less                        owned enterprises, and sell at least 40% of
                  than 50 percent of the total assets), from                       them; (iii) offer for sale no less than 25 SOEs
                  the list of enterprises undergoing                               from the list of companiesunder restructuring,
                  restructuring, using, as applicable,                             or significantparts thereof (i.e., representing no
                  tenders, auctions and asset sales                                less than 50% of the total assets),using, as
                  procedures, and sold at least three                              applicable, tenders, auctions and asset sales
                  socially-owned enterprises set forth in                          procedures, and sellat least 7 SOEs from the
                  the restructuring list; and (iv)Republic                         same list.
                  of Serbia-owned or controlled creditors
                  have requested the courts to initiate                            Starting on October 1,2005, Republic of

                  bankruptcy proceedings for at least 6                            Serbia-ownedor controlled creditors will

                  large SOEs set forth in the                                      request the courts to initiatebankruptcy

                  restructuring list.                                              proceedings for: (i) at least 8 large SOEs from
                                                                                   the RestructuringList; and (ii) a number of
                                                                                   additional SOEs that have unsuccesshlly been
                                                                                   offered for sale twice through auction or tender.

                                                                                   The Governmentof the Republic of Serbiawill
                                                                                   submitthe Take-over of CompaniesLaw and
                                                                                   amendments to SecuritiesMarkets Law to the
                                                                                   Parliament.

                                                                                   POLICY ACTIONS
                                                                                                                                                           Government
 SUBJECT              Conditions of PPFDPC-1 Tranche               Short-term                                                        Overall Program       Counterpart1
                                                                                              Triggers for PPFDPC/L-2
                                     Release                        Outcomes                                                              Outcomes         Responsible
                                                                                                                                                             Entity
 4. Concessions    The Government of the Republic of          The Law on Mining    Regulationsthat defineprocedures for            Transactionsunder the   MIER,
                   Serbia has submitted to the Parliament     is adopted by the    assessmentof annual mineralproduction,          new law have been       MEM, MOF
                   of the Republic of Serbia amendments       Parliament.          surfaceand filing fees, royalties and payment   initiated.
                   to the Law on Mining, satisfactory to                           procedures, and resolution of disputes and
                   the Bank, incorporating a new royalties                         conflicts are in place.
                   framework

 5. EPS            The Government of the Republic of          EPS Financial        CAS High Case Trigger:                          GOS has begun           MEM
                   Serbia has launched an international       Adviser engaged.          Strong progress on EPS restructuring.      restructuring of EPS in
                   tender to engage a Financial Adviser                                 Establishment and then strengtheningof     accordance with
                   for Elektroprivreda Srbije, in             Power supply              the energy regulator with a view to moving agreed action plan to
                   accordance with terms of references        disruptions recorded      tofull tarzff-setting authority.           further improve its
                   and procedures satisfactory to the         as less than one day                                                 financialperformance
                   Bank.                                      per annum.           Financial Adviser to deliver to GOS             and to meet internal
                                                                                   recommendationson restructuring of EPS.         and external pre-
                                                              EPS' operating cash                                                  conditions for private
                                                              flowto be positive   Regulatoryframeworkis in place providing for
                                                                                                                                   sectorparticipation.
                                                              for 2005.            transparent rules for setting cost recovery
                                                                                   tariffs.

16. Railway sector Zeleznice Srbije (ZS) has reduced ZS       Core ZS staff will   CAS High Case Trigger:                          Followingthe            ZS, MCI,
                   staff engaged in core ZS activities by     have been reduced by Restructuring of the railways.                  retrenchmentof          MOF
                   1,900,or 7.2 percent of total ZS core      1,900,or 7.2%, by                                                    surplus labor, the
                   staff of 26,212 employed as of January     end-2005,            Core ZS staffhave been reduced by a further     withdrawal of
                   1,2005, and ZS and GOS have adopted        commensurately       1,000employees,or 3.8% of total ZS core staff   passenger services
                   the 2005 Business Plan.                    reducing CY2006      as of January 1,2005.                           fromunviable lines,
                                                              budget subsidies.                                                    and the divestiture of
                   ZS to begin the withdrawal of all                               ZS has withdrawn passenger services froma       non-core activities, as
                   passenger services from 7.5 percent of the ZS will have         further 6.3 percent (218km) of the network by   defined in the project,
                   network (260km), convert them to           withdrawn all        about mid-2006,unless service specific Public   overall budget support
                   manipulation lines in 2005 and finalize    passenger services   Service Contracts (PSC) are agreed.             to the railway sector
                   plans for similar activities through2009   from 7.5% of the                                                     will be significantly
                                                                                   ZS has transferred 3 additionalnon-core
                   in the 2005-2009Strategic Plan.            network.                                                             reduced (in constant
                                                                                   activities to Privatization Agency.
                                                                                                                                   prices).
                   Begin implementationof the approved


                                                                              POLICY ACTIONS
                                                                                                                                                I Government
SUBJECT          Conditions of PPFDPC-1 Tranche               Short-term                                                     Overall Program     Counterpart1
                                                                                       Triggers for PPFDPCk-2
                                Release                       Outcomes                                                           Outcomes         Responsible
                                                                                                                                                    Entity
              company.                                   qualificationshas                                                 sound financialand
                                                         been appointed to                                                 operatingbasis.
              Strategyfor TPL refonn has been agreed     manage privatization
              and a draft law submittedto the            of DDOR.                                                          A new TPL regime has
              Parliament.                                                                                                  been introducedto
                                                         New TPL Law is in                                                 securethe rights of
                                                         place to offer                                                    legitimateclaimants.
                                                         coverageon a                                                    +
                                                         sustainablebasis and
                                                         to fund guarantee
                                                         arrangements.

              The Supervisory Review Committeeof         New Banking Law      By-laws needed to implement the new Banking  The NBS has            NBS (Bank
                                                                                                                          I
              the NBS Banking Supervision                enactedby the        Law are in place, includingby-law(s)         significantly          Supervision

Supervisory   Department(BSD) and the Governor           Parliament.          addressingsound risk managementprocesses     strengthenedits        Department)

Development   of the NBS have adopted the second                              and accurateand timely reportingof risks.    capacityto regulate

Plan (SDP)    phase of the SupervisoryDevelopment                                                                          and supervisebanks on

              Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, and the                                                                      a consolidatedbasis

              NBS BSD has continued its                                                                                    and is consistently
              implementation.                                                                                              holding accountable
                                                                                                                           bank Directors and
              Implementationhas been demonstrated                                                                          Officersfor
              by:                                                                                                          misstatements in
                                                                                                                           banks' published
              (i) revised draft of a comprehensive SOP,                                                                    financialstatements.
              satisfactoryto the Bank,

              (ii) risk matrices and supervisory
              strategiesfor banks examinations
              completed as of September30, 2005;

              (iii) a time-bound corrective action plan
              to address Basel Core Principles
              weaknesses identified;
             1(iv) for those banks whose deadlinefor    I

I                                                                         POLICY ACTIONS

 SUBJECT          Conditions of PPFDPC-1 Tranche             Short-term                                                  Overall Program     Counterpart/
                                                                                    Triggers for PPFDPCIL-2
                                 Release                     Outcomes                                                        Outcomes        Responsible


               implementationof corrective action
               measures has expired as of September 20,
               2005, the NBS is to verify that provisions
               have been taken by the deadline specified
               in the corrective action plan and are
               reflected on subject banks' financial and
               replatory reports;

               (v) NBS has issued a new regulation,
               effective January 1,2006, that requires
               the examinedbanks to book NBS directed
               provisions no later than the end of the
               quarter of the NBS' issuance of the
               corrective measures and makc necessary
               changes in regulatory reports.

 10.Access to  The Government of the Republic of          New Mortgage Law By-laws or regulations, if any, needed to   Development of the    MIER, MOF
 Finance       Serbia has submittedto the Parliament      adopted.         support implementationof Law on Mortgage    legal Eramework for
               of the Republic of Serbia a draft Law                       adopted.                                    the primary market
               On Mortgage, satisfactory to the Bank.                                                                  (market based housing
                                                                                                                       finance system) and
                                                                                                                       help a creation of
                                                                                                                       secondarymortgage
                                                                                                                       market to ensure
                                                                                                                       sustainabilityof
                                                                                                                       lending.

ANNEX 4: FUND RELATIONS NOTE

On June 29, 2005, the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) concluded the
Article IVconsultation with Serbia and Montenegro (Public Information Notice No. 05/84). The
Executive Board also completed the fifth review of Serbia and Montenegro's economic performance
under an Extended Arrangement (Press Release No. 051155). The completion of the review enables
the release of an amount equivalent to SDR 125 million (about US$182.9 million), which would bring
the total disbursement under the program to SDR 587.5 million (about $US859.7 million). In
completing the review, the Board also approved Serbia and Montenegro's request for waivers of four
performance criteria. In addition, the Board completed a Financing Assurances Review and approved
a request to rephase the eleventh and final disbursement, which would become available upon the
completion of the sixth review.

The Extended Arrangement was approved in May 2002 for a total amount equivalent to SDR 650
million (about U S 9 51.1million) to support Serbia and Montenegro's 2002-2005 economic program
(see Press Release No. 02/25). The arrangement was extended in May 2005 until December 31,2005.

Following the Executive Board's discussion on Serbia and Montenegro, Mr. Takatoshi Kato, Deputy
Managing Director and Acting Chair, stated:

"Following a mixed program implementation during the third year of their Extended Arrangement
with the Fund, the authorities of Serbia and Montenegro have agreed on an appropriate set of
corrective actions to deal with the growing macroeconomic imbalances. While economic growth has
been commendably strong, the continued strength of domestic demand, sustained by a credit boom
and inflows of remittances, as well as the constraints stemming from the high euroization and
structural rigidities have contributed to a resurgence in inflation and a persistently large current
account deficit. The authorities' policies of further fiscal and monetary tightening and accelerated
structural reforms should help reverse the imbalances.

"The tighter fiscal stance is welcome. Following the heavy reliance in the short run on higher
revenues, it will now be important to implement the cuts in permanent spending, mostly through
pension reform and lower subsidies, that will help achieve a sustainable reduction in the size of the
public sector.

"The envisaged monetary tightening should help contain demand and inflationary pressures. The
strong pressure from recently established foreign banks competing for market shares to increase credit
calls for heightened vigilance, and the authorities should stand ready to take further measures to
tighten monetary conditions if needed. The privatization of the two largest state-owned banks in
Serbia will be a key priority for the period ahead.

"The use of the exchange rate to bear down on inflationary pressures is understandable given those
pressures and the extent of euroization. However, the approach is sustainable only in the measure in
which the tightening of macroeconomic policies offsets the impact of this policy on the current
account. More fundamentally, structural reforms, in particular, privatization and restructuring of
publicly controlled enterprises, need to be accelerated to stimulate export growth, and enhance
medium-term external sustainability. Strict enforcement of bankruptcy procedures is also needed to
reallocate resources within the economy.

"In Montenegro, the implementation of the agreed reduction in the fiscal deficit of about one percent
of GDP will help contain demand and the external deficit in line with the program. The large
privatization revenues should be used mainly to retire domestic debt. The development of a debt and

asset management strategy, strengthened revenue collection and acceleration of civil service reform
will be essential to create room for additional public investment.

"Strong implementation of the envisaged policy package will be key to lowering macroeconomic
imbalances, containing program risks, and boosting growth in the medium term. This will also be key
to ensuring the international community's continued support for Serbia and Montenegro's adjustment
and reform efforts," Mr. Kato said.

Background

Macroeconomic imbalances in Serbia and Montenegro have widened in 2004 putting at risk some of
the impressive earlier achievements. Growth, around 5 percent in non-agriculture since 2002, has
been fueled by a surge in domestic demand. Lack of competitive domestic production has led to
increased imports and a widening current account deficit. Annual inflation returned to double-digit
levels reflecting demand pressures and faster dinar depreciation coupled with widespread euro-
indexation. The current account deficit reached 15percent of GDP in 2004; the increase only partly
explained by the value added tax (VAT) induced shift of imports in late 2004. In Montenegro, the
adoption of the euro has stabilized inflation at 3-4 percent. However, a large current account deficit,
financed by foreign borrowing and, in 2005 by privatization receipts, risks eroding domestic
competitiveness.

The attempts to use exchange rate policy to address rising inflation or deteriorating external balances
have failed due to important structural rigidities. Exchange rate depreciation led to surging inflation
given the high euro-indexation of prices, and small share of competitive supply, and fixing the
exchange rate worsened the external balances, as a rigid spending structure limited fiscal tightening
and loose wage policy boosted demand.

The fiscal stance has increasingly been tightened to strengthen demand management. The deficit
declined from over 5 percent of GDP in 2002 to a projected surplus in 2005. However, the bulk of the
adjustment was due to an increase in revenues, while cuts in current spending have been more limited.
As a result, the revenue burden and.the size of government, with expenditures at 45 percent of GDP,
remain the highest in the region. Monetary policy has been accommodating, weakened by increasing
euroization and complicated by a credit boom.

The slow structural reform is at the core of the macroeconomic imbalances and rigidities. With the
private sector at barely half of the GDP, the competitive supply remains limited. The weak financial
discipline in many of the public enterprises has reduced public savings and undermined the tight fiscal
policy pursued at the central government level. Given the external financing constraint to investment,
enterprise restructuring is increasingly important for growth and for the efficient reallocating
resources within the economy.

The main policy challenge is to maintain macroeconomic stability while accelerating structural
reform. Fiscal policy needs to be tightened substantially, and its flexibility increased by reducing the
large share of non-discretionary spending. A tighter monetary policy, despite the high level of
euroization, is necessary to slow down the credit boom and foreign borrowing fuelling imports.
Structural ieforms should be deepened through the privatization and liquidation of socially-owned
companies, restructuring of the state enterprises, and hardening financial discipline. The successful
bank privatization should continue, with the entry of new banks boosting competition. Bank
supervision is to be strengthened to deal with increased foreign currency risk and credit activity.

                               Serbia and Montenegro: Fund Relations
                                             As of May 31,2005

    I.   Membership Status:Joined December 14, 1992(succeeding to membership of the former
          SFR Yugoslavia); adopted Article VIII on May 13,2002.

    LI.   GeneralResources Account                                    SDR Million                      %Quota
         Quota                                                               467.70                     100.00
         Fund Holdings of Currency                                         1,036.56                     221.63


   111.   SDR Department                                              SDR Million                %Allocation
         Net cumulative allocation                                            56.66                      100.00
         Holdings                                                                1.90                       3.35


   IV.   Outstanding Purchases and Loans                              SDR Million
         Extended arrangement                                                462.50
          Stand-by arrangements                                               72.50

   V.    Latest Financial Arrangements

         D2.E                            Approval    Expiration       Amount Approved         Amount Drawn
                                           Date         Date            (SDR Million)          [SDR Million)
         EFF                              5/14/02     12/31/05               650.00                462.50
          Stand-by                        6111/01      5131/02               200.00                200.00


   VI.   ProjectedPayments to Fund (Expectation as is)'^
          (SDR Million; based on existing use of resources and present holdings of SDRs)
                                                                 Forthcoming
                                            2005          2006             2007           2008            2009
         Principal                          87.60         27.08            50.00        116.67           145.83
          Charges/Interest                  10.66         18.75            17.70          14.93           10.27
         Total                              98.26         45.83            67.70        131.59           156.11

Contact persons:
Ms. Piritta Sorsa (psorsa(i?Jirnf.org,202-623-8657),Mr. Eric Mottu (emottu@imf.org), Mr. Andreas
Westphal (awesiahal@imf.org, 202-623-7389),and, for Montenegro, Mr. Magnus Alvesson
(malvesson@,imf.org,202-623-6372).




l 9This schedule presents all currently scheduled payments to the IMF, including repayment expectations where
applicable and repayment obligations otherwise. The IMF Executive Board can extend repayment expectations
(within predetermined limits) upon request by the debtor country if its external payments position is not strong
enough to meet the expectations without undue hardship or risk.

ANNEX 5: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS




                             Serbia and Montenegro - Key Economic Indicators




 Total Consumption                                   1 0 3 .  107     107   106  111  109  110  107  105
 Gross domestic fixed investment                      15       13      16    16   18   16   18  20   20
  Government investment                                3        2       3    2    3    3    4    4    4
  Private investment                                  12       12      12   13    15   13   14   15   16


 Exports (GNFS)~                                      30      24       21
 Imports (GNFS)                                       47      45       44

 Gross domestic savings                               -3       -7      -7

 Gross national savingsC                              10        9       7

 Memorandum items
 Gross domestic product                             8603    11576  15528
 (US$ million at current prices)
 GNI per capita (US$, Atlas method)                 1220     1260    1390

 Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1998 prices)
  Gross domestic product at market prices            5.0      5.5     3.8
  Gross Domestic Income                              5.0      5.4     3.9

 Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1998 prices)
  Gross domestic product at market prices            5.4      5.7     4.1
  Total consumption                                  4.8     13.6     7 7
  Private consumption                               18.5     15.8     6.2

 Balance of Payments (US$millions)
  ports (GNFS)~                                    2547     2743     3241
    Merchandise FOB                                 1923    2003     2412

  Imports ( G N F S ~                              4004     5160     6857
    Merchandise FOB                                 3711    4837     6320
  Resource balance                                 -1457    -2417   -3616
  Net current transfers                             1119     1915    2343
  Current account balance                           -337     -528   -1384

  Net private foreign direct investment               25      165     562
  Long-term loans (net)                              213     299      378
  Other capital (net, incl errors & ornrniss~ons)    345     459     1260
  Change in reservesd                               -246     -395    -816

 Memorandum items
 Resource balance (% of GDP)                       -16 9    -20.9    -23.3

                        Serbia and Montenegro - Key Economic Indicators
                                                       (Continued)


                                                            Actual                Estlmate          Projected
                Indicator                     2000       2001       2002    2003   2004    2005   2006     2007   2008


Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
 Current revenues                                37.5       39.6       44.2   42.5    44.8   43.6   43.5     43.2   43.1
 Current expenditures                            34.4       37.7       43.7   42.3    41.9   41.1   40.2     39.5   39.3
 Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)       3.1        2.0        0.6    0.3     3.0    2.4    3.3      3.8    3.8
 Capital expenditure and net lending              3.3        2.5        3.8    3.8     3.7    2.7    3.8      4.2    4.3
 Foreign financing                                0.0        0.0        1.8    1.2     1.0    1.4    0.1     -0.3   -0.7

Monetary indicators
 M2IGDP
 Growth of M2 (%)

Price indices( YR98 =loo)
 Real exchange rate (USSILCU)'                 100.0        77.8       60.3   50.4    50.0   48.1   48.6     48.0   47 7

 Consumer price index (% change)                 69.9       91.1       21.2   11.3     9.5   13.0    7.7      6.6    4.4
 GDP deflator (% change)                         88.5       91.7       24.6   16.0     9.9   14.4    7.9      7.3    4.9



a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding officlal capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in USSILCU denotes appreciation.

ANNEX 6: KEY EXPOSURE INDICATORS



                         Serbia and Montenegro - Key Exposure Indicators



                                                        Actual                   Estimate                 Projected
                Indicator                   2000     2001      2002      2003     2004       2005      2006     2007    2008


 Total debt outstanding and                 10830     10941     11841      14302   14790      14578      16305    17730  19102
 disbursed (TDO) S US$^)^


 Net disbursements (US$m)a                       ..      502       677      1236     1291      1354       1929     2025   2071


 Total debt service (TDS)

 (US$m)l


 Debt and debt service indicators

 (%I
   TDOIXGS~
   TDOIGDP
   TDSIXGS
   ConcessionaliTDO


 IBRD exposure indicators (%)
   IBRD DSipublic DS
   Preferred creditor DSlpublic

   DS (%)'
   IBRD DSIXGS
   IBRD TDO US$^)^
     Of which present value of
     guarantees (US%m)
   Share of IBRD portfolio (%)                             ..      91.8     89.3      86.0      83.1      79.6     77.3    76.4

   IDA TDO ( ~ ~ $ m f                                     ..       168      273      462        574       711      805    842




 a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
    term capital.
 b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
 c. Preferred creditors are detined as IBRD, IDA, the regional mulhlateral development banks, the IMF, and the
    Bank for International Settlements.
 d. Includes present value of guarantees.
 e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



ANNEX 9: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE


                   Serbia and Montenegro at a glance
                                                                                                                               1o124105


                                                          Serbia Europe B      Lower-
POVERNand SOCIAL                                            and   Central      mlddle-                                                I
                                                                                          I Developmentdiamond'
                                                      Montenegro     Asia      income
2004
Population, mid-year (millions)                              8.3
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                         2,620
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                            21.7

Average annual growth, 1998-04

Population (%J                                              -0.2
Laborforce (%)                                              -1 0                                     ~f
                                                                                            e i
                                                                                            capita
Most recent estimate (latestyear avallable, 1998-04)

Poverty (% of population below nationalpoveifyline)           10
Urban population (% of totalp0p~iati0i7)                      52
Life expectancyat birth (years)                               73
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                       16
                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                          1
                                                                                          ~
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                     2                                  Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)            98
                                                                                                                                       I
Literacy(% ofpopulation age 15+)
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)           99                                -Serbia      and Montenegro

   Male                                                       99                                 -     Lower-middle-incomegroup
   Female                                                     99

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS

                                                   1984     1994                           1                                           I
                                                                                             Economicratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                    ..    10.9
Gross capital formationlGDP
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                                                                              Trade

Gross domestic savingslGDP                                                                                      -
Gross national savings1GDP

Current account baiancelGDP                                                                I Domestic                       Cap~tal
interest paymentslGDP                                                                        savlngs                        formation
Total debffGDP
Total debt servicelexports
Present vaiue of debWGDP
Presentvaiue of debffexports
                                                                                                           Indebtedness
                                        1984-94  1994-04    2003     2004
(average annual growth)                                                                                                                I
GDP                                           ..     1.4     2.7       7.2                       -Serbia      and Montenegro

GDP per capita                                ..     4.9     2.8       7.1                       ----Lower-middle-incomegroup
Exportsof goods and services                  ..     9.4     7 3     42 5



STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                            Growth of capital and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
                                                                                            4 0 -
Agriculture
lndustry
  Manufacturing
Services

Househoidfinal consumptionexpenditure
Generai gov't final consumptionexpenditure
Importsof goods and services


                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                            Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
                                                                                            60 -
Agriculture
Industry
  Manufacturing
Services

Househoidfinal consumptionexpenditure
General gov't final consumptionexpenditure
Gross capital formation
Imports of goods and services


Note: 2004 data are preliminaryestimates

'The diamondsshow four key indicatorsin the country(in bold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage If data are missing,the diamondwill
   be incomplete.

                                                                          Serbia and Montenegro

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE

                                                        Inflation (%)                                        I
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices
implicit GDP deflator

Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue
Current budget balance
Overaii sumius/deflcit


TRADE
                                                                                                             I
                                                           Export and import levels (US$mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                       14.000-
 Food
 Other fuel
 Manufactures
Total imports (cif)
 Food
 Fuel and energy
 Capital goods

Export price index (2000=100)
Import price index (2000=100)
Terms of trade (2000=100)


BALANCE of PAYMENTS

                                                                                                             I
                                                           Current account balance to GDP (%)

Exports of goods and services
Imports of goods and services
Resource balance

Net income
Net current transfers

Current account balance

Financing items (net)
Changes in net reserves

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)
Conversion rate (DEC, locai/US$)


EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                          1                                                  I
                                                           ~ o m ~ o s i t i ofn2004 debt (US$mill.)
                                                                             o

Total debt outstanding and disbursed
  IBRD
  IDA

Total debt service
  IBRD
  IDA

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants
  Official creditors
  Private creditors
  Foreign direct investment (net inflows)
  Portfolio equity (net inflows)

World Bank program
                                                                                                             I
  Commitments                                190   181  A - I B R D                            E - Bilateral
  Disbursements                              95    164     B- IDA        D Other rnulfilateral
                                                                             -                 F Pnvate
                                                                                                 -
  Principal repayments                        0     0      C - IMF                             G Short-term
                                                                                                 -
  Net flows
  Interest payments
  Net transfers


Develo~mentEconomics                                                                                  10124/05

MAP SECTION


                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 31506R2

   18                                          19                                       20                                   21                                        22                              23



                          H U N G A R Y                                                                                                                                 SERBIA AND
                                                                                       Szeged                                                    Arad              MONTENEGRO
              Pcs                                                 Subotica                  Kanjiza
 46                    Mohcs                                                                                                                                                       EUROPEAN HIGHWAYS             46
                                                                     Bajmok            Senta                                                                                         OTHER CLASS I HIGHWAYS

                                                                    Backa
                                                                                                                                                                                     RAILWAYS
                                                                                                    Kikinda
                                                         Sombor     Topola                Ada
                                                                                                                                               Timisoara                             AIRPORTS

                                                 Apatin       Sivac VVeliO J V OBecejD I N A                                                                                         TOWNS
                                                                         ki
                                                                  Kula                                                                                                               REPUBLIC OR PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                    Osijek                                       Srbobran
                                                                                                Tisa                                                                                 NATIONAL CAPITALS

   CROATIA                                                                                              Elemir
                                                                                        Temerin                                                                                      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                               Backa
                                                                                                Zrenjanin                                                                            REPUBLIC BOUNDARY
                           Vinkovci                            Palanka                                                                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                         Novi Sad
                                                             Sid
                                                                                                                                                  Vrsac
                                                                                                                                Alibunar

 45                                                                        Ruma       Indija                                                                                                                      45
                                                                                                                                                 Bela

                             Brcko
                                                                                                                     Pancevo                   Crkva                                           ROMANIA
                                                                      Sabac
                                                                      
                                               Bijeljina                         Sava                             BELGRADE        Kovin
                                                                                                 Zeleznik
                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                    Danube

                                                                                            Obrenovac               Smederevo                  Pozarevac          Golubac                     Kladovo

                                                              Loznica                                                                    Velika
                                                                                                         Mladenovac         Smed.                                             Majdanpek
      BOSNIA AND                                       Drina                                                             Palanka          Mora             Petrovac
                                                                               Valjevo                                        Velika-
     HERZEGOVINA                                                                                                                             av
                                                                                                                               Plana                               Zagubica
                                                                                                                                                                                           Negotin
                                                                  Ljubovija                                 S E R B I A
                                                                                                                                                                                      Bor
                                                                                                     Gornji                                                                                                 Vidin
 44                                                                         Rogacica            Milanovac         Kragujevac                                                                                      44

          SARAJEVO                                                                                                                Jagdiina                Cuprija
                                                                                                                                                                                 Zajecar
                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                  Uzice                  Cacak
                                                                                                                                             Paracin
                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                              Pozega
                                                                                                   

                                                                                                            Kraljevo        Zapadna                                Soko                               BULGARIA
                                                                                                                                     Morav                         Banja
                                                                                                                                                 a                             Knjazevac
                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                          Ivanjica                                                 Krusevac          Aleksinac

                                    Foca
                                       

                                                                             Prijepolje                                                                                  Nis
                                                      Pljevlja                Lim        Uvac

                                                      Tara                       Sjenica                  Raska                                         Prokuplje
                                                                                                                                                                                       Bela
                                                                                                                                                                               Morava
                                                                                                                                                                                    Palanka      Pirot
                                                                                                 Novi Pazar            Sitnica                                            Juzna



 43                                                               Bijelo Polje
                                                                                                                                                                    Leskovac                                       43

                                                                                                                               Kosovska
                                 M O N T E N E G R O                                                                           Mitrovica
                                                                                       Berane                                      Vucitrn
                                                                                                                                     
                                            Niksic
                                                  

                                                                                                                                                 Pristina
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                        Pec B                                                           Priboj
CROATIA              Herceg-                                                                                   eli K   O      S    O        V      O                 Vranje
                     Novi                                                                                                                        Gnjilane                                Bosilegrad
                                       Podgorica                                                            mirD
                                                                                                      Dakovica      Orahovac                                            Bujanovac
                                           Cetinje
                                                                                                                              Urosevac
                                                                                                                                                            Presevo
                                                                                                                                                                


                                                                   Lake                                                 Prizren
                                                                   Scutari

                                            Bar                       Shkodr
 42          Adriatic                                                                                                         Tetovo


                   Sea                         Ulcinj                                                                                          SKOPJE
                                                                                ALBANIA                                                                                                         Serbia and
                                                                                                                                                                                                Montenegro
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                    FYR MACEDONIA
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                            20                                      21                                             22

                                                                                                                                                                                                                JULY 2004

