Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB1332 
Operation Name 
Programmatic Development Policy Loan  
Region 
Europe and Central Asia 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (50%); Banking (30%); General 
finance sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P089116 
Borrower(s) 
Serbia and Montenegro 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
April 1, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
June 6, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 15, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Since the beginning of the transition process to democracy and market economy under difficult 
political, economic, and social conditions, Government of Serbia has taken substantial steps in 
improving macroeconomic stability and making good progress on structural reforms with 
substantial donor support yielding positive economic growth.  
 
Despite these achievements, the unemployment in Serbia continued to increase as a result of 
ongoing privatization and restructuring efforts; inflationary pressures have escalated as 
electricity tariffs, excise taxes, and oil prices were raised; and local currency depreciated against 
both Euro and US dollar.  
 
The Government뭩 reform program can be summarized in the three broad medium-term goals 
which are outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy for FY05-07: (i) creating a smaller, more 
sustainable, more efficient public sector; (ii) creating a larger, more dynamic private sector; and 
(iii) reducing poverty levels, and improving social protection and access to public services. 
 
The Government of Serbia is committed to carrying out the envisaged fiscal, financial and 
private sector reforms, initially launched within the framework of previous World Bank 
operations, including the two prior private and financial sector adjustment credits (PFSAC-I and 
PFSAC-II) and the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC). While substantial progress has already 
been achieved under these prior operations, further fiscal adjustment and renewed efforts on 
structural reforms are necessary to bolster macroeconomic stability and cement the foundation 
for sustainable growth. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
This is the first operation in a series of programmatic development policy lending operations for 
SAM as outlined in the FY05-07 Country Assistance Strategy. The objectives of PDPL-1 are 
consistent with the objectives and expected outcomes under Goal 2 targeted during this CAS 
Page  2
period. More specifically, these objectives include: (i) continued progress on restructuring and 
privatization of real and financial sector assets; (ii) restructuring and resolution of large loss-
making state- and socially-owned enterprises; (iii) improved access to finance, particularly for 
the small and medium enterprise sector; (iv) energy sector restructuring; and (v) private 
participation in infrastructure, in particular strengthening the legal and institutional framework of 
the mining sector, which has a potential to contribute to significant foreign direct investments in 
Serbia.  
 
The objective of the PDPL-1 is to support adoption of measures in two broad areas: (i) 
strengthening the fiscal discipline in enterprise, energy and transport sectors and attracting FDI; 
and (ii) building a more efficient and stable financial sector. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The program objectives will be achieved through reforms supported by two overarching pillars:   
 
Pillar 1: Strengthening fiscal discipline 

Reduction of Ministry of Economy뭩 subsidy program and strengthening the Transition 
Fund mechanisms for displaced workers;  

Privatization, restructuring and bankruptcy of socially-owned enterprises; 

Strengthening the legal framework for mining concessions 

Putting in place the restructuring of Serbia뭩 national electric power utility; and 

Beginning to rationalize the railway sector in accord with a time-bound plan. 
 
Pillar 2: Building a more efficient and stable financial sector 

Privatization of state-owned banks and divestment of financial assets;  

Strengthening the insurance sector regulation and resolution regime; 

Adoption by the National Bank of Serbia of the second phase of the Supervisory 
Development Plan to address, 
inter alia
,
banking sector supervision, regulation and 
resolutions. 

Improving access to finance through adoption of a mortgage law. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The project will not have any adverse environmental impact. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower/Recipient 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
14 
International Development Association 
41 
 Total 
55 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Michael Edwards 
Title:   Task Team Leader, Principal Financial Adv. 
Page  3
Tel:  
(202) 473-5370 
Fax:  
(202) 522-3687 
Email:  
medwards1@worldbank.org
Contact: Itzhak Goldberg 
Title:   Task Team Co-Leader, Lead Specialist 
Tel:  
(202) 473-6289 
Fax:  
(202) 522-3687 
Email:  
igoldberg@worldbank.org
