                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank


                                                   Report No: ICR0000871




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                  (IDA-41310)




                                  ON A CREDIT

   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 38 MILLION (US$ 55 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF SERBIA

                                     FOR A

FIRST PROGRAMMATIC PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                    CREDIT




                                  June 26, 2008




ECSPF
South East Europe Country Unit (ECCU4)
Europe Central Asia

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective June 26, 2008)

                  Currency Unit = Serbian Dinar RSD
                            1.00 = US$ 0.02
                           US$ 1.00 = 51.39

                            FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 ­ December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BRA      Bank Rehabilitation Agency
BSA      Bankruptcy Supervision Agency
BSD      Banking Supervision Department
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
DDO      Deferred Drawdown Option
DFID     Department For International Development
DIA      Deposit Insurance Agency
DIS      Deposit Insurance Scheme
DPL      Development Programmatic Lending
EAR      European Agency for Reconstruction
EPS      Electric power industry of Serbia
ESW      Economic and Sector Work
EU       European Union
FDI      Foreign Direct Investment
FSAP     Financial Sector Assessment Program
FSN      Financial Sector Note
GoS      Government of the Republic of Serbia
ICA      Investment Climate Assessment
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
MOFE     Ministry of Finance and Economy
MOFP     Ministry of Economy and Privatization of the Republic of Serbia
NBS      National Bank of Serbia
NIP      National Investment Plan
PA       Privatization Agency
PFDPL    Private and Financial Development Policy Loan
PFSAC    Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
PPFDPC   Private and Financial Development Policy Credit
PPIAF    Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSAL     Private Sector Adjustment Loan
PSN      Private Sector Note
ROS      Republic of Serbia
SAC      Structural Adjustment Credit
SDP      Supervisory Development Plan

SOB      State-owned Bank
SOE      State-Owned-Enterprises
SPA      Sale and Purchase Agreement
MTPL     Motor Third Party Liability
USAID    United States Agency for International Development




                    Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                  Country Director: Jane Armitage
                   Sector Manager: Fernando Montes-Negret
                Task Team Leader: Irina Astrakhan
                  ICR Team Leader Irina Astrakhan

                                               SERBIA

       First Programmatic Private and Financial Development Policy Credit
                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
2.1 Program Performance ............................................................................................... 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 7
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................ 18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 22
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 23
Annex 2. Policy Matrix................................................................................................. 24
Annex 3. Results Indicators.......................................................................................... 28
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 30
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 31
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 35
MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Programmatic Private
                                                                     and Financial
Country:               Serbia                  Program Name:         Development Policy
                                                                     Credit (PPFDPC-1)
                                                                     (Serbia)
Program ID:            P089116                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-41310
ICR Date:              06/27/2008              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:    DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                     SERBIA
Original Total
                       XDR 38.0M               Disbursed Amount:     XDR 38.0M
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies:
Privatization Agency of the Republic of Serbia
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/08/2005     Effectiveness:       12/23/2005        12/23/2005
Appraisal:             09/12/2005    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/06/2005    Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:             03/31/2006        03/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:            Satisfactory      Government:                 Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory      Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:            Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:                 Satisfactory      Performance:                Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators            (if any)                Rating:

Potential Problem
                                                 Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                         None
                                                 (QEA):
(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any                           Quality of
                           No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General finance sector                                            44                 44
General industry and trade sector                                 44                 44
Mining and other extractive                                        4                  4
Power                                                              4                  4
Railways                                                           4                  4


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Legal institutions for a market economy                         Secondary         Secondary
Other financial and private sector development                  Secondary          Primary
Regulation and competition policy                                Primary          Secondary
Standards and financial reporting                               Secondary         Secondary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization            Primary          Secondary


E. Bank Staff
       Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                       Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Lalit Raina                        Gerardo M. Corrochano
Program Team Leader:       Irina Astrakhan                    Michael Edwards
ICR Team Leader:           Irina Astrakhan
ICR Primary Author:        Hiran Herat




                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of PPDPC-1 is to support Government of Serbia#s (Government or GoS)
actions in two broad areas: (i) strengthening the fiscal discipline in enterprise, energy and
transport sectors, and attracting foreign direct investment (FDI); and (ii) building a more
efficient and stable financial sector and improving the investment access to finance.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally      Actual Value

    Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
                                               approval          Target      Completion or
                                              documents)         Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Reduction of MOE subsidy program to socially-owned enterprises as reflected
                 in the state budget
Value
(quantitative or CSD 5 billion            CSD 3.85 billion N/A             CSD 3.85 billion
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004               12/31/2005          12/31/2005   12/31/2005
Comments         Objective fully met. In the following years MOE subsssidy continued to
(incl. %         decrease in the budget allocations to CSD 3.22 billon in 2007 and CSD 3.09
achievement)     billion in 2008
Indicator 2 :    Private sector share in employment
Value
(quantitative or 54%                      56%                 N/A          58%
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004               12/31/2005          12/31/2005   12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %         By early 2008 the share of private sector in employment reached 61%

achievement)     (estimate)

Indicator 3 :    Private sector share in GDP
Value
(quantitative or 50%                      52%                 N/A          55%
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004               12/31/2005          12/31/2005   12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %         Target fully met. By end 2007 private share in GDP exceeded 55% (estimate)
achievement)
Indicator 4 :    Budget support to railway sector considerably reduced (as % of GDP)
Value
(quantitative or N/A                      1%                  N/A          1%
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004               12/31/2005          12/31/2005   12/31/2005


                                               iii

Comments
(incl. %         Target fully met, by end 2007 budget support was further reduced to 0.5% of

achievement)     GDP

Indicator 5 :    The government ownership stake in the banking sector reduced
Value
(quantitative or 35%                      25%                 N/A            23.9%
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004                12/31/2005         12/31/2005     12/31/2005
Comments         The target fully met. In the following years the government continued
(incl. %         successful reforms in the banking sector, the state ownership stake in the
achievement)     banking sector was further reduced to 14.8% by end 2006.
Indicator 6 :    The government ownership stake in the insurance sector reduced
Value
(quantitative or 74.2%                     70%                N/A            67.62%
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004                12/31/2005         12/30/2005     12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %         The government ownership stake in the insurance sector was further reduced to

achievement)     30.8% by end 2007



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised       Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :    The Privatization Agency offered for sale not less than 18 SOEs and sold at
                 least 9 of them through the tender program
Value
(quantitative or 0                        Offered for sale    N/A            Offered for sale 23,

Qualitative)                              18, sold 9                         sold 9

Date achieved    12/31/2004                12/31/2005         12/30/2005     12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %         Target fully met, 50 additional enterprises sold through tenders by February

achievement)     2008

Indicator 2 :    The Privatization Agency offered for sale through auctions not less than 180
                 SOEs and sold at least 40% of them
Value                                     Offered for sale                   Offered for sale
(quantitative or 0                        180, sold at least N/A             183, sold 131
Qualitative)                              40%                                (71.5%)
Date achieved    12/31/2004                12/31/2005         12/30/2005     12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %         The target was outperformed by 82%. Additional 572 enterprises were sold

achievement)     through auctions by February 2008

                 The Privatization Agency offered for sale not less than 8 SOEs from the list of
Indicator 3 :    enterprises undergoing restructuring, using all applicable methods, and sold at
                 least 3 of them



                                               iv

Value
(quantitative or 0                        3                   N/A            4
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004               12/31/2005          12/31/2005     12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %         The target was outperformed by 33%. Additional 23 enterprises from

achievement)     restructuring list were sold by February 2008

Indicator 4 :    Strengthened Transition Fund mechanism for redundancy payments of
                 employees of socially owned enterprises (allocation in CSD)
Value
(quantitative or 0                        CSD 4.5 billion     N/A            CSD 4.5 billion
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004               12/31/2005          12/31/2005     12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %         Target fully met, budget allocation for 2006 increased to CSD 6.5 billion, for

achievement)     2007 - to CSD 9.95 billion

Indicator 5 :    Regulatory framework for mining improved through submission of
                 amendments to the Law on Mining to the Parliament

Value                                     Amendments to                      Amendments to the

(quantitative or Inadequate legal         the Law on MiningN/A               Law on Mining

Qualitative)     framework for mining submitted to the                       submitted to the
                                          Parliament                         Parliament
Date achieved    12/31/2004               12/31/2005          12/31/2005     12/31/2005
Comments         Target fully met. Later on the Law was adopted and implementation
(incl. %         regulations were put into place, which improved regulatory framework and
achievement)     facilitating granting exploratory concessions to international mining companies

Indicator 6 :    Zeleznice Srbije (ZS) core staff reduced by 7.2%, services withdrawn from
                 7.5% of the network
                                           1,900 (7.2%) of                   1,900 (7.2%) of
Value            26,212 core staff,       core staff reduced,                core staff reduced,
(quantitative or 0 withdrawal from        services            N/A            services withdrawn
Qualitative)     passenger services       withdrawn from
                                          260 km (7.5% of                    from 260 km (7.5%

                                          networks)                          of networks)

Date achieved    12/31/2004               12/31/2005          12/31/2005     12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %         By end 2007 core staff of ZS was further reduced to 19,400 employees, ZS

achievement)     withdrew its passenger services from additional 218 km (6.3%)

Indicator 7 :    The Agency for Deposit Insurance (DIA) offered for sale a majority of
                 Vojvodjanska Banka shares
Value                                     Majority of shares
(quantitative or 0                        (>50%) offered for N/A             99.43% of shares

Qualitative)                              sale                               sold

Date achieved    12/31/2005               12/31/2005          12/31/2005     12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %         The DIA successfully continues privatization of remaining state shares in the

achievement)     banking sector

Indicator 8 :    The DIA initiates privatization of state shares in two majority state owned



                                                v

                 banks
                                            The DIA appoints                   State shares in 4
                                           financial adviser                   majority owned
Value                                      for Credy banka    Sale launched          sold:
(quantitative or 0                         and agrees on      for at least two banks
                                                                               Jubanka,
Qualitative)                               resolution strategymajority         Continental,
                                           for Privredna      owned banks      Novosadska, and
                                           Banka Pancevo                       Niska
Date achieved    12/31/2004                12/31/2005         12/31/2005       12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %         The target fully met. While the attempts to sell initially proposed banks failed

achievement)     after being initiated, other four banks with majority state share were sold.

Indicator 9 :    Insurance sector regulatory framework strengthened by enactment of
                 amendments to the Insurance Law
Value            Inadequate regulatory     Amendments to                       Amendments to the
(quantitative or framework for             the Insurance Law N/A               Insurance Law
Qualitative)     insurance sector          enacted                             enacted
Date achieved    12/31/2004                12/31/2005         12/31/2005       12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %         Target fully met.
achievement)

Indicator 10 :   Regulatory framework for mortgage finance strengthened by submitting to
                 Parliament draft Law on Mortgage

Value            Inadequate regulatory     Draft Law on                        The Mortgage Law
(quantitative or framework for             Mortgage           N/A              adopted by
Qualitative)     mortgage finance          submitted to
                                           Parliament                          Parliament

Date achieved    12/31/2004                12/31/2005         12/31/2005       12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %         The target was outperformed as the draft Law was not only submitted, but

achievement)     adopted.



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                          IP                 Disbursements
                                                                                (USD millions)



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                vi

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The proposed Programmatic Private and Financial Development Policy Loan/Credit
(PPFDPC) was the first in a series of two programmatic Private and Financial
Development Policy Loans (PFDPLs) that were designed to support a multi-year program
of assistance to the Republic of Serbia to address key institution building and reform
challenges in private and financial sectors. The overall programmatic DPL program
aimed to support sustainable economic growth and employment creation in Serbia.
Currently, the World Bank is working on a successor operation - PFDPL with a Deferred
Drawdown Option (PPFDPL/DDO) - in the amount of $50 million equivalent, aimed at
building on the reform foundations set by PPFDPC. The preparation of this project
commenced in late 2005 (as a PPFDPL-2), but it experienced delays due to the political
developments in 2006-2007, including dissolution of Serbia and Montenegro, adoption of
the new Constitution, and Parliamentary elections. The preparation resumed in late 2007
after the new coalition government was formed, when reforms were invigorated, and the
Country Partnership Strategy for Serbia for FY08-FY11 was approved.

The Government of Serbia (GoS) was committed to carrying out the envisaged fiscal,
financial and private sector related legal reforms, initially launched within the framework
of previous Bank supported operations, including the two prior private and financial
sector adjustment credits (PFSAC-I and PFSAC-II) and the structural adjustment credits
(SAC and SAC-II). While substantial legal and structural reforms were completed under
these prior operations, further fiscal adjustment and renewed efforts on structural reforms,
such as divestiture of some of the large loss-making SOEs and overall strengthening of
the fiscal discipline in enterprise, energy and transport sectors together with a more
efficient and stable financial sector supported by the PPFDPC-1, were necessary to
bolster macroeconomic stability and lay the foundation for sustainable growth.

The lessons of experience have shown that fiscal discipline promoted restructuring of
socially owned enterprises because hardening the budget constraint persuaded all parties -
unions, workers, managers - that the existing situation was unsustainable. The GoS
continued to provide substantial financial support to public, state-owned and socially-
owned companies. The 2005 budget allocated a total of CSD 32 billion to subsidies for
non-financial public corporations, representing 7 percent of the total budget expenditure.
Major recipients of subsidies included enterprises in the agricultural sector (CSD 11
billion), the railway (CSD 8.5 billion), socially-owned enterprises (CSD 5 billion), and
public media (CSD 2.8 billion). In addition to these direct subsidies, companies received
a variety of indirect subsidies through un-enforced arrears on utility charges, social
contributions, taxes and credits from state-owned banks. The GoS recognized that
continued subsidization was unsustainable and that a reallocation of funds from direct
subsidies, financing wages and other working capital was essential to finance severance
payments, which was expected to help accelerate the restructuring efforts.




                                              1

The Government's on-going commitment to the ambitious program for privatizing and
restructuring socially-owned enterprises was the sine qua non condition for sustainable
growth. Substantial progress had been achieved though auction and tender privatization.
Yet, an acceleration of the restructuring of large SOEs was an important challenge.
Among the prerequisites to achieving such acceleration were the amendments to the
Privatization Law, prescribing new rules for restructuring of debt to state creditors.
Furthermore, the implementation of the new Bankruptcy Law was essential to move
restructuring ahead. Building the capacity of the Privatization Agency to act as
bankruptcy administrator of insolvent state- and socially-owned enterprises was an
important priority.

Attracting FDI was another priority on GoS' agenda. Most of Serbia's FDI since 2001
occurred through privatization of SOEs. An increasing interest by foreign investors in
Serbia's mineral resources was expected to bring much needed "greenfield" FDI. To
further realize the sector's potential, the GoS planned to undertake reforms to transition
the state from a role of owner-operator of mineral assets to that of regulator and sector
administrator. In particular, the Government had to: (i) ensure that investors were fairly
treated and the envisaged royalties framework was able to attract private investment by
adhering to international standards regarding competitive taxation, banking, and customs;
and (ii) build the capacity to serve within a regulatory role in accordance with the mining
sector's specific requirements.

Acting through the Deposit Insurance Agency (DIA), formerly Bank Rehabilitation
Agency (BRA), the GoS as shareholder simultaneously began to strengthen its
monitoring of banks and the process of merging and divesting its bank holdings. The first
majority state-owned bank was sold in January 2005, and three more followed by the end
of 2005. The DIA's offering of financial assets (loans and private enterprise equity
stakes) had been similarly delayed, though the first such asset offering was subsequently
launched.

In parallel, the NBS initiated a series of steps starting in 2001 to begin to modernize the
regulatory and supervisory framework for banks and the insurance sector. Despite
progress in aligning banking sector regulations with best practice, the compliance with
the Basel Core Principles was still highly unsatisfactory.

Access to medium and longer term finance and high overall cost of financing presented a
major challenge for the development of the financial and enterprise sectors in Serbia. In
an effort to address these recognized deficiencies, the GoS was preparing a draft
Mortgage Law, which was expected to improve existing arrangements for valuing
collateral and enforcing mortgages and overall aid in the further development of
residential mortgage finance.


1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

On October 31, 2005, the Bank Board approved the Programmatic Private and Financial
Development Policy Loan, which became effective on December 23, 2005. The objective


                                              2

of PPFDPC-1 was to support Government of Serbia's (Government or GoS) actions in
two broad areas: (i) strengthening the fiscal discipline in enterprise, energy and transport
sectors, and attracting foreign direct investment (FDI); and (ii) building a more efficient
stable financial sector and improving access to finance. The objectives were to be
achieved through reforms carried out by the government which were summarized in two
pillars: (i) strengthening the fiscal discipline and (ii) building a more efficient and stable
financial sector.

The key indicators of the achievement of the development objectives was the reduction of
subsidies so as to facilitate staff redundancies, thereby permitting the restructuring and/or
sale of effected state enterprises and public utilities, and minimizing market distortions
created by such enterprises. Additionally, the program outcomes were to reduce the
government's holdings in the banking and insurance sectors and of financial assets,
strengthen the respective regulatory and supervisory regimes, increase access to real
estate finance and overall, further improve the investment climate.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

The PDO and the key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program

Under the PPFDPC, the GoS had successfully completed core policy actions in: (i)
strengthening the fiscal discipline in enterprise, energy and transport sectors, and
attracting foreign investment; and (ii) building a more efficient and stable financial sector
and improving access to finance. To strengthen the fiscal discipline, the GoS reduced
subsidies and continued with divestiture of SOEs through privatization and bankruptcy;
and pursued reforms in the energy and railway sector. The GoS activities aimed at
building more efficient and stable financial sector focused on continued privatization and
divestment of state-owned banks and financial assets; strengthening insurance sector
regulation and resolution regime; and improving access to finance through the adoption
of a mortgage law.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas

Policy Area was not revised

1.6 Other significant changes

None

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes




                                               3

2.1 Program Performance

                                       Tranche 1 ­ Pre Board Actions
                                                                                          Status
 1. The Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to the Parliament of         Conditions met
 the Republic of Serbia to decrease the direct subsidies to socially-owned
 enterprises undergoing restructuring from CSD 5 billion, allocated for such
 purposes in the 2005 State Budget, to CSD 3.85 billion in the 2006 State Budget.
 2. The Government of the Republic of Serbia has agreed to make available CSD          Conditions met
 4.5 billion from the Transition Fund for severance payments to employees of
 socially owned enterprises, such enterprises having been set forth in the list
 agreed upon by the Bank.
 3. Starting December 1,2004: (i) the Privatization Agency of the Republic of          Conditions met
 Serbia has offered for sale no less than eighteen socially-owned enterprises and
 sold at least nine socially-owned enterprises through its tender program; (ii) PA
 has offered for sale through auctions no less than 180 socially-owned
 enterprises, and sold at least 40 percent of such socially-owned enterprises; (iii)
 PA has offered for sale no less than eight socially-owned enterprises, or
 significant parts thereof (i.e., representing no less than 50 percent of the total
 assets), from the list of enterprises undergoing restructuring, using, as
 applicable, tenders, auctions and asset sales procedures, and sold at least three
 socially-owned enterprises set forth in the restructuring list; and (iv) Republic of
 Serbia-owned or controlled creditors have requested the courts to initiate
 bankruptcy proceedings for at least 6 large SOEs set forth in the restructuring
 list.
 4. The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the Parliament of        Conditions met
 the Republic of Serbia amendments to the Law on Mining, satisfactory to the
 Bank, incorporating a new royalties framework.
 5. The Government of the Republic of Serbia has launched an international             Conditions met
 tender to engage a Financial Adviser for Elektroprivreda Srbije, in accordance
 with terms of references and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
 6. Staff engaged in core ZS activities by 1,900, or 7.2 percent of total ZS core      Conditions met
 staff of 26,212 employed as of January 1, 2005, and ZS and GoS have adopted
 the 2005 Business Plan. ZS to begin the withdrawal of all passenger services
 from 7.5 percent of the network (260km), convert them to manipulation lines in
 2005 and finalize plans for similar activities through 2009 in the 2005-2009
 Strategic Plan. Begin implementation of the approved 2005 business plan,
 satisfactory to the Bank, pending receipt and acceptance by the MOF and MVI
 of the new 2005-2009 strategic plan.
 7. The Agency for Deposit Insurance (DIA) of the RoS has offered for sale, on         Conditions met
 behalf of the GoS, a majority (i.e. more than 50%) of Vojvodjanska banka
 shares. DIA has appointed Financial Advisor for Credy Banka and has agreed to
 recommend resolution strategy for Privredna Banka Pancevo to the DIA
 Management Board. Binding bids for NPL sale received and recommended to
 the Commercial Court of Belgrade for approval.
 8. Amendments to the Insurance Law have been enacted and are satisfactory to          Conditions met
 the Bank. The NBS examination report for DDOR has been issued and a tender
 launched for the appointment of a Financial Adviser. DIA has launched a tender
 for an independent diagnostic audit and restructuring plan for Dunav insurance
 company. Strategy for MTPL reform has been agreed and a draft law submitted
 to the Parliament.
 9. The Supervisory Review Committee of the NBS Banking Supervision                    Conditions met
 Department (BSD) and the Governor of the NBS have adopted the second phase
 of the Supervisory Development Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, and the NBS
 BSD has continued its implementation. Implementation has been demonstrated
 by: (i) revised draft of a comprehensive SOP, satisfactory to the Bank, (ii) risk


                                                        4

  matrices and supervisory strategies for banks examinations completed as of
  September 30, 2005; (iii) a time-bound corrective action plan to address Basel
  Core Principles weaknesses identified (iv) for those banks whose deadline for
  implementation of corrective action measures has expired as of September 20,
  2005, the NBS is to verify that provisions have been taken by the deadline
  specified in the corrective action plan and are reflected on subject banks'
  financial and regulatory reports; (v) NBS has issued a new regulation, effective
  January 1, 2006, that requires the examined banks to book NBS directed
  provisions no later than the end of the quarter of the NBS' issuance of the
  corrective measures and make necessary changes in regulatory reports.
  10. The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the Parliament      Condition met
  of the Republic of Serbia a draft Law On Mortgage, satisfactory to the Bank.

The ICR does not attempt to evaluate the whole programmatic loan series. Rather, it is
aimed at evaluating a single Tranche Credit, which was approved on October 31, 2005
for an amount of US$ 55 million and became effective on December 23, 2005.
Achievements under the Loan are detailed in Annex 2.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

The preparation of PFDPL was delayed in 2004 due to increased political uncertainty
around the presidential and parliamentary elections. At the macro level, the reforms
supported by the PPFDPC could have been threatened by ongoing social and political
instability in Serbia, where opposition could have weakened the Government's resolve to
pursue the reform program. The following policy areas were among the riskiest in terms
of exacerbating political and social instability: reduction of longstanding MOE subsidies
and reforms in the energy, banking, insurance and real sectors. The reform program was
monitored closely and the GoS and the Bank consulted on whether further actions were
required to maintain the economy on a sustainable path. Furthermore, in an effort to
mitigate the risk, a gradual approach to the reforms' phase was adopted throughout the
DPC program. The social risks of the PPFDPC program was also mitigated through the
GoS' pre-emptive reforms in addressing the social sector issues, best illustrated with the
establishment of the Transition Fund which has successfully reduced the social shock of
privatization by offering severance payments to redundant workers, thus facilitating
labour shedding before the privatization and increasing the chances for successful
transactions.
It was recognized that a multi-sector approach of the PPFDPC was rather ambitious and
could have been perceived as complex, thus risking timely completion of reforms. The
cumulative and irreversible effects of the envisaged reforms validated the approach taken
through the DPC program. Risks related to the inter-connectedness of the proposed
reforms and the large number of governmental institutions involved in the
implementation was mostly mitigated through the MOF, which assumed the role of the
overall DPC program coordinator.

The capacity of some public sector institutions to implement an ambitious reform agenda,
while much improved over the past few years, remained relatively weak. The execution
risks were mitigated through the utilization of continued technical assistance facilities
and active coordination of bi-lateral donor funded technical assistance. In particular, this
included Bank managed European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR) Grant for


                                                       5

Privatization, Restructuring and Bankruptcy of State-Owned Enterprises and PHRD
grants for preparation of PPFDPC-1 and the follow up PFDPL/DDO projects.
Furthermore, support from ongoing and proposed Bank projects in social protection,
public sector administration reform, and transport sector further served to mitigate risks.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The MOF was responsible for the overall implementation of the proposed operation and
for reporting process and coordinating actions among other concerned ministries and
agencies. The Bank monitored actions and reviewed progress of the implementation of
the operation, as well as the subsequent actions of the GoS program by using the short
term and overall program outcomes outlined in the Policy Matrix. At the same time, the
overall status of the GoS program was monitored during follow up missions to determine
whether the specific conditions of the operation had changed. In addition, follow up work
on the program allowed the Bank to continue the policy dialogue with the institutions
involved in the implementation of the program of reform, but also ensured synergies with
other donors to avoid conflicting advice to the Government in the policy and technical
areas involved in the reforms.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

Based on the success of PPFPDC, the GoS has requested the Bank to support subsequent
operations in the form of Programmatic Private and Financial Development Policy Loans
(PPFDPL). It should be noted that the preparation for the follow-up operations started in
late 2005, but their delivery had to be postponed due to political instability. However,
this work resumed in 2007, once the new government had been established. These
operations can be expected to build on the success from the PPFDPC.              The First
Programmatic and Financial Development Policy Loan with Deferred Drawdown Option
(PFDPL/DDO) is designed to support the government in advancing its financial, private
sector and business environment related reforms (it was pre-appraised in 2007, however,
the Board date has been postponed to Fall 2008 due to the most recent Parliamentary
elections which took place in May 2008). This PFDPL series is expected to build on the
reforms initiated under the earlier Bank-supported operations, such as the three prior
private and financial sector adjustment credits (PFSAC-I, PFSAC-II and PPFDPC-I) and
the structural adjustment credits (SAC and SAC-II). It is envisioned to be complemented
by another DPL operation aimed at supporting Serbia's National Investment Plan (NIP)
with the overall objective to help the Government address systemic public financial
management issues. The policy actions set in the PFDPL program will largely conclude
the era of fast-track transition reforms in private and financial sectors of the Serbian
economy. The development policy lending is complemented by investment lending in the
form of regional development projects - Bor Regional Development Project and Resavica
Restructuring and Local Economic Development Project (the later under preparation) -
aimed at ameliorating past environmental liabilities and facilitating job creation in the
regions affected by privatization of large loss-making enterprises: Copper Mining and
Smelting Complex Bor and Enterprise for Underground Coal Exploitation Resavica.




                                            6

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objective of the PPFDPC was to support two policy areas: (i) Strengthen financial
discipline by enhancing hard budget constraints in the enterprise sector through
privatization or bankruptcy, of large SOEs, and the restructuring of public utilities; and
(ii) Build a more efficient and stable financial sector through continuing the divestment
of state ownership in the banking and insurance sectors, enhancing prudential supervision
of banking and encouraging development of the capital markets. The PPFDPC is fully in
line with the goals of the World Bank Group's assistance to the Government of Serbia
(Government or GoS), as outlined in the recently adopted FY08-11 Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS), one of the key areas of which includes encouraging dynamic private
sector led growth to ensure incomes convergence with European levels.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

The achievement of the objectives and outputs is considered satisfactory. The PPFDPC
achieved its main objective of structural reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors,
thereby fostering private sector-led growth and job creation. The operation contributed
significantly to the country's overall economic stabilization program, by enhancing hard
budget constraints in the enterprise sector through privatization or bankruptcy of large
SOEs and building a more efficient and stable financial sector through continuing with
the divestment of state ownership in the banking and insurance sectors, enhancing
prudential supervision of banking, and encouraging development of capital markets.

PILLAR I - Strengthening Fiscal Discipline

The achievement of the objectives and outputs under Pillar I is considered Satisfactory.
The CAS at that time identified the strengthening of fiscal discipline as a priority for
Serbia's sustainable economic development. The First PFDPC was to improve fiscal
discipline through: (i) phasing out of direct and containing indirect subsidies; (ii)
accelerating privatization of socially-owned enterprises (iii) effective implementation of
bankruptcy legislation; (iv) developing a more robust framework for mining concessions;
and (v) continuation of the unbundling and restructuring (workforce and debts) of public
utilities.

Policy Area 1.1: Reduction of MOE Subsidy Program and Strengthening of the TF
Mechanism

The major recipients of the MOE direct subsidies were among some 80 large socially-
owned enterprises that were slated for pre-privatization restructuring by the GoS. The 15
largest subsidy recipients among the companies being restructured between 2001-2004,
represented 57 percent of the total subsidy program. Many SOEs survived only because
they received new money from the state or state-influenced sources. In 2003, for example,
52 of the largest SOEs posted almost Euro 200 million in aggregate (mostly cash-flow)
losses, and their debt increased by more than Euro 150 million.


                                            7

The Government actions were focused on two main areas: (i) reduction in the MOE direct
subsidies, and (ii) strengthening of a redundancy payment mechanism to compensate
surplus labor through the TF, a budgetary item, which received a CSD 5 billion budget
allocation in 2005.     Between, 2001-2004, the Government reduced the number of
employees in the 15 biggest subsidy-receiving socially-owned enterprises from roughly
90,000 employees to 54,000, a total (net) reduction of 36,000. While direct subsidies
represented a recurrent burden on the budget, severance payments to redundant
employees were a one-time payment which allowed companies to decrease their labor
force and wage bill, thus making the reduction in direct subsidies more sustainable.

The Bank also sought to eliminate soft budget constraints by assisting the GoS with
restructuring of EPS and NIS in preparation for their eventual privatization. In parallel,
the MOE, in cooperation with the tax authorities and main utilities, established a
monitoring system for the large SOEs in order to ensure the full enforcement of hard
budget constraints and to prevent further accumulation of arrears.

Main achievements. In order to speedup restructuring, the MOE committed to decreasing
the direct subsidies to socially-owned enterprises in restructuring from CSD 5 billion in
2005 budget to CSD 3.85 billion in 2006. Secondly, to encourage restructuring and to
mitigate social implications of the lay-offs resulting from the decreasing subsidies, the
transition fund budgetary allocation in the amount of CSD 6.5 billion (up from the
projected tranche release amount of 4.5 billion) was made available in the 2006 budget
and CSD 9.95 billion in the 2007 budget. To ensure that severance pay would be used for
employees in companies that were most likely to be privatized, a list of such companies
for 2006 (including the number of redundancies per company) was agreed upon with the
Bank.

It is important to note that the government has continued with gradual reduction of direct
subsidies beyond the PPFDPC-1. This policy has resulted in a further reduction of direct
MOE subsidy to the SOE, which has steadily decreased to CSD 3.22 billion and CSD
3.09 billion in 2007 and 2008 budgets respectively.

Policy Area 1.2: Privatization, Restructuring, and Bankruptcy of Socially-Owned
Enterprises

In the period 2001-2004, the PA, assisted by the Bank and other donors, achieved
significant progress in implementing the Government's privatization program. By the end
of 2004, 1,130 enterprises were sold (884 in auctions, 35 large enterprises through
tenders to strategic investors ­ mostly foreign, and 208 through capital markets) realizing
revenues of EUR 1.35 billion, with investment and social program commitments reaching
nearly EUR 750 EUR 280 million respectively. Apart from continued existence of soft
budget constraints, the lack of cooperation among state creditors and the absence of
effective insolvency regime had been identified as two key obstacles to the resolution of
companies in restructuring. At the same time, the credible exit mechanism for un-saleable
SOEs had long been absent in Serbia due to historical weakness of the bankruptcy regime,
with court procedure lasting for seven years on average.



                                             8

After enactment of the new Bankruptcy Law by the Parliament of Serbia in July 2004, the
implementation of one of the most important reform regulations started on February 1,
2005. The Law envisaged several bodies in charge of carrying out of the bankruptcy
procedure. With the help of technical assistance provided by the Bank and other donors,
significant progress was made to create the two crucial institutional pillars of new
insolvency regime: (i) the Bankruptcy Supervision Agency (BSA) to license and oversee
bankruptcy trustees; and (ii) the Bankruptcy Unit within the PA to act as the bankruptcy
administrator of insolvent socially-and state owned enterprises. Another novelty to the
privatization process was introduced with the amendments to Privatization Law in 2005
allowing conditional debt-write off for companies in restructuring, resulting in a
resolution of a significant number of such enterprises, which were by default very large
and troubled entities.

Main Achievements. In the period from December 1, 2004 through September 30, 2005
the PA had not only successfully achieved but also outperformed the set objectives, by
offering for sale 23 (target 18) socially owned enterprises through tender procedure and
selling 9 of them,, and offering 183 and selling 131 (target 72) through auctions,
achieving a success rate of 71.5% in auctions, significantly exceeding the minimum
required success rate of 40%. These transactions have ensured revenues of nearly EUR
180 million, and almost EUR 84 million in investment commitments. Further, in addition
to achieving the set benchmarks for auctions and tenders, during the same period the PA
has also sold 119 enterprises through capital markets realizing almost EUR 117 million in
additional revenues. Finally, the conditions related to sales of companies from
restructuring center and bankruptcy were also successfully met. Four companies from the
restructuring center were sold in this period, while state controlled creditors have
requested the courts to initiate bankruptcy procedure for 6 companies from the
restructuring list.

The privatization, restructuring and bankruptcy of socially owned enterprises remain on
the reform agenda supported by the PFDPL/DDO, where the main targets in this area
have already been achieved. Namely, in the period immediately following the PPFDPC,
from October 2005 through February 2008, the Privatization Agency has sold additional
50 and 572 enterprises through tenders and auctions respectively, thus fully meeting the
successor operation's requirements.

Overall, over the past six years, the Privatization Agency (PA), assisted by the WB and
other donors, has achieved significant progress in implementing the Government's
privatization program. Between 2002 and 1st quarter of 2008, a total of 1,557 small and
medium enterprises had been sold in auctions and 89 larger enterprises were sold through
tenders, many of them to strategic investors, mainly international ones. The total cash
proceeds from SOE privatization amounted to more than Euro 2.7 billion over this period
(excluding Mobtel); in addition, new owners came up with nearly Euro 1.2 billion worth
of investment commitments. The private sector share of employment reached 61% by end
2007.




                                             9

Policy Area 1.3: Concessions Framework for Mining Sector

Mining sector reforms needed to meet a broad objective of developing a set of practical
and implemental arrangements that was to assist Serbia in strengthening its legal and
institutional framework for increased private investment in the exploitation of mineral
ores. To address these issues the GoS had prepared amendments to the Law on Mining
and to the Law on Geological Exploration to improve clarity on several matters
including: (i) state ownership of mineral resources and authorization to assign mineral
rights / licenses to private parties; (ii) role of the state as a regulator within the sector; (iii)
administrative frameworks for mines cadastre, mines inspectorate, and other
authorizations; and (iv) compliance with mineral rights and laws including royalty,
surface fee, and other financial obligations.

To this end, the pending legislation at that time strengthened the fiscal performance of the
sector by adhering to international standards regarding competitive taxation, foreign
investment, and customs issues unique to mining, and established the framework for the
negotiation, assessment, and payment of royalties in a transparent manner. Success in the
implementation of these reforms would then be conditional upon sector governance,
enforcement of contracts and collection of royalties.

Main Achievements. In the Fall of 2005 the Government had submitted to the Parliament
the amendments, to the Law on Mining, satisfactory to the Association, incorporating a
new royalties framework. Regulations that define procedures for assessment of annual
mineral production, surface and filing fees, royalties and payment procedures, and
resolution of disputes and conflicts were put in place.

The amendments were adopted in the Spring of 2006, and ultimately these regulatory
reform measures have facilitated granting new concessions in Serbia to international
mining companies, and the process of privatizing two large mining complexes (RTB Bor
and Resavica) is currently underway. Further, in 2007 alone 41 exploration licenses were
renewed and 63 new were granted, confirming the positive impact of the implemented
reforms.

The reforms have also continued under the proposed PFDPL/DDO program. The World
Bank's assistance to the Government in developing new regulatory tools has resulted in
initial drafting of the Mineral Policy, as well as the new regulatory framework for mining
(i.e. new Mining Law). These two documents are currently being reviewed and finalized,
and once adopted and implemented they are expected to further strengthen mining sector
governance and business environment in general.

Policy Area 1.4: EPS Restructuring

There had been much progress in recent years on energy sector reform, particularly as
regards the power tariff reform and development of an enabling framework to support
power industry commercialization. Further reform in these two areas was required in
order that power industry sustainability - defined as well functioning and providing


                                                10

affordable and competitively priced power - was achieved. Power tariffs were increased
from USD 0.9 cents/kWh in 2001 to around 4 cents/kWh from July 2004. Going forward,
it was important to ensure that power tariffs continued to provide adequate revenues for
cost recovery. One means for mitigating the extent of required tariff increases were
through commercialization of EPS (the national power company).

In addition, the GoS had agreed to establish a separate power transmission company. The
GoS recognizes that this was a first step, and that there were a number of measures
relating to restructuring that currently need to be addressed, both to support the
participation in the regional energy market, and to strengthen performance incentives
with a view to improving payments discipline and reducing costs. The GoS accepted that
private sector participation in the power sector could be potentially beneficial in the
medium term.

On EPS restructuring, the Bank concurred with the GoS on the need to appoint an advisor
to support the process. The Bank's opinion was that it would not be appropriate to move
quickly with the privatization at that time, given the need to build political support. In
addition, the required restructuring of EPS was expected to take up to several years to
implement. Based on the history of the Region, the time taken from the start of the
restructuring to closing of privatization in neighboring countries - Bulgaria, FYR
Macedonia, Romania - had been in excess of five years. In the context of the regional
energy market, Serbia was obliged to restructure but not to privatize EPS.

Main Achievements.          In mid-2005, the GoS had adopted a power tariff increase,
acceptable to the Bank, and in conjunction with the tariff increase, the GoS proposed how
debt service would be treated, ultimately contributing to EPS' operational efficiency.
Additionally, in 2005 the government had also established a regulatory agency for energy
Further, the GoS launched an international tender to engage a restructuring advisor for
EPS, in accordance with the terms of references and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
The tender ultimately failed, and EPS hired other international consultants whose
recommendations are yet unknown to the Bank.

The challenging reforms in the energy sector have also continued beyond PPFDPC-1, and
an independent, single-purpose power transmission company, was established in 2006.
The company recorded profits in 2006, but it went into red in 2007 due to revaluation of
assets and lower than expected tariffs. In 2007, the regulatory agency developed, and the
government approved, transparent rules for setting cost-recovery tariffs in 2007. While
electricity tariffs are still moderately trailing full cost-recovery levels, under the proposed
PFDPL/DDO, the Bank is assisting the government in developing a plan for gradual
annual tariff adjustments in order to reach cost-recovering tariffs for power and gas by
2010.




                                                11

Policy Area 1.5: Railway Sector

The railway sector component of the First PPFDPC was to focus on facilitating the
institutional changes necessary to reform the sector, encompassing labor retrenchment,
network rationalization and the divestiture of non-core activities. This component was to
build on the recent passage of the railway law, and a production of a new 5 year
restructuring plan for Zeleznice Srbije (ZS), to achieve an agreed reduction in the number
of core ZS staff, the attainment of the conversion of an agreed proportion of the network
to 'manipulation' status as a step on the path to closure, and the commencement of the
divestiture of non-core activities. As to railway line closures, ZS had committed to
withdraw services and convert 7.5 percent of the network to manipulation status
immediately, and convert a further 6.3 percent of the network by the end of 2005 if
service specific subsidy was not achieved.

As it regards the divesture of non-core activities, the management of ZS had commenced
the process of divesting all non-core activities, through the establishment of 14 wholly-
owned subsidiary companies, offering services as diverse as travel agency, housing,
import-export services to engineering consultancy. This process was expected to continue
by offering the separated businesses for sale to private investors in an open and
transparent process beginning in late 2005. The core of the proposed reform in the
railway sector encompassed the new Railway Law and associated decree on the
reorganization of ZTP as was, the former of which became effective on March 1, 2005. A
new railway entity, Zeleznice Srbije (ZS), was established, to which the operating assets
of ZTP were transferred. A Railway Directorate was formed to license infrastructure
managers and train operators.

Main Achievements. The following benchmarks were achieved under the Credit:

      (i)     A reduction in core ZS staff by 1900 or 7.2% from a cadre of 26,212 as of
              January 1, 2005, and ZS and GoS had adopted the 2005 Business Plan.
              Based on the 2006-2010 Business Plan a further reduction of staff has taken
              place, consistent with the end 2007 figure of 19,400.
      (ii)    ZS begin the withdrawal of all passenger services from 7.5 percent of the
              network (260km), and converted them to manipulation lines in 2005 and
              finalized plans for similar activities in the 2006-2010 Strategic Plan. The
              withdrawal of passenger services on 543 km of lines, some 14 percent of the
              network has been achieved to date.
      (iii)   ZS and GoS formally adopted the 2005 Business Plan, and the 2006-2010
              Strategic Plan.

In addition, the following were achieved: (i) the divestiture or closure of all non-core
activities, through the establishment of 14 subsidiary companies, offering services as
diverse as travel agency, health care, housing, import-export services, employment for
disabled persons, to an engineering consultancy selling services to clients.     Nine were
transferred to the government in 2005, and seven were passed subsequently to the
Privatization Agency. The remaining five are reported to have low commercial value ­


                                             12

and are to be transferred to other bodies or closed down; and (ii) the closure of passenger
booking facilities at over forty stations.

Reform has continued in the sector, assisted by support from the Public Private
Infrastructure Advisory Service (PPIAF), with the definition of a methodology for a track
access regime and a common network statement, and within the preparation of new
investment project (now scheduled for the approval of the World Bank Board in FY09).
Accounting separation of infrastructure and operations within ZS has been introduced,
with effect from January 1, 2006, the Railway Directorate, the regulator for the sector has
been operationally established, and a Public Service Obligation regime, for the
transparent estimation and transfer of operating subsidy for passenger services is being
prepared for introduction at the end of 2008, for the new timetable year.

PILLAR II - Building a More Efficient and Stable Financial Sector

The achievement of the objectives and outputs under Pillar II is considered Satisfactory.
Beginning in 2001 the authorities set out to deal with the critical condition of the Serbian
banks. Given the inability of the budget to re-capitalize the most seriously distressed
banks, and the likely negative franchise value of most such banks, some 25 insolvent
banks (representing nearly two-thirds of the assets of the banking system) were closed
between 2001 and 2003. Both the banking and the insurance sectors had witnessed
substantial consolidation in the past few years, as the number of banks in Serbia has been
reduced from 86 (2001) to 34 (end-April 2008) while the number of insurers has been
reduced from 43 to 21 (6 of which were greenfield licenses) in the same period. In
parallel, the authorities initiated a series of steps to modernize the regulatory framework
for banks and the insurance sector.

Serbia's banking sector, however, was not confined to the state-owned banks. More
specifically, the 2004 FSN analysis demonstrated that none of the local banks scored
unambiguously well on a mix of effectiveness, regulatory or loan-quality indicators. This
gave rise to the major concern that some of the larger local private banks (of which a
number were minority-owned by the government) were storing up future problems by
lending on unsustainable terms that would result in the future deterioration of asset
quality. A major credit risk was also foreseen by the foreign exchange clause on virtually
all CSD-denominated loans, which could have lead to a sharp deterioration in banks asset
quality in the event of a marked depreciation of the exchange rate.

Policy Area 2.1: Resolution of State-Owned Banks (SOB) and Divestment of Financial
Assets (Non-Performing Loans and Equities)

In the second semester of 2004 the government, (then) majority and minority shareholder
in 16 banks, had began the process of divesting its holdings in the sector through the DM.
The process of divestiture of the SOB holdings was well underway, suitably resourced
and managed. In January 2005 the first state-owned bank, Jubanka, was successfully sold
to a Greek Alpha Bank, while three more state-owned banks were also successfully
divested by the end of 2005 (Continental Bank to Slovenian NLB Bank, Novosadska



                                               13

Bank to Austrian Erste Bank, and Niska Bank to Hungarian OTP Bank).              The total
revenues from these 4 transactions in 2005 amounted to EUR 288.7 million.

After a rather protracted start, the GoS, acting through the DIA, started consolidating and
divesting its bank holdings. As well, utilizing a World Bank grant facility and
coordinated bi-lateral assistance from three countries, the DIA had substantially
expanded its capacity to monitor banks' performance and prepare banks for sale. The
agency and its financial advisors developed a Sale and Purchase Agreement (SPA)
contract complying with the Serbian law to use as a template for subsequent bank sales.
The progress recorded in early 2005 in organizing the first tenders for the divestment of
banks had been excellent. Equally, the DIA had taken numerous steps to further
strengthen its oversight and control of the remaining state-owned banks and organize its
first sale of financial assets.

Main Achievements. The bank financial asset divestment strategy supported under the
First PPFDPC included the following key elements: (a) The Agency for Deposit
Insurance (DIA) of the Republic of Serbia had offered for sale, on behalf of the
Government of the Republic of Serbia, a majority (i.e., more than 50 percent) of
Vojvodjanska banka shares (99.43% of shares have been sold); (b) DIA had appointed
Financial Adviser for Credy Banka and had agreed to recommend resolution strategy for
Privredna Banka Pancevo to the DIA Management Board; 4 majority state owned banks
were successfully privatized in 2005 (Jubanka, Continental, Novosadska, and Niska) and
(c) binding bids for NPL sale were received and recommended to the Commercial Court
of Belgrade for approval. The sale was completed in late 2005.

In the past several years the Government of Serbia (GoS) and the National Bank of
Serbia (NBS) have made significant progress through the resolution of a number of
insolvent banks and insurers, the divestment of most of its banking sector holdings and
strengthening the regulatory regime underlying the banking, insurance and more recently,
the securities sectors. Building on the achievements of the PPFDPC-1, the measures
under the PPFDPL envisage development and approval of the resolution Strategy for
banks and insurance companies with ROS ownership, as well as securing funding for
initial capitalization of Deposit Insurance Scheme (DIS). As a result, the government has
retained majority interest only in 5 banks and its share in the banking sector decreased to
23.9% at end 2005. The privatization reforms continued beyond 2005, and the
government holdings in the banking sector further declined to 14.8% at the end of 2006.
Finally, through implementation of the 2004 Insurance Law, the 2005 Banking Law and
Leasing Law and most recently through the 2006 Securities Act, Take-Over Act, and
Accounting and Revision Act, the financial sector is better regulated and less vulnerable.

Policy Area 2.2: Strengthening Insurance Sector Regulation and Resolution Regime

In recognition of the fact that the Serbian insurance regulatory and supervisory apparatus
was transitioned to the NBS in mid-2004 through passage of a new law, the insurance
sector was being re-established going forward within a more healthy governance
environment. The NBS as the new insurance supervisor, with its substantial experience in
the banking sector, had already taken vigorous actions to address the more egregious


                                             14

issues facing the industry through the closure of eighteen insurers. There were three
urgent issues that needed to be addressed in the insurance sector, the first two of which
emerged from the closure of a substantial number of insurers. These were (i) the
definition, management and handing of claims incurred by the closed insurers; (ii) motor
third party liability (MTPL) claims in particular; and (iii) the process of resolution of the
closed insurers; and the disposition and restructuring of the two state-owned insurance
companies.

The key short term issues required of the GoS involved setting the scene for the reforms
that would underpin the tranche release. One of these, the commencement of technical
assistance to develop a strategy and formulate law to put MTPL onto a sound long-term
footing, had commenced. The others related to sector restructuring and included the
commencement of a detailed on-site inspection of DDOR Novi Sad, one of the two large
state-owned insurers, production of audited accounts for the two state-owned insurers
using current accounting standards, and the submission of law amendments to the
Parliament to enable the DIA to commence liquidation for the 18 recently closed insurers.

Main Achievements. These included the following: (i) the amendments to the Insurance
Law was enacted, and deemed satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) the NBS examination report
for DDOR had been issued and a tender launched for the appointment of a Financial
Advisor; (iii) DIA had launched a tender for an independent diagnostic audit and
restructuring plan for Dunav insurance company; (iv) the strategy for MTPL reform had
been agreed but the submission to the parliament of the draft law was delayed. In
particular, the insurance sector reforms to be addressed under this pillar of the First
PPFDPC included: Specific Administration and Wind Up Procedures to be in place
through amendments to the insurance law and in accord with new Bankruptcy Law and
consistent with relevant EU Directives and international assessment standards Core
Principals.

Other achievements supported by the follow-up PFDPL/DDO operation have included
the successful privatization of DDOR to Italian Fondiaria at the end of 2007, and
progress with the implementation of Dunav's institutional development plan. These
actions reduced the government share in the insurance sector to 30.84% at the end of
2007. The work on drafting and adopting the new MTPL Law continues under the
PFDPL/DDO.

Policy Area 2.3: Second Phase of the Supervisory Development Plan (SDP)

Banking sector regulation and supervision had been one of the key areas targeted since
the inception of the Serbian reform program. Initial steps by the NBS to close 23 banks in
2001, including the 4 largest domestic banks at the time, started a process of banking
sector reform and restructuring. At the heart of this reform was the acknowledged need to
strengthen bank supervision processes, which had lost considerable ground in the prior
decade. At the initiative of the NBS and as a part of the previous World Bank PFSAC-I
and PFSAC-II programs, objectives for regulatory and supervisory reform were
established, in part, through the development of a Supervisory Development Plan (SDP).
A new, revised SDP was being finalized to address continuing needs and introduce


                                            15

further, risk based tools and processes. The rapidly growing large private banks and two
large and systemically important state-controlled banks were to be priority candidates for
early on-site examinations to determine whether their high loan growth rates (most of
which were foreign exchange linked) were compromising asset quality or putting at risk
longer-term capital adequacy. To this end, enforcement capacity of the NBS Supervision
Department was slated to be further improved through the implementation of the second
phase of the SDP.

As a result of the relatively uneven implementation of supervisory processes, the NBS
agreed with the need for a time-bound, prioritized "second phase" SDP. This follow up
on SDP was intended, in part, to identify steps to accomplish key tasks to implement risk
based supervision and to elevate those supervisory areas still requiring management
attention. Overarching this initiative, the NBS in collaboration with the MOF was to
draft the new Law on Banks and Banking. Upon seeking comments from the industry,
public, the World Bank and IMF, it was envisaged that the new law would be introduced
to Parliament in late 2005. The introduction of new Law on Banks and Banking was in
line with the recommendations of the FSAP mission and was an IMF structural
performance criterion for mid-November 2005.

Finally, the supervisor needed to continue its efforts in evaluating the results of and
differences between the year-end audited financial statements and bank examinations to
determine divergence in reporting, particularly in the area of required loan loss provisions
and accuracy of financial reporting. Action plans addressing, inter alia, issues of
inaccurate financial reporting and capital inadequacy, bank internal control systems, and
board and management responsibility for such, needed to be prepared, reviewed by the
subject bank(s), and approved and signed by both parties.

Main Achievements. The NBS adopted a comprehensive "second phase" SDP which
was to reinforce the importance of key supervisory activities requiring NBS management
attention. The updated SDP was to also elevate expectations for a sound, increasingly risk
based supervisory approach demonstrated by: (i) revised draft of a comprehensive SOP,
which was satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) risk matrices and supervisory strategies for banks
examinations completed as of September 30, 2005; (iii) a time-bound corrective action
plan to address Basel Core Principles weaknesses identified; (iv) for those banks whose
deadline for the implementation of corrective action measures had expired as of
September 20,2005, the NBS verified that provisions had been taken by the deadline
specified in the corrective action plan and were reflected on subject banks' financial and
regulatory reports; (v) NBS had issued a new regulation, effective January 1, 2006, that
required the examined banks to book NBS directed provisions no later than the end of the
quarter of the NBS' issuance of the corrective measures and make necessary changes in
regulatory reports.

The 2005 Law on Banks and related by-laws issued have addressed many of the
regulatory issues cited in the 2005 FSAP report and equally, some of the overarching
recommendations of the updated Supervisory Development Plan (SDP). Work on SDP
has continued even after the project completion, and is presently supported under the
PFDPL/DDO program. Recently the NBS amended its asset classification methodology


                                            16

and issued an important new regulation for the minimum content of banks' external
audits.

Policy Area 2.4: Access to Finance

Improving access to finance had been an important component of prior structural
adjustment operations, which resulted in significant increases of consumer (and to a
lesser degree, corporate) lending. Further, the legal framework for creating and enforcing
security agreements had been markedly improved. As well, the GoS had begun work on
the establishment or development of the key institutions for the implementation of the
Pledge Registry and Real Estate Cadastre. In addition, a new Credit Bureau was
operating, demonstrating the willingness of major lenders to cooperate amongst its
members in making borrower data available. However, the last piece in the framework
for secured lending, the Mortgage Law, was not in place.

In Serbia, mortgages on buildings were the most frequently requested type of collateral
and accounted for approximately 45 percent of all bank collateral in year 2003. The
institution of mortgages was stipulated by only a few provisions of the Law on the
Principles of Property Relations. Because of weaknesses in the legal framework and lack
of experience with the execution procedures, banks often require collateral and other
forms of security in addition to a mortgage to limit their credit risk (multiple guarantors,
non-real estate collateral, direct salary deduction for loan payments, bills of exchange,
etc.).

There was an urgent need to reform the mortgage-based lending system owing to: the
lack of adequate legal and regulatory framework; the absence of the efficient supporting
administration, i.e. real estate registration; and the absence of secondary market
mechanisms. Even though a few foreign-owned banks had begun providing mortgage
lending for residential flats, most domestic banks lacked the ability to attract, and thus,
offer long-term funding, which precludes their entry into mortgage lending. The GoS had
established the National Mortgage Insurance Corporation of Serbia (NMICS) which
assumed the major part of the credit risk in mortgage lending. The NMICS provided
mortgage guarantee insurance, and once operational, could act as a secondary market
maker.

Main Achievements. In an effort to address these recognized deficiencies, the GoS
prepared a draft Mortgage Law which regulated contracting and registration of mortgage,
as well as the settlement of a mortgage creditor. The major aim of the law was to improve
the efficiency of mortgage creation and enforcement, which was a well-known problem
in Serbia, and which inhibited development of the secondary mortgage markets and
mortgage securities. The draft law also needed to address the issue of the registration of
mortgages that were not included as yet in the real estate cadastre. Specific task under
this pillar of the PPFDPC-1 was to be the submission to Parliament of the draft Mortgage
Law, satisfactory to the Bank. The Mortgage Law was adopted by Parliament.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory


                                             17

The overall rating of the outcome is satisfactory, based on the achievements listed above.
Under the PPFDPC, the GoS successfully completed core policy actions. To strengthen
the fiscal discipline, the GoS reduced subsidies and continued with divestiture of SOEs
through privatization and bankruptcy; and pursued reforms in the energy and railway
sector. Government activities aimed at building more efficient and stable financial sector
focused on continued privatization and divestment of state-owned banks and financial
assets; strengthening insurance sector regulation and resolution regime; and improving
access to finance through the adoption of a mortgage law

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

In the longer term, the PPFDPC is expected to improve the capacity of the Government to
reduce poverty through several channels. First, implementation of measures aimed at
strengthening fiscal discipline-through enhancing hard budget constraints and reducing
subsidies will not only improve resource allocation and the country's growth prospects, but
also reduce the risk of macroeconomic shocks, which can adversely affect the living
standards of the poor. Second, reform measures directed at improving the business climate
will create the basis for investments needed for medium-term growth and employment
creation, and thus for more sustained poverty reduction. Third, policy efforts aimed at
building a more efficient and stable financial sector will underpin economic growth and
increase the resilience of the Serbian economy to potential adverse shocks-both of which are
prerequisites for increasing employment and reducing poverty. The poverty rate has halved in
Serbia between 2002 and 2007, to 6.6% of population (or approximatelly 490 thousand
people.)

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The capacity of some public sector institutions to implement an ambitious reform agenda,
while much improved over the past few years, remained relatively weak. The execution
risks were mitigated through the utilization of continued technical assistance facilities
and active coordination of bi-lateral donor funded technical assistance. Furthermore,
support from ongoing and proposed Bank projects in privatization, social protection,
public sector administration reform, and transport sector further served to mitigate risks
and strengthen public sector institutions.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low



                                            18

There is a low risk that the outcomes (or expected outcomes) will not be maintained or
realized due to the following reasons: (i) the reforms supported by the Credit, such as
privatization of state owned banks, liquidation of insolvent banks, and restructuring and
privatization of SOEs are irreversible; (ii) the government is committed to complete the
privatization and restructuring program of SOEs implemented by the Privatization
Agency by the end of 2008; (iii) the DIA has developed a bank strategy, which will
define the resolution strategy for the remaining four small state-owned banks; (iv) with
the sale of DDOR to Fondiaria (Italy) in late 2007, Dunav remains the only government-
owned insurance company and is expected to be privatized. In addition, the proposed
PFDPL/DDO starts a new series of programmatic development policy loans, which will
ensure further support to the government's reform agenda in private and financial sectors
initially supported by the PPFDPC-1. Progress in advancing the reforms supported by
the PFDPL/DDO has been strong and accompanied by progress on the broader
government's reform agenda to accelerate growth, boost inflows of foreign direct
investment and accelerate the country's EU accession. Specifically, seven of the nine
prior actions for the PFDDPL/DDO have been completed and the implementation of two
others is in progress.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The First PPFDPC provided guidance and support to the Government at a crucial stage in
the reform process. The reforms carried out under the operation were essential to the
goals of the Government as articulated in the CAS. Bank performance was excellent in
the preparation of the Project. First, preparation was extremely timely and swift, allowing
for an almost seamless transition from PFSAC I and PFSAC II. Second, the project built
directly on the success of the previous operation--pursuing deeper reforms in the same
key areas. The project design was also exemplary in that the policy measures were highly
specific, ambitious, but achievable, and based on a significant policy and technical
dialogue with the client. The success of this operation hinged upon the Bank team
building strong working relationship with the government counterparts at both policy and
technical agency levels.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

Due to the nature of the project (single Tranche), there was no supervision activities
carried out. However, the Bank team has been monitoring the reform progress through
working with the GoS on the preparation of the next programmatic loan, which started
immediately upon the delivery of PPFDPC-1 to the Board. The on-going technical
assistance for reform implementation has been provided under the EAR Grant for
Privatization, Restructuring and Bankruptcy of State-Owned Enterprises and PHRD grant
for the new loan preparation.


                                             19

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. The Bank worked closely with the
Borrower to provide technical advice on achievement of the established benchmarks and
ensure that all conditions required for the release of the Tranche were met in a timely
fashion.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government demonstrated an exceptional level of commitment to its overall reform
program. It demonstrated this through broad and active participation of the various
agencies in preparation of the PPFDPC-1. Key counterparts were the MOF, MOEP, NBS,
BRA/DIA, and PA. During the preparation, there was an also high degree of cooperation
between the Bank and government counterparts in identifying the specific conditionalities
to be supported under the loan. In particular, the same agencies and staff members who
carried out the policy reforms under the earlier Bank projects, brought to bear their
knowledge and experience in planning the second operation. This experience proved
extremely valuable, as the individuals were familiar not only with the overall goals and
priorities, but also the methodologies and approaches that would be key to
implementation success in the various sectors. Due to the nature of the project (single
Tranche), all agreed upon activities were implemented prior to the Tranche release.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The two key agencies that managed the implementation of the policy program, which
required active participation of a number of institutions as described above, performed
very well, in spite of political pressures at certain times. The cooperation of staff from
these agencies in carrying out the reform programs was a key element of the project
success. In particular, the highly professional and efficient work of the PA and BRA/DIA
staff and consultants ensured timely implementation of technically complex conditions on
resolution of SOEs and banks, respectively.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Borrower was committed to the whole process and worked closely with the Bank to
ensure that the Trance release conditions were met on time.

6. Lessons Learned




                                             20

A major reason for the First PPFDPC's overall success was strong GoS institutional and
political support. Effective cooperation and coordination between GoS and the Bank also
helped sustain support and momentum. This resulted in "buy-in" from the Government,
support from the Bank and focus on the part of both parties in achieving objectives. The
PPFDPLs were also built upon the experience accumulated during the preparation of
PFSAC I and II that started in November 2000, about 30 days after the Serbian "velvet"
revolution. Significant volume of analytical work and technical assistance preceded the
first policy operations SAC I and PFSAC I. The PFSAC experience had demonstrated
that an integrated approach was needed to reform the financial and enterprise sectors in
parallel.

1.      A key lesson from other transition experiences and from the first four years of
transition in Serbia was the need for sequencing: (i) The initial steps should be the
immediate goals of price liberalization and fiscal stability; (ii) Followed by structural
reforms in industrial enterprises and banks and, (iii) Only then, in the third stage, pursue
reforms in utilities, non banking institutions and capital markets. Moreover, due to the
political economy of post conflict Serbia, it was important to start enterprise privatization
with sellable companies ­ or "early wins" - and only later move onto restructuring of the
politically sensitive large loss makers. The focus of the three stage sequencing needed to
include lessons on the timing and design of social policies aimed at directly addressing
poverty reduction and mitigating some of the adverse social impacts potentially caused
by the three transition stages. Continued pursuit of these aims will need to be closely
aligned and sequenced with GoS' efforts to provide adequate social protection for those
displaced by the envisaged restructurings and or privatizations.

2.      Reform implementation is heavily dependent upon an effective champion who
takes the early 'ownership' of the reforms sought. Equally, it is important that the
domestic reform champions are well advised as to the positions assumed and actions
taken. For example, the willingness of key counterparts at NBS and MOF to take key
decisions, inter alia, to significantly reign in regulatory forbearance, take additional
robust measures to further strengthen the bank and insurance regulatory regimes,
withdraw licenses of banks and insurers and offer a number of state-owned banks and
assets for sale has enabled key elements of the financial sector reform agenda to be
advanced. Similarly, the effective management of the enterprise privatization process by
MOE and PA facilitated progress in the reforms of the socially-owned sector.

3.      The ability to provide extensive technical assistance on a timely basis was crucial
to enabling the PFSAC-I and II operations to achieve their objectives. The provision of
technical assistance has also proven successful in other countries (e.g. Romania PSAL
and PSAL II).      The early provision of substantial grant funding and the effective
coordination by the Bank of support from bi-lateral donors (notably EU, DFID and
USAID) for the reform agenda proved critical for developing institutional capacity at the
DIA, PA and NBS to implement early high impact measures. The PPFDPC-1, benefited
from the strengthened institutions that participated under this program and who received
technical assistance from prior Bank and donor funded programs.




                                             21

4.      Good Economic Sector Work (ESW) contributes significantly to a robust dialogue
with counterparts and successful adjustment operations. In 2004 the Bank presented to
the GoS a number of key papers: the Serbia Economic Memorandum; the Financial
Sector Note (FSN); the Investment Climate Assessment (ICA); the Private Sector Note
(PSN); the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP); and in December, the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). To aid in shaping the PPFDPC-1, in mid-2005 the Bank
disseminated a number of other key reports, namely the Fiduciary Assessment Update,
Public Expenditure Review, Accounting and Auditing Report on Observance of
Standards and Codes (ROSC) and Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) reports.

5.      Another factor was the coupling of social protection with major restructuring
efforts. The priority given to mitigating the social costs of enterprise restructuring, and
the publicity and benefits surrounding these efforts, are considered to be one of the
reasons why social turmoil did not erupt. Concrete efforts to provide unemployment and
severance payments and pre-layoff services appear to have had a positive impact.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies
N/A

(b) Co-financiers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                            22

Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title                 Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Supervision
Itzhak Goldberg          Advisor, Policy and Strategy        ECSPF
Richard Martin Humphreys Senior Transport Economist          ECSSD
Alexander Pankov         Sr Private Sector Development       ECSPF
Gennady Pilch            Sr Counsel                          LEGES
Anna Sukiasyan           Resource Management Officer        CSRRM



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage
                                     No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                      61                         311.49
  FY06                                      28                         123.80
  FY07                                                                   0.00
                        Total:              89                         435.29
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.16
  FY07                                                                   2.07
                        Total:                                           2.23




                                         23

Annex 2. Policy Matrix

               Subject                         Conditions of PPFDPL-1                           Outcomes
                                                   Tranche Release
OVERALL PPFDPL-1-                                                                  OVERALL PPFDPL-1
PROGRAM OBJECTIVES: The                                                            PROGRAM OUTCOMES:
objective of the Programmatic                                                      Reduce subsidies so as to facilitate
Private and Financial DPL series is to                                             staff redundancies, there by
strengthen fiscal discipline in the                                                permitting the restructuring and or
enterprise, energy and transport                                                   sale of effected state enterprises
sectors, build more efficient and                                                  and public utilities, minimizing
stable financial sector, and improve                                               market distortions created by such
the investment climate through series                                              enterprises. Additionally the
of policy reforms                                                                  program outcomes are to reduce the
                                                                                   government's holdings in the
                                                                                   banking and insurance sectors and
                                                                                   of financial assets, strengthen the
                                                                                   respective regulatory and
                                                                                   supervisory regimes, increase
                                                                                   access to real estate finance and
                                                                                   overall, further improve the
                                                                                   investment climate.
1. Reduction of MOE subsidy            The Government of the Republic of           Subsidies were reduced to CSD
program and strengthening of           Serbia has proposed to the Parliament       3.85 billion in 2006 budget
Transition Fund mechanisms             of the Republic of Serbia to decrease
                                       the direct subsidies to socially-owned      Further decrease took place in the
                                       enterprises undergoing restructuring        following years:
                                       from CSD 5 billion, allocated for such      2007 ­ CSD 3.22 billion
                                       purposes in the 2005 State Budget, to       2008 ­ CSD 3.09 billion
                                       CSD 3.85 billion in the 2006 State
                                       Budget.

                                       The Government of the Republic of           Transition Fund allocation target of
                                       Serbia has agreed to make available         CSD 4.5 billion was met in 2005.
                                       CSD 4.5 billion from the Transition         Funds available for redundancy
                                       Fund for severance payments to              payments for the companies in the
                                       employees of socially owned                 List increased to 6.5 billion in 2006
                                       enterprises, such enterprises having        and CSD 9.95 billion in 2007.
                                       been set forth in the list agreed upon by
                                       the Bank.
2. Privatization, Restructuring and    Starting December 1,2004: (i) the           (i) The PA offered for sale 23
Bankruptcy of Socially-Owned           Privatization Agency of the Republic of     SOEs and sold 9 through the tender
Enterprises                            Serbia has offered for sale no less than    process
                                       eighteen socially-owned enterprises         (ii) The PA offered for sale 183
                                       and sold at least nine socially-owned       SOEs and sold 131 (71.5%)
                                       enterprises through its tender program;     through auctions.
                                       (ii) PA has offered for sale through        (iii)The PA sold 4 socially-owned
                                       auctions no less than 180 socially-         enterprises set forth in the
                                       owned enterprises, and sold at least 40     restructuring list
                                       percent of such socially-owned              (iv) State controlled creditors have
                                       enterprises; (iii) PA has offered for sale  requested the courts to initiate
                                       no less than eight socially-owned           bankruptcy      procedure     for   6
                                       enterprises, or significant parts thereof   companies from the restructuring
                                       (i.e., representing no less than 50         list.
                                       percent of the total assets), from the list
                                       of enterprises undergoing restructuring,
                                       using, as applicable, tenders, auctions     Privatization and bankruptcy of
                                       and asset sales procedures, and sold at     SOEs removed the need for annual
                                       least three socially-owned enterprises      direct subsidies in the order of $30
                                       set forth in the restructuring list; and    million in 2005.



                                                          24

                                    (iv) Republic of Serbia-owned or
                                    controlled creditors have requested the
                                    courts to initiate bankruptcy
                                    proceedings for at least 6 large SOEs
                                    set forth in the restructuring list.
3. Concessions                      The Government of the Republic of       The Amendments to the Law on
                                    Serbia has submitted to the Parliament  Mining were sent to Parliament in
                                    of the Republic of Serbia amendments    October of 2005, and were
                                    to the Law on Mining, satisfactory to   ultimately adopted in April of
                                    the Bank, incorporating a new royalties 2006. These regulatory reforms
                                    framework                               facilitated granting new
                                                                            concessions in Serbia to
                                                                            International mining companies.
                                                                            Under the follow-up operation,
                                                                            In 2007 alone 41 exploration
                                                                            licenses were renewed and 63 new
                                                                            were     granted,    confirming     the
                                                                            positive impact of the implemented
                                                                            reforms.

4. EPS                              The Government of the Republic of       Adviser, which was supposed to be
                                    Serbia has launched an international    financed by the EU and supported
                                    tender to engage a Financial Adviser    by the Bank, was abandoned by
                                    for Elektroprivreda Srbije, in          EPS. Instead, EPS has
                                    accordance with terms of references     internationally procured and
                                    and procedures satisfactory to the Bank engaged Financial/Restructuring
                                                                            Advisor without the involvement of
                                                                            EU and the Bank.

                                                                            In 2006 the Company operated
                                                                            with total profit of RSD 16.3
                                                                            billion (EUR 193.55 million).

5. Railway sector                   Zeleznice Srbije (ZS) has reduced ZS    (i) The Tranche condition was met,
                                    staff engaged in core ZS activities by  and an additional 4,912 staff were
                                    1,900, or 7.2 percent of total ZS core  released subsequently.
                                    staff of 26,212 employed as of January
                                    1,2005, and ZS and GoS have adopted
                                    the 2005 Business Plan.

                                    ZS to begin the withdrawal of all       (ii) The tranche condition was met,
                                    passenger services from 7.5 percent of  and passenger services were
                                    the network (260km), convert them to    withdrawn from additional 218 km
                                    manipulation lines in 2005 and finalize of lines, some 6.3 percent of the
                                    plans for similar activities through    network, subsequently.
                                    2009 in the 2005-2009 Strategic Plan.

                                    Begin implementation of the approved    (iii) The Business Plan is being
                                    2005 business plan, satisfactory to the implemented.
                                    Bank, pending receipt and acceptance
                                    by the MOF and MVI of the new 2005-
                                    2009 strategic plan.
                                                                            The closure of passenger booking
                                                                            facilities at over forty stations and,
                                                                            consequently, the divestiture or
                                                                            closure of all non-core activities,
                                                                            through the establishment of 14
                                                                            subsidiary companies
6. Privatization and divestment of  The Agency for Deposit Insurance        (i) The core benchmark related to
state-owned banks (SOB) and         (DIA) of the RoS has offered for sale,  the majority sale of shares of
financial assets (non-performing    on behalf of the GoS, a majority (i.e.  Vojvodjanska Bank has been fully
loans (NPL), equities               more than 50%) of Vojvodjanska banka    met with successful divestment of



                                                       25

                                    shares.                                  99.43% of shares.

                                    DIA has appointed a Financial Advisor    (ii) The benchmark related to
                                    for Credy Banka and has agreed to        appointment of financial advisors
                                    recommend resolution strategy for        for resolution of Credy Bank and
                                    Privredna Banka Pancevo to the DIA       strategy for Privredna Banka
                                    Management Board                         Pancevo was also met. Ultimately,
                                                                             the tender for Credy bank failed,
                                                                             while Privredna Banka Pancevo has
                                                                             not been privatized yet. To fully
                                                                             meet this condition in 2005, 4
                                                                             majority state owned banks were
                                                                             successfully privatized (Jubanka,
                                                                             Continental, Novosadska, and
                                                                             Niska)

                                    Binding bids for NPL sale received and   (iii) Binding bids for NPL were
                                    recommended to the Commercial Court      received and the transaction was
                                    of Belgrade for approval                 completed in 2005 as well.
7. Second phase of the Supervisory  The Supervisory Review Committee of      The NBS adopted a comprehensive
Development Plan (SDP               the NBS Banking Supervision              SDP, encompassing all
                                    Department (BSD) and the Governor of     implementation steps agreed upon.
                                    the NBS have adopted the second phase
                                    of the Supervisory Development Plan,     The 2005 Law on Banks and
                                    satisfactory to the Bank, and the NBS    related by-laws issued have
                                    BSD has continued its implementation.    addressed many of the regulatory
                                                                             issues cited in the 2005 FSAP
                                    Implementation has been demonstrated     report and equally, some of the
                                    by: (i) revised draft of a comprehensive overarching recommendations of
                                    SOP, satisfactory to the Bank, (ii) risk the updated Supervisory
                                    matrices and supervisory strategies for  Development Plan (SDP).
                                    banks examinations completed as of
                                    September 30, 2005; (iii) a time-bound
                                    corrective action plan to address Basel
                                    Core Principles weaknesses identified
                                    (iv) for those banks whose deadline for
                                    implementation of corrective action
                                    measures has expired as of September
                                    20, 2005, the NBS is to verify that
                                    provisions have been taken by the
                                    deadline specified in the corrective
                                    action plan and are reflected on subject
                                    banks' financial and regulatory reports;
                                    (v) NBS has issued a new regulation,
                                    effective January 1,2006, that requires
                                    the examined banks to book NBS
                                    directed provisions no later than the
                                    end of the quarter of the NBS' issuance
                                    of the corrective measures and make
                                    necessary changes in regulatory
                                    reports.
8. Strengthening insurance sector   The amendments to the Insurance Law      The first 3 requirements were fully
regulation and resolution regime    have been enacted and are satisfactory   met.
                                    to the Bank.
                                                                             Re MTPL, the strategy has been
                                    The NBS examination report for           agreed but drafting of legislation
                                    DDOR has been issued and a tender        was delayed, inter alia, due to
                                    launched for the appointment of a        necessity to compute run-off M.
                                    Financial Adviser
                                                                             Further reforms in this area are
                                    DIA has launched a tender for an         supported under the PFDPL/DDO.
                                    independent diagnostic audit and
                                    restructuring plan for Dunav insurance


                                                      26

                        company

                        Strategy for MTPL reform has been
                        agreed and a draft law submitted to the
                        Parliament.
9. Access to Finance    The Government of the Republic of       The Mortgage Law was adopted by
                        Serbia has submitted to the Parliament  Parliament.
                        of the Republic of Serbia a draft Law
                        On Mortgage, satisfactory to the Bank




                                         27

Annex 3. Results Indicators

Indicators                                             Baseline      Original       Actual
                                                       Value end    Target end    Value end     Actual Value at end
                                                        2004           2005          2005                 2007
PDO Indicators:
1. Reduction of MOE subsidy program to socially-      CSD 5 billion  CSD 3.85      CSD 3.85    Objective fully met. In
owned enterprises as reflected in the state budget                     billion       billion   the following years
                                                                                               MOE subsidy continued
                                                                                               to decrease in the
                                                                                               budget allocations to
                                                                                               CSD 3.22 billon in
                                                                                               2007 and CSD 3.09
                                                                                               billion in 2008
2. Private sector share in employment                    54%            56%           58%      By early 2008 the share
                                                                                               of private sector in
                                                                                               employment reached
                                                                                               61% (estimate)
3. Private Sector Share in GDP                           50%            52%           55%      Target fully met. By
                                                                                               end 2007 private share
                                                                                               in GDP exceeded 55%
                                                                                               (estimate)
4. Budget support to railway sector considerably                         1%            1%      Target fully met. By the
reduced (as % of GDP)                                                                          end of 2007 budget
                                                                                               support was further
                                                                                               reduced to 0.5% of
                                                                                               GDP
5. The government ownership stake in the banking         35%            25%          23.9%     The target fully met. In
sector reduced                                                                                 the following years the
                                                                                               government continued
                                                                                               successful reforms in
                                                                                               the banking sector, and
                                                                                               the state ownership
                                                                                               stake in the banking
                                                                                               sector was further
                                                                                               reduced to 14.8% by
                                                                                               end 2006.
6. The government ownership stake in the insurance      74.2%           70%         67.62%     The government
sector reduced                                                                                 ownership stake in the
                                                                                               insurance sector was
                                                                                               further reduced to
                                                                                               30.8% by end 2007
Intermediate Indicators
1. The Privatization Agency offered for sale not less     0         Offered for   Offered 23   Target fully met. 50
than 18 SOEs and sold at least 9 of them through the                sale 18 and   for sale and additional enterprises
tender program                                                         sold 9        sold 9    sold through tenders by
                                                                                               February 2008
2. The Privatization Agency offered for sale through      0         Offered for   Offered for  The target was
auctions not less than 180 SOEs and sold at least                   sale 180 and  sale 183 and outperformed by 82%.
40% of them                                                         sold at least  sold 131    Additional 572
                                                                       40 %         (71.5%)    enterprises were sold
                                                                                               through auctions by
                                                                                               February 2008




                                                       28

3. The Privatization Agency offered for sale not less         0      3             4            The target was
than 8 SOEs from the list of enterprises undergoing                                             outperformed by 33%.
restructuring, using all applicable methods, and sold                                           Additional 23
at least 3 of them                                                                              enterprises from
                                                                                                restructuring list were
                                                                                                sold by February 2008
4. Strengthened Transition Fund mechanism for                 0      CSD 4.5       CSD 4.5      Target fully met.
redundancy payments of employees of socially                         billion       billion      Budget allocation for
owned enterprises (allocation in CSD)                                                           2006 increased to CSD
                                                                                                6.5 billion, for 2007 ­
                                                                                                to 9.95 billion
5. Regulatory framework for mining improved            Inadequate    Amendments    Amendment    Target fully met. Later
through submission of amendments to the Law on         legal         to the Law on s to the law on the amendments
Mining to the Parliament                               framework     Mining        on Mining    were adopted and
                                                       for mining    submitted to  submitted to implementation
                                                                     the           the          regulations were put
                                                                     Parliament    Parliament   into place, which
                                                                                                improved regulatory
                                                                                                framework and
                                                                                                facilitated granting
                                                                                                exploratory concessions
                                                                                                to international mining
                                                                                                companies
6. Zeleznice Srbije (ZS) core staff reduced by 7.2%,   26,212 core   1,900 (7.2%)  1,900        By end 2007 core staff
services withdrawn from 7.5% of the network            staff,        of core staff (7.2%) of    of ZS was further
                                                       0 withdrawal  reduced,      core staff   reduced to 19,400
                                                       from          services      reduced,     employees, ZS
                                                       passenger     withdrawn     services     withdrew its passenger
                                                       services      from 260 km   withdrawn    services from additional
                                                                     (7.5% of      from 260     218 km (6.3%)
                                                                     networks)     km (7.5% of
                                                                                   networks)
7. The Agency for Deposit Insurance (DIA) offered             0      Majority of   99.43% of    The DIA successfully
for sale a majority of Vojvodjanska Banka shares                     shares        shares sold  continues privatization
                                                                     (>50%)                     of remaining state
                                                                     offered for                shares in the banking
                                                                     sale                       sector
8. The DIA initiates privatization of state shares in         0      The DIA       State shares The target fully met.
two majority state owned banks                                       appoints      in 4         While the attempts to
                                                                     financial     majority     sell initially proposed
                                                                     adviser for   owned        banks failed after being
                                                                     Credy banka   banks were   initiated, other four
                                                                     and agrees on sold:        banks with majority
                                                                     resolution    Jubanka,     state share were sold.
                                                                     strategy for  Continental,
                                                                     Privredna     Novosadska
                                                                     Banka         and Niska
                                                                     Pancevo
9. Insurance sector regulatory framework               Inadequate    Amendments    Amendment    Target fully met.
strengthened by enactment of amendments to the         regulatory    to the        s to the
Insurance Law                                          framework     Insurance     Insurance
                                                       for insurance Law enacted   Law
                                                       sector                      enacted
10. Regulatory framework for mortgage finance          Inadequate    Draft Law on  The          The target was
strengthened by submitting to Parliament draft Law     regulatory    Mortgage      Mortgage     outperformed as the
on Mortgage                                            framework     submitted to  Law          draft Law was not only
                                                       for mortgage  parliament    adopted by   submitted, but adopted.
                                                       finance                     Parliament




                                                         29

Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                   30

31

32

33

Annex 5. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A



                                    34

Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Internal World Bank Documents

Program Document, October, 2005
Letter of Development Policy, October, 2005
Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, October, 2005
ROC, QER (the file under the "other" materials of Michael)
Minutes of Concept Review Meeting, May. 2005
Minutes of the ROC Review Meeting, August 2005
QER Panel findings, June, 2005
Aide Memoire of Pre-Appraisal Mission, Mining Sector, July, 2005
Aide Memoire of Pre-Appraisal, Railway Sector, May, 2005
Aide Memoire of Pre-Appraisal Mission, Energy Sector, June, 2005
Aide Memoire of Preparation Mission, Energy Sector, April, 2005
Aide Memoire of Identification Mission, January, 2005
Private and Financial Sector Policy Notes for the Country Partnership Strategy
discussions, July, 2007
Program Document for the Programmatic Private and Financial Development Policy
Loan/Deferred Drawdown Option, February, 2008


Publicly available World Bank Documents related to this Credit

Implementation Completion Report: Serbia and Montenegro - Second Private and
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (PFSAC 2), June, 2005
Serbia - Country Partnership Strategy, November, 2007
Implementation Completion and Results Report: Serbia and Montenegro - Privatization
& Restructuring of Banks & Enterprises Technical Assistance Project, October, 2007
Project Information Document: Serbia and Montenegro - Programmatic Private and
Financial Development Policy Credit (PFDPC-1), August, 2005
Serbia and Montenegro - Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), November, 2004

Other World Bank Reports

Serbia and Montenegro - Serbia: an agenda for economic growth and employment,
December, 2004




                                           35

