Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4131 YF 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(First Programmatic Private and Financial Development Policy Credit) 
 
between 
 
SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 8, 2005 
 
Page  2
2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4131 YF 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 8, 2005, between SERBIA AND 
MONTENEGRO  (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower and the 
Republic of Serbia a letter dated October 20, 2005, describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in 
poverty, through strengthening the fiscal discipline in enterprise, energy and transport 
sectors, and attracting foreign direct investment; and building a more efficient and stable 
financial sector and improving access to finance (the Program), declaring the Borrower
’s 
and the Republic of Serbia’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower and the Republic of Serbia have carried out the measures 
and taken the actions described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the 
Association, and have maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(C) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit 
as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
Page  4
2
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency  specified in Section 2.02 (b) of 
the Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that withdrawals in the currency 
of the Borrower shall be made in such currency or currencies as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably select.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement 
and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c)  
Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in 
the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower 
and the Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“CSD” means the currency of the Republic of Serbia; and  
 
(b) 
“Euro ” means the lawful currency of the member states of the European 
Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the 
European community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union. 
Page  5
3
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty eight million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
38,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:  (i) all withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into an account in Euro 
designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Association; and (ii) the Borrower shall 
ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Credit into said account, an equivalent 
amount is accounted for
 in the Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner 
acceptable to the Association.  
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the Credit was 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment 
to the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
Page  6
4
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit 
in semiannual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15, 
commencing February 15, 2016 and ending August 15, 2025. Each installment 
shall be five percent (5%) of such principal amount. 
 
Section 2.08. The Euro is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the 
General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02.  The Borrower shall make available to the Republic of Serbia the 
equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, such terms to include the provisions set forth in Article II of this Agreement. 
 
Page  7
5
Section 3.03.  (a)  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01(a) of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Association such 
information relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Association 
may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
(b) 
Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the deposit account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) audited 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four (4)  months after the end of the Borrower’s 
fiscal year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the 
deposit account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01.  The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that following the acceptance by the Government of the Republic of 
Serbia of the arrangements referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
has enacted a law or laws related to the above arrangements, and satisfactory to the 
Association. 
 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
6
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister for International Economic Relations of the Borrower 
is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry for International Economic Relations of Serbia and 
Montenegro 
 
Bul. Mihajila Pupina 2 
 
Belgrade 11070 
 
Serbia and Montenegro 
 
Facsimile:  
 
381
11
311-2979 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Belgrade, Serbia and Montenegro, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 
 
By /s/ Predrag Ivanovic 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Shigeo Katsu 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  10
8
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1. 
expenditures in CSD, or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower. 
 
2.  
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, loan, or grant; 
 
3.  
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  11
9
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;  
 
6. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  12
10
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
1. 
The macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower and the Republic 
of Serbia is satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between 
the Borrower and the Republic of Serbia, and the Association. 
 
2. 
(a) 
The Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to the 
Parliament of the Republic of Serbia to decrease the direct subsidies to socially-
owned enterprises undergoing restructuring from CSD 5 billion, allocated for 
such purposes in the 2005 State Budget, to CSD 3.85 billion in the 2006 State 
Budget. 
 
(b) 
The Government of the Republic of Serbia has agreed to make 
available CSD 4.5 billion from the Transition Fund for severance payments to 
employees of socially-owned enterprises, such enterprises having been set forth in 
the list agreed upon by the Association. 
 
3.  
Starting December 1, 2004: (i) the Privatization Agency of the Republic of 
Serbia (PA) has offered for sale no less than eighteen socially-owned enterprises 
and sold at least nine socially-owned enterprises through its tender program; (ii) 
the PA offered for sale through auctions no less than 180 socially-owned 
enterprises, and sold at least 40 percent of such socially-owned enterprises; (iii) 
the PA has offered for sale no less than eight socially-owned enterprises, or 
significant parts thereof (i.e., representing no less than 50 percent of the total 
assets), from the list of enterprises undergoing restructuring, using, as applicable, 
tenders, auctions and asset sales procedures, and sold at least three socially-owned 
enterprises set forth in the restructuring list; and (iv) Republic of Serbia owned or 
controlled creditors have requested the courts of the Republic of Serbia to initiate 
bankruptcy proceedings for at least six large state owned enterprises set forth in 
the restructuring list . 
 
4. 
The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the Parliament 
of the Republic of Serbia amendments to the Law on Mining, satisfactory to the 
Association, incorporating a new royalties framework. 
 
5. 
The Government of the Republic of Serbia has launched an international tender 
to engage a financial advisor for Elektroprivreda Srbije, in accordance with terms of 
references and procedures satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Page  13
11
6. 
Zeleznice Srbije (ZS) has reduced ZS staff engaged in core ZS activities by 1900, 
or 7.2 percent of total ZS core staff of 26,212 employed as of January 1, 2005, and ZS 
and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have adopted the 2005 Business Plan, 
satisfactory to the Association. 
7. 
The Agency for Deposit Insurance of the Republic of Serbia has offered 
for sale, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a majority (i.e., 
more than 50 percent) of Vojvodjanska banka shares.  
 
8. 
The amendments to the Insurance Law have been enacted, and are 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
9. 
The Supervisory Review Committee of the National Bank of Serbia (NBS) 
Banking Supervision Department and the Governor of the NBS have adopted the second 
phase of the Supervisory Development Plan, satisfactory to the Association, and the NBS 
Banking Supervision Department has continued its implementation. 
 
10. 
The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the Parliament of the 
Republic of Serbia a draft Law on Mortgage, satisfactory to the Association. 
 
