Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15245
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2817-IND)
December 29, 1995
Infrastructure Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit= Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
(as of June 1995)
US$1 = Rp 2,200
Rp 1 million = US$455
(at time of appraisal)
US$1 = Rp 1,650
Rp 1 million = US$606
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m) = 39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
Bina Marga -      Directorate General of Highways (MPW)
BINKOT    -       Directorate of Urban Road Planning (MPW)
CBD         -     Central Business District
CPCO       -      City Project Coordination Office
ERR         -     Economic Rate of Return
GOI        -      Government of Indonesia
IRE        -      Institute of Road Engineering
UEDP        -     Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Project
MPW         -     Ministry of Public Works
PMU         -     Project Management Unit



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Oflr of the D dcior-Gwmwl
Opeatons EvWlution
Decnber 29, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Regional Cities Urban Transport Project (Loan 2817-IND)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Indonesia: Regional Cities Urban
Transport Project, RCUTP, (Loan 2817-IND, approved in FY87) prepared by the East Asia Regional
office, with Part II prepared by the Borrower. The Loan for US$51 million was approved on May 1987
and closed on December 1993. A total of US$50.51 million were disbursed; the balance was canceled.
The project was designed to reduce bottlenecks in urban road infrastructure in Bandung, Medan,
Semarang, and Surabaya. The main objectives of the Project were to: (i) implement a high priority
program of measures aimed at improving traffic and transport infrastructure conditions in the above
regional cities; (ii) develop technical capabilities in the planning and design of transport facilities in the
project cities; and (iii) develop central government skills in planning and design of urban transport. The
project consisted of road construction, rehabilitation, selected corridor improvements and maintenance;
traffic engineering; training; and ongoing advisory assistance.
The project's implementation experience was satisfactory. Physical targets were achieved and, for
some components, exceeded. The project benefited from a rapid mobilization of government after Loan
signing, and had a remarkable pace in the implementation of major civil works. The road works were
completed one year ahead of the appraisal report's estimate. Overall, the project helped to improve
accessibility to various areas within the project cities. The average ERR for selected components at project
completion exceeded 15 percent. Construction and maintenance quality proved to be adequate with the
exception of a portion of the works, which experienced problems due to the quality of a contactor's work,
particularly quality of materials and working methods. Institutional objectives were partially met: progress
was achieved in developing skills in central government agencies but capacity building within the cities was
limited and the demise of the Project Management Unit at project completion had repercussions in that
planning and programming efforts in urban roads have not been sustained. As a result of their limited
participation in the planning and management of the municipal institutional development components, and
the lack of attention to city-level institutional problems, the cities' ownership of the project was limited.
The knowledge imparted at the level of the regional cities cannot be used until legislation is passed to allow
greater municipal autonomy.
The main lesson learned is that a legal framework within which responsibilities are established for
transport planning at the municipal governmental project implementation level is an important prerequisite
for achieving sustainable institutional improvement in urban transport planning.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only In the performance of their 
This officlal duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2
On balance, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory and its sustainability as likely; in view of
the prqject's failure to streng     city govemments, its institutional development impact is rated as
modeate. The PCR is of good quality.
No audit is planned.
Aitachment



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2817-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT'
Table of Contents
Paae No.
P reface  ............................................................i
Evaluation Summary ............................................................          .         .
Part I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
B ackground   .....................................................1
Project Objectives ....................................................1I
Project Description .....................................................2
Project Organization and Design .....................................................             3
Project Implementation .....................................................4
Project Results .....................................................6
Physical Results ....................................................8
Economic Benefits .....................................................9
Impact of the Project ...............                                                            10
Project Sustainability ................;    11
Bank Performance ..................................................                              12
Borrower Performance ..................................................                          13
Project Relationship .............                                                               13
Consulting Services ..................................................                           13
Project Documentation and Data ..................................................                13
Part II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Part m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Appendix A: Map No. IBRD 27177
The original closing date of this loan in the loan agreement was October 1, 1994. As the completion mission
departed before July 1, 1994, a Completion Report was prepared in accordance with OP 13.55, not an
Implementation Completion Report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
[LOAN 2817-INDI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Regional Cities Urban
Transport Project (RCUTP) for which a loan of US $51 million equivalent to the Republic
of Indonesia was approved on May 19, 1987. The loan became effective in August 25,
1987. The loan was closed at the Borrower's request on December 23, 1993, some nine
months earlier than the closing date in the loan agreement of October 1, 1994. Final
disbursement took place in December 1993. The total amount disbursed against this loan
was US $ 50,516,268.45.
This PCR was prepared by Edward Dotson (EA3IN) and reviewed by Anupam
Khanna, Division Chief (EA3IN) and Richard Calkins, Operations Advisor (EA3DR).
This PCR is based on information in the project file and data provided by the Government
of Indonesia (GOI). The Borrower contributed to the preparation of this PCR by
preparing it's own evaluation which is included as Part II of this PCR
The completion mission for this project departed April 26, 1993.






Evaluation Summary
Introduction
The Bank has a long-standing association with the Government of Indonesia (GOI)
in addressing urban policy issues and implementing urban investments, including urban
transport. Preparation of the Regional Cities Urban Transport Project (RCUTP) began in
1984, at a time when there was a substantial backlog of investment in urban transport
infrastructure. These conditions had a direct bearing on the composition of the RCUTP.
Project Objectives and Description
The objectives of the project, as set out in the SAR of April 1987 were to (a)
implement a high priority program of measures aimed at improving traffic and transport
infrastructure conditions in the project cities; (b) develop city professional and technical
capabilities in the planning, design, implementation, and maintenance of transport facilities
and services; (c) develop central government agency skills in (i) providing technical
assistance to cities in planning, designing, implementing, and operating and maintaining
their urban transport facilities and services; (ii) developing national policy guidelines and
technical standards for urban transport, and (iii) preparing and appraising future urban
transport projects; and (d) establish a process of coordinating the planning and
programming of central and local government agency investments in urban transport
infrastructure and services, so as to develop rolling multi-year comprehensive urban
transport investment programs in the nation's principal cities.
Project Description
The project was designed to address backlogs in urban road infrastructure in the
project cities (Bandung, Medan, Semarang and Surabaya) through the provision of 29
kilometers of road construction (US$34.9 million); 14 kilometers of corridor
improvements (US$9.2 million); traffic engineering (US$17.2 million); and road
rehabilitation and maintenance (US$12.5 million). In addition the project provided for
training (US$0.9 million) and technical assistance (US$13.4 million) in project
management, construction supervision, and preparation of future investments.
Project Implementation Experience
Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up. Satisfactory mobilization of both
government and consultant personnel promoted an early start with the project
commencing shortly after the signing of the Loan Agreement in May 1987.
Implementation Schedule. The speed of implementation of the major civil works
program was remarkable. Both city and central government administered works progress
more rapidly than planned, which was particularly notable in the case of the latter .



Procurement. Procurement was in accordance with the Loan Agreement and
Bank guidelines and tendering performance was continually assessed. For civil works, the
average time required from completion of the bidding documents to contract signing was
12 weeks for contracts valued at less than Rp 1 billion and 19 weeks for higher-valued
contracts. Due to the urgency of installing traffic signals at key intersections, procurement
comprised a combination of civil works addenda, prudent shopping and ICB procedures.
Construction Quality. On the whole road construction and maintenance quality
proved to be adequate. One noticeable exception was the rigid pavement of the southem
part of the Bandung inner ring road.
Project Costs. The estimated costs of the project at appraisal were US$88.1
million and the actual costs amounted to US$83.4 million. Whereas the actual cost of civil
works increased by 17 percent, reflecting the increased length of road works, the actual
cost of equipment was reduced to just over half of base cost estimates. The actual cost of
consulting services was 30 percent higher than estimated, reflecting the greater than
anticipated technical assistance required for the project.
Loan Allocation. Adjustments to the loan allocation were made to reflect
changing priorities and the need to respond to a dynamic environment. A major revision
was made in October 1990, when US$8.4 million of unallocated funds were reallocated to
the other loan categories; further minor revisions made in June 1991 and September 1992.
Project Results
Project Objectives and Physical Results. The project was successful in the
implementation of road works, traffic engineering and road maintenance. The actual length
of road works exceeded SAR targets and were completed over one year ahead of the SAR
schedule. Highway engineering and road maintenance knowledge has been successfully
applied. Seminars held in project cities led to greater local understanding of urban
transport matters but limited progress was achieved in developing skills in the preparation
and appraisal of multi-year comprehensive urban transport investment programs.
Economic Benefits. Major road construction schemes were selected for post
implementation evaluation and the average ERR achieved is 25 percent. Although the
SAR did not estimate rates of return for road maintenance and traffic engineering it would
appear from observations that these components generated a good rate of retum.
Impact of the Project
The perceived impacts of the project, resulting from discussion groups held in the
four cities, are improved working relations between city planning agencies, improved
accessibility and increased travel opportunities, a noticeable increase in public transport
service provision and a significant reduction in road accidents (in Bandung). Each city has
adopted new practices for road maintenance with a computerized road maintenance
management system. The training programs provided a greater understanding of transport



planning, highway engineering, road maintenance, and traffic management. The project
involved land acquisition and families who held full title were able to use compensation to
obtain land elsewhere; those without title received significantly less.
Project Sustainability
The economic benefits from the project are sustainable with normal maintenance.
The planning and programming improvements for the development of urban road and
urban transport projects supported by the Project Management Unit have not been
sustained as the end of the project saw the demise of the unit. An important finding of the
project is that the devolution of responsibilities for transport planning (including road
programs and traffic management) to competent city local governments is the single most
important requirement for a sustainable institutional improvement in urban transport
planning, programming and de-ign. The legal framework to achieve this devolution was
not available as anticipated during the life of the project.
In the short run, the project has a positive environmental benefit, as pollution
decreases with improved vehicle operating conditions, reduced fuel consumption and
reduced emissions. In the longer term many of these benefits will likely be dissipated with
the increase in traffic flow made possible by the project.
Findings and Lessons Learned
The main lessons to be learnt from experience on the project relate to institutional
and development and project ownership. Although the physical works were successfully
implemented and staff trained, there has been no sustainable capacity created at a local
government level to undertake similar works in the future, without once again setting up
project specific management arrangements.
Borrower Performance
Covenants have been fully complied with except in two cases. The project
management structure adopted enabled direct and efficient lines of communication
between central and local government staff, and contributed towards the successful
implementation of the project.






Part I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Name:                    Regional Cities Urban Transport Project
Loan Number:             2817-iND
RVP Unit:                East Asia and Pacific Region
Country:                 Indonesia
Sector:                  Infrastructure
Background
1.   In the infrastructure sector, the Bank has a long-standing association with the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) in addressing policy issues and implementing its urban
strategy, including the strategy for urban transport. The Regional Cities Urban Transport
Project (RCUTP) was conceived at a time when historic investment in urban transport was
low and there was a substantial backlog of potential viable projects from which to compile
development programs. Notable were the opportunities for quick and high return
investments in the traffic engineering, traffic management and road maintenance
subsectors. These conditions had a direct bearing on the composition of the RCUTP. The
project was seen at the time as a stand alone urban transport project, not directly related
to other projects.
2.    Preparation of the Regional Cities Urban Transport Project commenced in 1984
with the principal objectives of strengthening the capability and effectiveness of both
central and city governments to plan, provide and maintain urban transport infrastructure
and services (Table 2). These objectives were and are still consistent with the GOI's twin
development goals of decentralizing responsibilities for urban transport management to
city authorities and integrating the planning, programming and budgeting for urban
transport with those for other development sectors at the local level.
Project Objectives
3.    The principal objectives of the project, as set out in the SAR of April 1987 are to:
(a)   implement a high priority program of measures aimed at improving traffic
and transport infrastructure conditions in the project cities;
(b)   develop city professional and technical capabilities in the planning, design,
implementation, and maintenance of transport facilities and services;
(c)   develop central government agency skills in (i) providing technical
assistance to cities in planning, designing, implementing, and operating and
maintaining their urban transport facilities and services; (ii) developing



2
national policy guidelines and technical standards for urban transport, and
(iii) preparing and appraising future urban transport projects; and
(d)   establish a process of coordinating the planning and programming of
central and local government agency investments in urban transport
infrastructure and services, so as to develop rolling multi-year
comprehensive urban transport investment programs in the nation's
principal cities.
Project Description
4.    The project was designed to address a substantial backlog of road infrastructure,
traffic engineering, and road maintenance needs in the cities of Bandung, Medan,
Semarang, and Surabaya. The project consisted of the following principal components:
(a)   Road Construction (US$34.9 million): (i) construction of 4 km of new
road links in Bandung and Semarang, and (ii) widening or major
reconstruction of 25 km of existing road links in all four project cities;
(b)   Corridor Improvements (US$9.2 million):  selected improvements to
14 km of road links in all project cities through comprehensive measures
which will involve less than full reconstruction; this includes, inter alia,
selective repaving, drainage and traffic-engineering measures;
(c)   Traffic Engineering (US$17.2 million): provision of (i) comprehensive
traffic improvements to the congested central business districts;
(ii) improvements to isolated intersections, (iii) traffic signal equipment at
about 140 intersections across all four project cities; and (iv) citywide
street signing and road marking programs;
(d)   Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance (US$12.5 million): provision of
equipment to execute routine road maintenance works, and funds for
conducting road rehabilitation and maintenance works and related activities
for a five-year period in each project city;
(e)   Training (US$0.9 million): establishment of training programs, with the
principal emphasis on city-level technical and professional staff
development in the areas of transportation planning, traffic engineering,
road maintenance, and construction management; and
(f)    Technical Assistance (US$13.4 million):  consultant services to Bina
Marga and the project cities for: (i) project management, including project
accounting, conducting a city transportation services institutional study and
preparation of annual traffic engineering and road rehabilitation/
maintenance programs; (ii) construction supervision; and (iii) preparation
of future projects.



3
Project Organization and Design
5.    The Project Management Unit (PMU), attached to the Directorate of Urban Road
Planning (BINKOT), Directorate General Bina Marga, was responsible for the overall
planning and control of the project and acted as the primary point of contact for local and
central govermnent agencies and the Bank. The detailed planning and execution of works
in the project cities were coordinated and supervised by the City Project Coordination
Offices (CPCOs). Each CPCO operated as a project implementation office under the
direction of the Mayor with guidance from a Local Steering Committee. The Chief of the
CPCO was a city government-appointed officer who was supported by two Project
Managers responsible for Bina Marga and City-funded project implementation.
6.    Considerable technical assistance support was needed to supervise and monitor the
implementation of the physical works associated with the project. These services were
required in each of the four Regional Cities involved, Surabaya, Bandung, Medan and
Semarang and also in Jakarta where the overall management and coordination of the
project was controlled through the Project Management Unit (PMU).
7.    Throughout the project there was a need to provide direct assistance to the
Directorate of Urban Road Planning (Binkot) for the management of RCUTP including
matters related to IUIDP (Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Projects), the
development and implementation of Repelita V urban roads policy, and general assistance
with the planning and programming of projects. In addition there was a special need to
provide assistance to the Institute of Road Engineering (IRE) in Bandung in introducing a
system of identifying and designing urban transport facilities to solve road safety problems.
This was achieved by providing:
Ongoing advisory services and technical assistance for coordinating and
monitoring implementation (including financial accounting) and further project
preparation.
* Advisory services and technical assistance to the Directorate of Urban Road
Planning to support the Cities in developing urban transport capability (through
the Institute of Road Engineering in the case of road safety).
*  Direct technical assistance to the City Agencies.
*  On-the-job and formal training.
*  Technical support for the supervision of construction.
8.    By design, the project was supported by several technical assistance contract
phases involving both local and foreign consultants. Phase I was primarily concerned with
the implementation of the first years programn of works and the production of final
engineering designs and contract documentation for the financial year 1988/1989.



4
9.    In December 1988, the project entered its second technical assistance phase. The
scope of works called for ongoing assistance to supervise and monitor the continued
implementation of the five-year program of works and for the fulfillment of the formal
training program. There was also a requirement for assistance in the annual update to the
five-year transport investment programs and the preparation of final engineering design
and contract documentation for selected components.
10.   Additional activities in Phase II concerned the identification and preparation of
future investment requirements in a further five cities. This took the form of high priority
urban road infrastructure and traffic engineering requirements and an assessment of the
need for further study. These activities were carried out in coordination with the ongoing
Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Programs (IUIDP). The cities involved
were Bandar Lampung, Denpasar, Palembang, Pontianak, and Ujung Pandang.
11.   The final phase of the technical assistance support concemed supervision,
preparation and monitoring of the remaining civil works and the traffic signals program.
During this phase continuing support was provided to the cities, notably in Surabaya for
the preparation of the IUIMP urban roads program.
Project Implementation
12.   Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up. Satisfactory mobilization of both
govemment and consultant personnel promoted an early start with the project
commencing shortly after the signing of the Loan Agreement in May 1987.
13.   Implementation Schedule. The speed of implementation of the major civil works
program was remarkable.  Both city and central government administered works
progressed more rapidly than planned, which was particularly notable in the case of the
latter (Table 3). During the course of the five-year implementation program, over 200
components and packages of components were successfully implemented. The task of
component preparation fell to the PMU who were responsible for compilation of the
annual programs and preparation of contract and tender documentation. The only major
perceived project risk was the ability of the city governments to implement and maintain
project components that were substantially larger than past experience. This proved to be
unfounded and very few delays were experienced.
14.   With the exception of one city, land acquisition did not prove to be a noticeable
source of delay and in most cases the right-of-way was-available well in advance of the
commencement of procurement.
15.   Procurement. Procurement methods were determined in accordance with the
Loan Agreement and Bank guidelines. The method employed was dependent on the
contract value and contract type, i.e., whether it was for civil works or goods and services.
As part of the monitoring procedures of the project, and in order to guide future
programming, tendering performance was continually assessed in consultation with City
and Bina Marga Project Managers. In the case of civil works, the average time required
from the completion of the bidding documents to contract signing was no more than 12



5
weeks for contracts valued at less then Rp 1 billion and no more than 19 weeks for higher
valued contracts.
16.   Initially, it was intended to undertake the procurement of traffic signals by
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). However, due to the urgency of implementing
signals at key intersections the signals were eventually installed using a combination of
civil works addenda, prudent shopping and ICB procedures.
17.   Construction Quality. On the whole there were few exceptions to the general
observation that road construction and maintenance quality for RCUTP components
proved to be adequate. One noticeable exception to this, however, was the southern part
of the Bandung inner ring road, Jalan Lingkar Selatan.  During the course of
implementation, a number of deficiencies in the quality of the materials and working
methods employed by the Contractor carne to light, the severity of which suggested
premature failure of the pavement.
18.   The problems were a direct result of the Contractor's failure to adopt acceptable
construction techniques and procedures, failure to use appropriate plant and an adequately
experienced work force.  These shortcomings were exacerbated by the project
organization structure, which conferred the responsibility for control to the Supervision
Team, but failed to give them the necessary authority and resources to do so. However, it
is important to bear in mind that Jalan Lingkar Selatan was one of the first rigid pavement
roads to be constructed in Indonesia and as such the parties concemed were traversing the
learning curve.
19.   In pursuit of higher standards of quality construction, Bina Marga subsequently
endorsed the remedial recommendations by adopting a Project Organization Structure
which gave a clearer line of authority and more direct communication between the various
project groups. More thorough contractor selection procedures were also introduced,
aimed at promoting higher standards through the adoption of a performance monitoring
system that endeavors to ensure contracts are only awarded to competent contractors.
20.   Project Costs. The estimated costs of the project at appraisal were US$88.1
million. (Base Cost US$73.6 million, Contingencies US$14.5 million). The final costs
were US$83.4 million. Civil Works costs remained within 10 percent of base cost
estimated at appraisal.  Equipment costs were slightly more than half base costs.
Consulting Services costs increased by around 30 percent, reflecting the greater than
anticipated technical assistance required for the project. Table 4 provides further details.
21.   Disbursements.  Disbursement performance was impressive and reflects the
overall efficiency of project execution. Table 5 illustrates that disbursement figures were
well ahead of appraisal estimates. By June 1989, half of the loan had been disbursed, as
compared to the SAR estimate of 18 percent. The rate of disbursement performance was
maintained throughout the project but most notable was the major civil works executed by
Bina Marga, with over 90 percent of disbursement achieved by December 1990.



6
22.   Loan Allocation. The original and revised allocations for the loan are shown in
Table 4. Variations to the amount allocated by type of works/services reflect changing
priorities and the project's ability to respond to a dynamic environment. A major revision
was made in October 1990, when US$8.4 million of unallocated funds were reallocated to
the other loan categories. Minor revisions to the loan allocations were made in June 1991,
and September 1992.
Project Results
23.   Project Objectives. An assessment is provided below, based on implementation
experience, of the achievement of project objectives:
(a)   to implement a high priority program of physical works
(b)   to develop local government (city) capabilities
(c)   to develop central government skills in providing technical assistance to
cities, developing policy guidelines and technical standards, and preparing
and appraising future urban transport projects
(d)   to establish a process to develop multi year comprehensive urban transport
programs in principal cities
24.   Physical Works. The project was successful in the implementation of physical
works. The actual length of road construction and corridor improvements exceeded the
targets set in the SAR by 60 percent and 20 percent respectively. In addition the works
were all completed over one year ahead of the schedule in the SAR. Traffic management
and road maintenance works were also successfully implemented. Of note was the
successful procurement and implementation of traffic signal equipment at over 100
junctions by means of contract addenda, prudent shopping and ICB procedures.
25.   Develop city professional and technical capabilities. Seminars were held in
each of the project cites aimed at strengthening the planning and programming capability
of city transport agencies. A greater understanding of transport planning, highway
engineering, traffic management and road maintenance now exists, as well as the
relationship between them. In terms of practical application of this acquired knowledge, it
is difficult to see how the majority of participants will be able to use their knowledge of
transport planning and traffic engineering until such time as responsibilities in these fields
are fully transferred from central to local government. This transfer is provided for in Law
14, 1992, but necessary enabling regulations have only recently been issued. Highway
engineering and road maintenance knowledge has been successfully applied in the
adoption of improved working practices.
26.   Develop central government agency skills. The central government agencies
with prime responsibility for urban transport are the Directorate of Urban Road
Development (BINKOT) in the Ministry of Public Works, and the Directorate General of
Land Transport (Perhubungan Darat) in the Ministry of Communications. The former is



7
responsible for urban roads, the latter for all other urban transport modes.  Skill
development was through on the job training provided through technical assistance, and
formal training courses. The real test (or performance indicator) of the extent to which
this objective has been achieved is the extent to which these agencies are delivering to a
greater extent and better quality than before the project, technical assistance to cities,
policy guidelines and technical standards, and prepared and appraised future projects.
27.   Such a change is not easy to document with regard to technical assistance to cities.
At the start of the project, BINKOT and Perhubungan Darat were undertaking much of
the transport planning and design work for the cities in part because the responsibility for
these activities had not been decentralized. It was expected that the enabling legislation
permitting the transfer of responsibility for these functions would become effective during
the life of the project. In practice transfer took longer than anticipated, and the capacity
of cities to undertake this work is only now emerging. A review of the current situation
shows that technical assistance to cities continues to involve both agencies taking
responsibility for undertaking planning, design and implementation of road and urban
transport projects. The change is that this assistance is now provided at the request of the
cities who now have the legal responsibility for these activities, with the cities as client.
The amount of advice that can be given by BINKOT and Perhubungan Darat continues to
be constrained by the limited staff of both agencies. The quality of advice is affected by
the numerous and often conflicting demands on the time of these staff.
28.   In relation to developing skills for formulating technical standards, the project
would appear to have achieved the objective. Three major technical standards have been
published since loan closing - Highway Capacity Manual for Urban Roads, Geometric
Design of Urban Roads by BINKOT, and Traffic Management Design Manual by
Perhubungan Darat. There is less tangible evidence of skills having developed for
preparing National Policy Guidelines in urban transport. Policy formulation skills have
been developed in Perhubungan Darat, as shown by the active role taken by this agency in
the preparation of the Highways and Road Traffic Action Plan which is being supported
by the Bank's first and second Highway Sector Loans. That such skills have not so far
been applied to urban transport to the same extent has been due in part to the delay in
reestablishing an urban transport unit in Perhubungan Darat, which would be responsible
for formulating such policy, and in part to the limited human resources available.
29.   Significant progress was achieved in the development of central government skills
regarding the preparation and appraisal of future transport projects. However, it is
evident from the continuing reliance on consultancy services that these benefits have not
been fully realized due to human resource and institutional limitations. Continuing support
is required to further develop central and local government skills and address limitations.
30.   Establish a coordinating process to develop rolling multi-year comprehensive
urban transport investment programs. Such a process would essentially be part of the
planning process for IUTDP. In terms of urban transport investment programs, the IUIDP
planning process has been concerned mainly with the provision of road infrastructure, and
has relied heavily on external studies. The project was a major provider of these studies.



8
In particular in Phase II of the project, urban transport programs were prepared for the
IUIDP for the cities of Bandar Lampung, Denpasar, Palembang, Pontianak and Ujung
Pandang. Phase Im, supported the preparation of urban road and traffic management
programs for the Surabaya UDP. However, there is little evidence that any systematic
coordinating processes have been developed.
Physical Results
31.   The physical works in the project included road construction, road corridor
improvements, traffic engineering, and road rehabilitation and maintenance. Table 7
compares SAR estimates of the scope of works with the actual outcome. The actual
length of road construction was over 46 km, compared to an SAR estimate of 30 kmi, an
increase of some 60 percent. Some 16.5 km of road corridors were improved against an
SAR estimate of 13.8 km, an increase of 20 percent.
32.   In the scope of works of the traffic engineering component, the quantities of CBD
improvements, intersection improvements, signing and road markings were not specified.
Approximately 60 percent of the component was appraised, with the remainder to be
prepared and implemented on a programmatic basis. Traffic signal equipment was to be
provided at an estimated 143 intersections, with the actual number of intersections to be
equipped to be subject to continual review. At half these intersections, the equipment was
to replace existing unreliable and obsolete signal equipment. In practice equipment was
supplied and installed at only 107 intersections. Table 7 provides further details of the
SAR estimates and actual outcome for the physical works of traffic engineering
component.
33.   Road rehabilitation and Maintenance. This component contained two items.
First that portion of the five year maintenance programs of the project cities that was
undertaken by contract with private contractors. The type of works to be undertaken
were specified in the SAR, but the extent of the maintenance program was determined
during the project. As indicated in Table 7, rehabilitation and periodic maintenance were
carried out on some 183 Km of primary and secondary roads.
34.   The second item was procurement of equipment for road maintenance undertaken
by force account. Table 8 gives details of the equipment provided by the project.
Differences from the SAR equipment list reflect a revised assessment of local needs during
project implementation.
35.   Training. The formal training program extended over a two and a half year
period, compared to the two years estimated in the SAR. A total of 27 courses were
provided. With one exception, the material presented was as set out in the SAR. The
Bina Marga Training Committee decided in view of the good appreciation of computers
and their more general application, that it would be beneficial to substitute the Computer
Course with a course on road safety. This course was directed at the use of the read
accident system installed in the project cities as part of the project.



9
36.   Studies. A review of the institutional arrangements for traffic management and
road maintenance in project cities was undertaken early in the project. The results of this
review were used to develop project proposals for traffic management units and road
maintenance units. In the second technical assistance phase studies were undertaken for
the identification and preparation of future investment requirements in Bandar Lampung,
Denpasar, Palembang, Pontianak and Ujung Pandang. Further details are provided in
Table 9 of the Part III.
Economic Benefits
37.   At appraisal, schemes for inclusion in the civil works program were selected on the
basis of the estimated economic benefits. The benefits were calculated from reductions in
vehicle operating costs, and savings in travel times for work related trips. Sensitivity
analysis was undertaken on internal economic rates of return (ERR) considering only
vehicle operating cost savings. In order to determine whether the intemal rates of return
estimated at appraisal had been realized, post construction traffic surveys were
undertaken. As resources were limited, the components selected for post implementation
evaluation were major road construction schemes, on the basis that the benefits from these
schemes represent a substantial proportion of the estimated benefits.  To facilitate
comparison, the post construction evaluation methodology was the same as the
methodology used at appraisal, and only benefits from vehicle operating cost savings were
considered. All costs and benefits were discounted to 1985 prices.
38.   The results of the comparison are shown in Table 10. The average ERR achieved
for the components reviewed is 25 percent. However the results by project city are mixed.
In Bandung and Surabaya the actual ERR are greater than the SAR estimates. In Medan
ERR are significantly less than estimated. The main reason for this was the unforeseen re-
designation of the dedicated truck network and the relocation of the bus terminal,
resulting in a lower than predicted use of roads constructed under the project. The ERR of
15 percent for Jl. Bakti corresponds to the minimum ERR considered acceptable at
appraisal. In Semarang, the ERR for the Northern Ring Road Sections I & II is less than
the SAR estimate due to traffic flows being less than forecast. This situation is expected
to improve when section III is completed and the whole Northem Ring Road is open to
traffic.
39.   The SAR did not estimate the ERR for road maintenance and the traffic
engineering components of the project. The assumption was made that such components
had high rates of return in other projects, and therefore could be expected to have more
than acceptable rates of return in this project. The situation before the project was not
reported in measurable terms, so any assessment of benefits must be based on observation
and professional judgment. The road maintenance works have resulted in improved
operating conditions for vehicles. Traffic management measures have increased road
capacity and resulted in local road safety improvements. From these observations, it is
reasonable to make a professional judgment that these components do have a high rate of
return.



10
Impact of the Project
40.   The impact of the project can be assessed in relation to the physical environment,
human resource development and technology transfer. In each city, the project improved
the traffic flow, safety and physical environment of the Central Business District (CBD),
through the completion of by-pass roads or ring roads. These roads permit traffic to go
from one part of the town to another without having to traverse the CBD. Within each
CBD facilities for pedestrians were improved with the construction of sidewalks, and
traffic flow conditions were improved with traffic management.
41.   Environmental issues were not considered to be major concerns during project
preparation and appraisal. During project preparation, the local environmental impact of
major road schemes was studied. These studies were used to screen out investments that
would have had a grossly adverse effect on the immediate localities. In order to assess the
perceived environmental and social impact of the project, discussion groups were held,
after completion of works, in the four cities.  Specific groups were targeted and
questioned about the project. These groups comprised local government agencies, private
transport operators, road users, and commercial establishments in the vicinity of the
improvements. The main points emerging were that the project had resulted in:
* improved working relationships between city planning agencies
* improved accessibility and increased travel opportunities
*   a significant reduction in road accidents in Bandung
*   drop in standards of driver behavior associated with the increased road capacity.
42.   The project involved extensive land acquisition in four cities. However, as was the
practice at the time, no special resettlement plan was prepared. Resettlement for all
projects took place prior to the issuance of Kepress 55/93, Indonesia's improved land
acquisition and resettlement policy. Because baseline surveys were not conducted and
Bank and borrower resettlement supervision was sporadic, no quantitative conclusions can
be made about resettlement performance. Nevertheless, anecdotal evidence from Bank
supervision missions and retrospective information from a Bank-supported study report a
mixed performance. Resettlers who held full title were often able to use compensation to
obtain land elsewhere. Families without title received significantly less.
43.   In terms of technology transfer, each city has now adopted new practices for road
maintenance, and a computerized road maintenance management system. In the area of
road safety, the UK Transport Research Laboratory MAAP accident recording system has
been customized for application in Indonesia.  It has been successfully installed in
Bandung in cooperation the Institute of Road Engineering.
44.   It was recognized at the start of the project that Indonesian cities needed to
develop their capabilities in the urban transport sector. Particularly important functions
requiring development were road maintenance, transport planning and traffic management.
Development of staff capabilities, especially engineers and technicians, needed to be given
top priority to meet these needs. The formal training programs and the on the job training



11
provided the participants with a greater understanding of transport planning, highway
engineering, road maintenance, and traffic management.
45.   The intention at the start of the project was that the trained staff would then apply
these new skills in the local government traffic & transport units scheduled to be
established during the course of the project. As the legal process governing the devolution
of urban transport responsibilities took longer than anticipated, these units were not
established during the life of the project. Some of the potential human resource
development impact in the fields of transport planning and traffic management has
therefore been lost.
46.   The project also called for the establishment of road maintenance units in each of
the four cities. These units came to fruition, the trainees were able to apply and develop
their road maintenance skills.
Project Sustainability
47.   The economic benefits from the project are sustainable, in that the physical works
of the project can be preserved for their design life with normal maintenance and will fulfill
their design functions. The one exception appears to be the inner ring road in Bandung.
This was one of the first rigid pavement contracts in Indonesia, and construction quality
was less than desirable despite adequate site supervision. Long term economic benefits
will be less than expected at appraisal without substantial additional expenditure on
rehabilitation.
48.   The project management unit worked well in supervising the implementation of the
physical works, and in preparing components for inclusion in IUIP projects. However
the end of the project saw the demise of the PMU. The planning and programming
improvements for the development of urban road and urban transport projects supported
by the PMU have therefore not been sustained. An important finding of the project is that
the devolution of responsibilities for transport planning (including road programs and
traffic management) to competent city local governments is the single most important
requirement for a sustainable institutional improvement in urban transport planning,
programrning and design.  The legal framework to achieve this devolution was not
available as anticipated during the life of the project.
49.   In the short run, the project has a positive environmental benefit, as pollution
decreases with improved vehicle operating conditions, reduced fuel consumption and
reduced emissions. In the longer term many of these benefits will likely be dissipated with
the increase in traffic flow made possible by the project. A more sustainable solution lies
in a package of measures including demand management public transport improvements,
traffic management, land use planning to minimize the need for vehicular movements, in
addition to an appropriate level of road network capacity increase. Although this project
envisaged some steps forward in strategic planning, these were not fully realized due to
the absence of a legal framework at a city level as noted above.



12
Bank Performance
50.   Through the project, the Bank financed economically sound and sustainable
physical works, and made a positive contribution to the institutional and human resource
development of the urban transport sector, with a particular focus on the urban road
subsector. At the time of project appraisal, less attention was given by the Bank as an
institution to environmental and resettlement issues than would now be the case. Even so,
the extent and financing of land acquisition and resettlement was discussed in the SAR,
taken into account in the scheduling of physical works and confirmed during negotiations.
Environmental impact was discussed in the SAR.
51.   The main lessons to be learnt from experience on the project relate to institutional
development and project ownership. In the SAR, the principal project risk was considered
to be the capability of the project cities to implement and maintain the physical works
components assigned to them under the project. To reduce the risks, training was
provided to city staff, cities were requested to appoint selected key staff as a condition of
loan effectiveness, and substantial TA was provided. Also included was a review of
arrangements for planning and provision of urban transport services, including traffic
management and road maintenance in the project cities. The loan agreement required an
action plan based on the results of this review to be prepared and implemented. This
would have been a reasonable approach. at the time.
52.   However with the benefit of hindsight, there was no discussion of institutional
issues at a city level in the SAR, in particular the nature and timing of the legal and
administrative changes required, and no provision was made for institutional
strengthening. The net result of the project is that the physical works were successfillly
implemented and staff trained. However, because the legislative and administrative
changes were not completed during the life of the project, the cities were unable to take
over direct responsibility for traffic and transport.  As a result, there has been no
sustainable capacity created at a local government level to undertake similar works in the
future, without once again setting up project specific management arrangements.
53.   Participation of the cities in the planning and management of the project was
limited. In addition the guidelines for the preparation of a future RCUTP in the SAR
envisaged a future project being identified by central government in consultation with local
officials. As discussed earlier, this project was conceived as a stand alone urban transport
project, but more consideration should perhaps have been given to ways of developing
local ownership of project preparation, and of how this could be linked to IUIDP
preparation. In practice, the Bank adopted flexibly to changing government policy and
country circumstances and did not pursue the follow-up project immediately, but
supported the preparation of components for IUIDP projects. This project prepared
components which were included in LTIDP for Bandar Lampung, Denpasar, Palembang,
Pontianak, Surabaya and Ujung Pandang.



13
Borrower Performance
54.   The performance of the borrower in relation to loan covenants is set out in Table
11. Covenants have been fully complied with except in two cases. The first relates to the
partial compliance to the covenant concerning the carrying out of the action plan for the
planning and provision of transport services. The only aspect not fulfilled was the
establishment of the traffic engineering unit. This can be directly attributed to the absence
of necessary regulations governing the transfer of central government responsibilities to
cities. This in turn was the cause of the partial compliance with the covenant requiring the
cities to update the five year urban transport investment plans.
55.   The Government of Indonesia is committed to devolve responsibilities for
transport management from central government to local government, but progress was
slow during the course of RCUTP. The necessary regulations are now on the statute
books and local governments will soon be putting the new regulations into effect by
setting up their own departments.
56.   The project management structure adopted enabled direct and efficient lines of
communication between central and local government staff, and contributed towards the
successful implementation of the project. A flexible approach was adopted by the central
PMU to the changing requirements of different agencies involved. This is best illustrated
by the initially unprogrammed support the PMU provided for the preparation of the
Surabaya IUIDP.
Project Relationship
57.   The success of the project is a result of the close and effective working relationship
established between the Bank and the Borrower, and between the various agencies and
cities involved.
Consulting Services
58.   There was considerable use of consultant services throughout the course of the
project. Services were provided to both central and local govermnent agencies. The
services covered project planning and control, engineering design, contract documentation
and supervision, financial accounting and monitoring, training, road maintenance and road
safety. When consulting services were reduced (usually for budgetary reasons) in cities,
the timing and quality of work outputs declined noticeably. Consultant performance was
satisfactory.
Project Documentation and Data
59.   The appraisal report provided a useful framework for the implementation of the
project, and for the project completion review. The loan agreement was quite appropriate
for achieving the project objectives.



14
Part H: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Table of Contents
1.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION
Background
2.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives
Project Description
3.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION
The P.M.U.
The C.P.C.O.'s
4.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.   PROJECT RESULTS AND CURRENT ESTIMATES OF BENEFITS
SAR Beneflts
Environmental Benefits
Institutional Benefits
Training
Other Aspects
The Economic Rate of Return
6.   CONSIDERATIONS AND LESSONS FOR THE FUTURE



.15
Project name            Regional Cities Urban Transport Project
Loan Number             Loan 2817-IND
World Bank Unit         Asia
Counizy                 Indonesia
Sector                  Urban
Subsector               Urban Transport
1. PROJECT IDENTIFCATION
Background
1.1. Before this project the Government and the World Bank had already cooperated
uxensively on road projects and on urban programmes, but they had not worked together
on urban road systems. Indonesia had completed eight World Bank financed road projects
11alling $754 million All were directed towad construction or betterment of rural or
inter-urban roads. None had a city focus. Similarly, Indonesia had used World Bank
finance for eleven projects in the Urban and Water Supply sector. While some of these
projects contained transport components, none attempted to address general tansport
priorities in the project cities.
1.2. While the main focus of Indonesia road transport effort was on uniting the main
population centres with reasonably high standard roads, including toll roads, to further
integrate regional economies, the road traffic demand in the cities was growing rapidly.
Large cities were growing in population by over 5% per year, and vehicle ownership was
growing at about 15% per year. In many cities., traffic flows (vehicle kilometers) had
trebled in a decade. The result was that cities were getting more and more congested, with
longer and more frequent delays in road trips, particularly in peak hours. Because urban
road expansion was not commensurate with vehicle growth and the growth of deiand for
urban road transport, the existing road system was overloaded, and in many cases roads
were deteriorating rapidly. Maintenance expenditures were inadequate in most cities, and
under these circumstances the scheduling of maintenance to prevent major damage was
difficult. Traffic management was generally lacking, and trffic engineering was out of
date.
1.3. Government attention to general road-transport planning for the project cities dates
from the decision during 1985 to use part of the funds of a previous Bank project (No.
2049 IND) for transport studies in four cities: Bandung, Medan, Semarang, and Surabaya.
The Government of Indonesia intended to identify a series of related road investments in
each city and eventually to arrange Bank fmancing for these projects. Prior to the
prepaation work for this project, neither these cities nor Central Government institutions
for road transport had much experience in planning and implementing multi-component
urban road programmes. City road expansion, improvement, and major maintenance
tended to be done piecemeal with the quantity of work depending largely on short term
Central Govemment budget considerations. The project-identification studies focused on
the road problems of the whole city for a. five year period. They thus complemented



16         -
scval concurrent nitiauives of the Govemment and the World Bank that were aiming to
encourge stronger city administration throughout Indonesia. These city studies included:
studies of local government's fiscal and iusutional capacity, studies of subsoctor
progamming for investMent and maintenance; cost rccoveTy studieS; and (pulling
together many of these ideas) an Urban Services Sector Study (Report No. 4800 SD,
1984). Gcnerally, the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank were working
towards a strategic, city-centered approach to urban management The studies for this
project, and the project itse,lf stopped well short of a srategic approach to road transport
development. The project made some progress along this path, however, including the
selection of investment and maintenance sub components from city wide lists of priorities,
and the attempt to create institutions that would naturally have a city-wide focus.
1.4. The major perceived risk for this project at the time of appraisal was the risk that
cities would not be able to do their part to implement project components, which
comprised a much larger road programme than the cities had typically managed prior to
the project There was also concern that Bina Marga would not be able to manage their
sub components and at the same time administer the entire project, with its dozens of sub
components in four X idely separated cities. Prior road projects that consisted of one or
two major roads had been quite successful. On the other hand, the one World Bank
financed road project with many scattered sub components (Rural Roads Development,
2083 ID) had been much less successful. Because constuction often fell far short of
design standards, the benefits from the Rural Road Project, which was nearing completion
as this project was appraised, did not look to be sustinable with ordinary maintenance
effort The Project Completion Report, completed later, judged that the economic rate of
return of the project, as implemented, was probably unsatisfiactory, because the roads were
deteriorating before yielding the benefits anticipated at the time of project preparation.
With this expeience, the Government of Indoneia and the World Bank appraisal tean
were quite aware of the potential difficulties, and a considerable part of the project
preparation dialogue between the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank
concerned institutional anrangements to guarantee, if possible, the achievement of a
reasonable standard of constuction.



17
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES A:ND DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives
2.1. At the outset of Project Preparation, the RCUTP was intended to embrace multi-
model (private/public ) tansportation. By Project Appraisal, the Project's aims wvere
mainly road orientated In summary, these were:
* to improve road infrastrucure in project cities.
* to develop city capabilities to plan, design and implement programmes for road
investment and maintenance.
* to develop central agencies' abilities: frst, to assist cities in their road progrAmMcs;
second, to set national road-transport guidelines and standards, and third, to
prepare and appraise future projects.
* to cstablish a system for coordinating central and city programmin in urban
transport to develop rolling five year programmes of investment and maintenance.
Project Description
2.2. The project was designed to clear up much of the backlog of unsatisfied demand for
road infiastucre, traffic engineenng, and road maintenance in four project cities during
a stven vear implementation period 1987-94, which included a 5-year physical works
implementation phase. New institutions were planned to facilitate the physical works of
this project. These institutions would also form the framework for later strategic planning
and project implementation under fiuure projects. Their staff were to be trained in their
specialised duties through this projects taining programmes, and were to gain experience
by implementing appropnate components of this project, with suitable technical
assistance.
2.3. The project included the following rajor components:
New road construction or complete reconstruction for 36 km of urban road links,
bringing them to a four or six lane urban arterial standard.
. Major improvements, less than full reconstruction, to 14 km of major corridors.
Traffic engineering for central business districts and other important intersections,
selective signalisation, and extensive strect marking and signing.
Provision of equipment for road maintenance
Extensive training of urban transport personnel in project cities and some training
for Bina Marga staff.
Technical assistance to project cities and Bina Marga for project preparation,
project management, construction supervision.
Appendix A, provides details of the project composition. For each of the four cities the
number and type of contracts are reported and are further supported by details of before
and after construction component characteristics. Datails of the training programmme are
reported in Appendix B



18
3. PROJECT ORGANISATION
The P.M.U.
3.1. The Urban Roads Directorate of Bina Marg (Binkot) and the fQur project cities Wer
givn responsibility for project implementation. Bina Marga set. up a Project M
Unit (PMEJ) for overall management and control of the project. The PMLI %as to include
represenatives of the Ministry of Communication (responslble for public ransportaion,
trfic regulation, and trasport planning) and Ministrv of Home Affairs (responsible for
local government) as nell as the Ministry of Public Works. In fact, Ministrial
participation was achieved throughout the project duration, in the form of regular liaison
and meetings with departmental representatives. In addition to overall project
management, the PMU was to implement training programmes and provide technical
advice and support to the cities. City Project Coordination Offices (CPCOs) were created
to coordinate project actvities at the city level and to report on all aspects of the project to
the PMU. At the city level, BAPPEDA (development expenditure planning) were made
responsile for preparing five vear road investment plans for each city and for annually
updating these plans.
3.2. The Bina Marga portions of the physical works of the project (that is, constuction
and major periodic naintenance on elements of the national road system within the
project cities) were to be done by contracts admiisted by each citys Bina Marga project
manager. In the event, Bina Marga did not second project managers to the cities but rther
assigned managers directly for the Bina Marga contracts. This was an ordinary procedure
for Bina Marga, and it permitted rapid implementation of the project. This direct
implementation by a central agency produced indirect benefits to the local govenments
through involvement of the Kanwils. Practically speaking, they were central projects
carried out in the local areas.
3.3. Some of the phvsical works in the city-administered portion of the project were also
to be done- by contract, under the supervision of a (newly appointed) city project manager,
and sorme were to be done by force accounL An important goal of the project was to
devolve to the cities much of the responsibility for general trnsport management To do
this the project would have 1o enhance local skills, particularly in overall transport
planning, tmffic management. and road maintenance and rehabilitation. One scheme for
promoting these skills was to form specialised institutions within local governnents.
Some of the staff of the local public works departments were to be assigned to two newlv
established specialised units: a traffic management unii and a road maintenance unit.
These new L1i1S were to manage the relevant components of this project, with suitable
technical assistance. Thus they would rapidlv gain valuable on the job training in a large
programme of works. Thev would also be given periodic formal training in short courses
designed and managed by the PMU, particularly in areas that Nvere quite new. such as
overall road transport planning, and traffic management beyond the level of traffic
engineering.



19
3.4. As d2SCussed above, project organisation and staffig were recognised as crucial to
the success of the project. Although Bina Margas urban road directorate was only crewed
in 1984, the importance of urban transport development and management was recopised
and ackmowledged as specialised disciplines. Accordingly, the transfer of technology was
considered to be an essential aspect of this project. The decision to create a PMU with
heaw foreign and local consultant inputs was a pnudent approach to insuring the
achievement of the projects physical targets and training goals. This approach to projcct
orgnisation at the Bina Marga (central) level was successful as far as most of the
centrally managed physical works were concemed. Oveall mnagement of the prcject by
the PMU was good, helping to insure timely completion of works. Although the small
share of training resources scheduled for Binkot staff were diverted to city staff training,
Binkot achieved most of its own training goals. On the job training in project managent
and in financial monitoring was extensive and effcctive. Except for normal turnover, the
staff wio worked on tis project are expected to remain in Binkot to use the trAiing If
firther projects of this type are done, Binkot could probably undertake overall project
andinistration successfuill with less assistancC.
The C.P.C.O.'s
3.5. The attempted institutional changes in the cities were generallv not carried out in time
to contribute to the physical works of this project. This was due to the time required for
the legislative process to establish a suitable legal framework for the proposed
institutional development. A new CPCO was to oversme a newly nominated city project
manager (and a seconded Bina Marga manager) and help to direct the necessary inputs to
all of the local participants in the project, including two newly established technical units.
In their infancy these city institutions *ould be attempting to manage physical wrs that
were a multiple of the ordinary workload of the city in the road tansport sector. Early in
project implementation it became clear that the proposals and agreements to form new
institutions in the cities were confusing to the cities themselves. Quarterly Progress
Reports noted that cities questioned the need for the specialised units (for trffic
engineering and for road maintenance), and they were confused about the lines of
authority among the proposed CPCO, the local project manager, Bina Marga project
managers, the chief of the local public works department, and other city officials. The
CPCOs wvere established after minor delay, but they were not staffed adequately to carry
out their intended project functions. Furthermore their lines to other project entities
(project managers, the PMU, Bappeda) were lines only of information and advice. ITey
had no authority to instruct. Once their staffing had improved, the CPCOs were useful as
project monitoring offices. Two of the cities finallv established specialised Road
Maintenance Units toward the end of the project period, and it is likely that other cities
will forn such units.



20
3.6. This project provided upgraded tools for road maintenance (see Appendix A for
details) and also trained road maintenance staff. This specialised training was effectively
targeted to those working in maintenance in spite of the delay in forming specialised
institutions. This training was apparently quite effective, resulting in better planning and
design for maintenance and in the adoption of some improved maintenance techniques.
One can expect that most of the trainees will continue to work in road maintece aftcr
this project is over, providing long run benefits to the cities. The cities did not form
Traffic Engineering Units during project implementaEion. The training component for
tWansport management and development was directed at staff who were expected to be
assigned to TEUTs. This training proved to be successful in that it was weU presented and
wvell received by the participants. However, due to the delay in establishing the TEULs it is
inevitable that some of the participants will not be assembled to work in these units.
Although the legislation governing the establishment of the TELrs was delayed, the PMU
continued to support these finctions through, direct assistance, on the job training and
inter-departmental coordination.
3.7. The intention was for the local Bappeda to produce five year investment plans for the
road sector and to annually update them. in practice, the plan and the first annual update
was prepared by the local Bappeda with assistance from the PMU and technical assistance
in the cities. The cities expected that additional financial and human resources would be
made available for this function, but this assistance was diverted to other priorities.
Consequently, subsequent annual updates were not carried out. The cities, therefore, did
not entirely fulfill the project covenant concerning planning, and gained limited
experience during the project on the broader questions of overall road ransport planning.
However, it should be noted that there has been a general improvement in the
understanding of transport planning and traffic management by city personnel.



21
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.1. The World Bank loan was negotiated in April 1987, signed in May, and made
effectie in August with no undue delays in the process. From the beginning of the project,
progres on major physical works was rapid. Iher were few delays in. the city-
administered civil works and an accelerated performance on the Bina Marga ones, as Bina
Marga took maximum advntage of a fortuitous availability of Rupiah funds. Three years
after loan effectiveness, Bina Marg had completed over 95% of its planned physical
works under the project This consisted of the construction and major maintae work
on elements of the national road system in the iowns, and it comprised just over half of the
total project The project ctics also progressed more rapidly than planned on road
consuzion and major reconstuction and rehabilitaion. Trafric eneeng and
mainennce achieved reasonable momentum after carly delays. By September of 1991,
four yas after project effectiveness, overall (CiTy plus Bina Marga) disbursements wer
rnning more than a year aheai of the SAR's disbursement schedule (Tabiarc4.1 compares
the SAR disbursement schedule to actual disbwsements for selected dates). By mid-1992,
Bina Marga and the project cities had practically completed all physical works.
4.2. The costs of major phvsical works (the first two items in paragraph 2.3 above) have
grneralvy becen similar to the appraisal estimates. Tables 4.2 and 4.3 compare the SAR
estimates to final project costs for these components. Overall the project costs were 4.1 %
less than expected for major road construction and reconstruction, and 3.7% less for
comidor improvemcnts. Both of these comparisons are figured net of components added or
subtcted after appraisal.
4.3. Whilst the progress of implementation was spectacular there were ocasional
problems with the mnner in which some projects were implemented The realisation of
some early road projects was in physical conflict with the construction of other
infrastucture in the same right-of-way. These problems were overcome as liaison
procedures were established with other agencies.
4.4. Th'r were relatively few seious problems arisine from scheme implementation and
their incidence diminished as the Project progressed. This is atnibuted to a combination of
good contract documentation and the progressive improvements in contract supervision
and monitoring.
4.5. Th=re were few sisnificant variations from project plans for major components. Of
these the most important was a major cost saving (Rp 3.7 billion) on construction of th-
Sungkono road sub component in Surabaya, most of which was used for Two additional
improvements to short segments of roads (Aditvawarman and W. Corridor 1) near the
centl buess district of Surabaya. A short section (1.96km, Rp 1.1 billion) of road
construion was omitted from the Semarang sub projects and incurned no expenditure.
These deviations from project plans do not mateially affect the overall cost compaisons.
Therefore the conclusion can be drawn from Tables 4.2 and 4.3 that Bina Marga and the
project cities finished the major physical works of the project slightly below budget



22
4.6. Road rchabilitation and  Intenance, comprsing first, that portion of the five year
maintenance programmes of the project cities that was done on a contract basis, and,
second, procurement of equipment for routine maintenance done on force account, was
planned in detail after apprisal. For contract maintenance, the PMU selected sub
components, from shoppmg lists submitted by the cities, using a scoring system invohling
17 indicators (e.g., the physical condition of the road, trffic density, the use of the road by
public transport) For the selected components, the PMLU prepared detailed designs and
bills of quantities. The sub components were aggregated into a few contracts, about five
per city per year. The PMU then sent the contracts to the cities, through the CPCOs, for
bidding and contract award. The bidding process was similar to that for major civil works,
with approval by Bina Marga and a no objection procedure by the World Bank for the
larger project packages. In general, bids reflected reasonable unit costs, and contracts were
let and implemented with only minor problems. There wer occasional misu ndin
between the PMU and the cities based on the fact that cities submitted their requests for
maintenance sub components with only the barest attempt to estimate cost Particularly in
the early months of the project, the cities were then surprised, and their maintenance
planning was disrupted, when the costs of the sub components as designed by PMU
substantially exceeded rough initial estimates.
4.7. The civil works associated with traffic enginenn and signalisation were handled as
described above for contract maintenance, and for this there were only minor problems.
Equipment purchases for maintenance, and purchases of signaling sets for traffic
engineering, were handled through a combination of ICB, LCB, and prudent shopping
procedures as agreed wvith the World Bank during contract appraisal, with minor agreed
changes among procedures duing implementation.



23
Table 4.2
ROAD CONSTRUCTION
ESTIMATED COSTS (SAR) ANI] ACTUAL COSTS (Rp.million)
City/Component                   SAR Estimate    Final Cost              Saving
Surabava:
Dupak                                4006               2850                 1156
Sungkono                            8014                4266                3748
Adityawarman                          (a)               1412               -1412
W. Corndor                            W                 1316                -1316
Subtotl              12020                9844                2176
Bandunz:
LTngpr SW                           4133                2701                 1432
LiugerSEI                            3178               6487                -3309
linkarSE2                            4160- (k                               416
Subtotal              11471               9188                2283
Miedan:
Sisinumanaraja                       IS87               1374                 513
Bakti                                1551               1116                  435
Halat                                2341               1304                 1037
Aksara                               1617                1629                 -12
Sutrisno                             1097                933                  164
Sisiganar4aa                         1893               1331                  562
Patiwz.aI                            3235                1318                1917
Juandu                               1150               1246                  -96
Subtota               14771              10251                4520
Semar-anE         
Kaligawe I                           4074                1315                2759
Siliwnge 2                           1109                 (c)                1109
BanjirBridge                         1060                2318               -1258
North Ring I (3km)                     (e)               2845               -2845
North Ring I (3.81an)                                     (d)
Subtotal               6243               6.78                 -235
TOTAL                   44505              35761                 8744
Nb. The above values exclude land costs.
a. Tis sb component was added to the project afier negofitions.
b. Included with Lingkar SEI to fonm a sigle project
c. This sub componet was dropped after appraisal
d. Included imdi North Ring Rad above to form sinle project of6.61im
Value is paTiaBly estimated on basis of incomplete coDnact
c Detai1 not spodbed in SAR
Sources:
I/ SARA=m=x 1, Tablec 5-8



24
Table 43
MAJOR CORRIDOR IEPROVEMENTS
ESTIMATED COST (SAR) AND ACTUAL COST (RP. million)
City/Component    SAREstimate              Final Cost             Sayig
Surabava
East-West Link        4640                  2493                 2147
Bandune
Kiaracondong 1        1197                   711                  486
Siliwangi              (a                    709                 -709c)
Subtotal      1197                  1420                  -223
Medan
Warni andBridge        1741                 1718(b)                23
Sisingam.             1390                  1389                   i
Subtotal      3131                  3107                   24
Semar-an
Corr. I W              892                  606                   286
Corr I E              1061                  916                   145
Corr 1 NW             1052                  995(b)                 57
Corr I NE             1089                  564(b)                525
Corr 4                 152                   85                    67(c)
Secondary Roads          (a)                  402                  402(c)
Subtotal      4246                  3568                   678
TOTAL         13214                 10588                 2626
Nb. The above values exclude land costs.
a. Tlhis sub component added after appraisal thus not included in cost estimats.
b. Parmally estimated on the basis of incomplete contracts.
c. Post appraisal sub components not included in saving calculations.
Sources: SAR Annex 1, Tables 5-8; RCITP Final Quarterly Progress Report



25                                    Table 43
MAJOR CORRIDOR IMPROVEMENTS
ESTIMATED COST (SAR) AND ACTUAL COST (RP. million)
City/Component    SAR Estimate             Final Cost              Saving
Surabava
East-West Link        4057                  2493                  1564
Banduna
Kiaracondong 1        1069                   711                   358
Siliwangi              (a)                   709                  -709tc)
Subtotal      1069                  1420                  -351
Medan
Warni andBridge        1568                  1718 (b)              -150
Sisineam.              917                  1389                  -42
Subtotal      2485                  3107                  -622
Semarang
Corr. 1 W              725                  606                    119
Cofr I E              1110                  916                    194
Corr I NW              332                  995(b)                -663
Corr1f NE             1138                  564(b)                 574
Cofr4                   81                    85                   -4 (c)
Secondary Roads          (a)                   402                  402(c
Subtotal      3386                  3568                  -182
TOTAL         10997                 10588                  409
Nb. The above values exclude land costs.
a. This sub component added after appraisal thus not included in cost estimates.
b. Partially estimated on the basis of incomplete contracts.
c. Post appraisal sub components not included in saving calculations.
Sources: SAR Annex 1, Tables 5-8; RCUTP Quarterly Progress Report No. 21



26
5. PROJECT RESULTS AND CURRENT ESTIMATES OF BENEFITS
5.1. To outline the general physical achievements of the project as they nowv appear on the
ground will help to provide an understanding of project benefits. In each citv the project
improved the traffic flow and safety of the Central Business District (CBD), and selected
road segments and intcrsections outside the CBD, by implementing a series of trff'ic
engineering improvements including signaling, marking, signing and some civil wvorks
such as channeling and sidewalk construction. Also in each city, the project financed
several maintenance contracts, provided funds for maintenance equipment, and trained
maintenance staff. The contract-financed maintenance improved the general condition of
roads in project cities (a high percentage of important roads were repaired). Equipment,
training, and technical assistance improved routine non-contract maintenance. The
discussion below will focus on the rest of the project components, that is the road
construction and major rehabilitation investments and the part of contract maintenance
closely related to these investments.
5.2. In Bandung the "road building and major reconstruction" investments were
concentrated in a series of continuous road segments that now form a box or "inner ring
road" around the southern half of the central business district (CBD). Four arterials that
intersect this box of roads (on the way to the CBD frorn the hinterland) were improved
through major maintenance investments. The preexisting access to Bandung from the toll
road (to Jakarta and Cireson) also intersects this box. The result of this package of
investments is that traffic entering Bandung along any radial from the south, east or west,
for the southern half of the CBD, can use this new box to go around the CBD in a small-
radius circle. A vehicle from the toll road, for example, with a destination in the eastem
part of the CBD wvould enter the box road at the southwesten edge of the CBD, go around
the box, and enter the CBD near its destination. Prior to the project the traffic pattern was
for the series of southem radials to dump traffic directlv into the CBD with much of it
requiring to traverse the CBD to reach its destination.
5.3. In Semarang a new road (7 km) and improvements to a contiguous major road (7 km)
will carry traffic around the northern edge of the CBD, connecting the major road to
Surabava (northeast of the CBD) to the terminus of the Yogyakarta toll road (west of the
CBD.) This is a basic bypass function. Prior to the project, the route for a major traffic
load from the Yogvakarta toll road to the Surabaya road was directlv across the CBD. For
traffic from the toll road to the northeast quadrant of the CBD, the project roads w,ill also
serve a distributor function, allowing this traffic to go around the CBD and enter near its
destination instead of traversing the CBD from west to east.
5.4. In Surabava the roads in two corridors (1.9 km and 3.0 km) have been reconstructed.
These coridors carry traffic directlv from the middle of the old (northern) CBD and the
new (southem) CBD to the toll road and hence to the port and the hinterland. These outlet
roads allow traffic from the CBD to exit the CBD and use the toll road as a bypass. The
project also included maintenance on a continuous series of road segments from the
southem fringe of the city and the airport, directly north through the CBD to the port.



27
S.5. In Medan the project has reconstuucted roads and undertaken major trffic
engineering works on a "box" of roads around the edge of the southeat quadrant of the
CBD and has done major reconstruction work on two corridors going from the
southwestern and southeastern corners of the CBD to major inter-city roads. The box of
roads will distribute traffic from the southeastem arterial.
S.A.R. Benefits
5.6. The SAR's estimates of benefits were based on vehicle cost savings and time savings
estimates for the road construction and major corridor improvement portions of the
project. No benefit calculation was attempted for the traffic management components, but
components of that type have been shown to have very high benefits when the data needed
to quantify them are available, i.e., origin and destination data and extensive speed and
flow data throughout the network When such data and analysis resources are available the
evaluation of traffic management schemes are often best conducted by considering the
effects of each investment on traffic flows throughout the network, a model would be used
to consider "with" and "without" cases for altemative packages of investment, and would
assist the selection process of the alternatives considered. Due to the lack of resources, the
selection of traffic engincering sub components undertaken in the RCUTP was u ithout the
assistance of a model (i.e., it relied on local knowledge and engineering judgement of
deficiencies and pressure points in the system ). Generally we would expect a model to
provide a more comprehensive basis for selection, partly because a more thorough
analysis of alternatives would be available. In the case of this project, however, the budget
available for traffic engineering was well short of the very obvious needs. There is little
doubt that the sub components actually done would have been chosen by any model, given
a reasonable budget and there is little doubt that the benefits from the ones actually done
were high. The perceived risk, going into the project, was not that the wrong sub
components were chosen, but rather that the cities might implement them inefficiently. As
discussed above, implementation was satisfactory. Similar arguments apply to the
maintenance portions of this project. Backlogs were huge, the selection process was
sensible, and the projects were implemented satisfactorily. They could hardly fail to have
adequate benefits.
5.7. As discussed earlier in this section, the investments that were referred to in SAR as
"New Road Construction and Widening" and as "Corridor Improvements" are also roads
central to the urban networks of the project cities. In the SAR's justification of these
investments a benefit analysis was undertaken in terms of increased capacity, incrcased
speed, and the resulting decrease in vehicle operating costs per Km driven. Benefits were
estimated as the sum of vehicle operating cost savings over the years of the project's life.
Value of passenger time saved w-as calculated separately, based on the same speed and
flow estimates. It is clear that the assumptions of these calculations were simplistic in that
Ihe area of component influence was limited to the component and its adjoining links.
This may well have under-reported the actual benefits. However, it is not uncommon to
observe that the components and surrounding roads are already heavily travelled and the
increased speeds, which are assumed to persist even during daily peak traffic periods for
the lifetime of the roads, will probably not last long at all. The conclusion is that where
resources and circumstances allow large expensive urban road expenditures, they should
be evaluated on the basis of their effects throughout the network.



28
5.8. Lacking the time and resource to do a network analysis for this report (and the
"without case would be difficult to un4ertake) we have chosen to quantify the economic
rate of return using the method employed in the SAR (discussed in para 5.17) and to look
for common sense indicators of benefits. These indicators are positive. The New Roads
and Conridor Improvements are in each case building up to a significant tramc *volume
soon a*fer completion They were well selected as diversion roads for traffic from their
surrounding networks. Network effects are obvious and benefits in the netwrk are
apprently substatia. The case of the Bandung box around the southem half of the CBD
is illustative of this point The major benefits to be expected are those arising from the
diversion of traffic from the CBD. In fact, these benefits are clear and obvious to
experienced observers; trffic conditions in the southern portion of the CBD are much
improved and the reduced vehicle operating costs and time costs of getting around in that
part of the CBD are attibutable largely to the box of roads around it The geneal safety
conditions have no doubt been improved by this component. Sidewalks, covered drains
and signals on the new roads, and improved routing v-ia the new roads away from the
pedestriai-crowded CBD, must all be contributing to safety, though no scientific measure
of the improvement is available. As in the case of traffic engineering, the New Roads and
Corridor Improvements were the surviving sub components when a much longer list of
improvements was pared down to fit within the project budget; the backlog of required
roads was clearly there, and unless really poor choices were made, the retuns were likely
to be high. All of the above does not get us closer to a quantitative benefit estimate, but
from a common sense point of view, there does not seem to be any indication that the
project choices in this component were poor.
Environmental Benefits
5.9. Although they were not major concerns during project prepartion or appraisal,
environmental considerations are now seen to be of greater importance and in future
projects environmental benefits or damage should be taken into account (The SAR
dswussion of the environment addresses resettlement from the expanded rights of way.).
In short run turms, the project has a distinctly positive environmental impact. The
resettlement programme was carried out. as planned and was satisfactory. The
environmental side of vehicle cost savings is fuel savings, hence pollution decreases.
Routing of traffic outside the most congested areas of the CBD, which the project does in
all cities, will reduce the local pollution in its most severe areas. Sidewalks, signals, drain
covering and intersection channeling, all improve the well being of pedestrians. During
project preparation, the local environmental impact of major road segments was studied,
and environmental impact statements wvere prepared. These were thorough enough to have
screened out investments that would have been grosslv damaging to their immediate
localities.
5.10. In the longer run, howvever. manv of the projects environmental gains will be
dissipated as the cities become congested again at the higher level of tmffic made possible
by this project. This will generally be true of projects of this type. Bottleneck relief, taffic
_growth and new congestion, bottleneck relief, then more growth, and so forth, is truly a
vicious cycle in environmental terms, even though each project, like the present one, can
claim short run environmental benefits. The environmental answers lie in such measures
as traffic management and control, public transportation, and planning to minirise the



29
need for vehicle movem#nt andtO   minuse the envionment cOst of the aeCusCy MP
br commnuters. Although this project envisioned some steps forvrd in suategic planning
(which would naurally address environael issues) thee plans were the OneS thet f
by the wayside in project implementation. The Traffic Engimeering Units wcre inted to
provide the focus for traffiC planning and management as well as traffic  en ng
proper. As previously discussed, delays were experienced in enablishing these uuts The
cities produced an annual update (after the fit year) of the five year ivesmet
programme, and although environmental considerations wer tken into accout they were
not a significant feature.
5.11 iI order to reflect on the environmental and social impact of the project, dicussions
were held in the four cities to assess perceived impact. The findin  are reported in a
separate document, appended to the report entitled 'Evaluation of RCUTP with a Vievw to
Future Project Preparation'. Specific groups were targeted and quesioned about the
prqject. These comprsed local government agencies, pTvate taspot opas, prte
ector commercial establishments in the vicinity of the improvem  and road user
iimews.
Mlain consensus was:
* Working relationships between city planning agencies had improved
* Additional road infirauctire has
 increased travel opportunities and improved accesbiity
*  promoted improvement oppommities for CED through congesion relief
led to a noticeable increase in Public Transport service provision.
* Noticeable drop in driver behaviour standards associated with icreased road
capacity and usage is regarded as long term problem.
* Bandung records show significant reduction in accident rate, attributed'fo RCUTP.
e Land compensation too low but subsequently offset against increased land values.
5.12. In summary, the environmental benefits from this project are immediate and the
costs delayed, so the effect on the economic rate of retur, could all benefits and costs be
obseved, would probably be positive or neutral. Another project of the same type,
however, should be required to take due accoant of environmental considertions;
bottleneck relief to otherwise uncontrolled congestion is simply enironmentally unsound,
and it will have higher environmental costs the more often the cycle of bottleneck relief
and recongestion is repeated, at ever higher levels of raffic.
Benefit Sostainability
5.13. Most of the benefits from the investments in this project are apparently sustainable;
that is, the physical works of the project can be prescrved for their design life with normal
maintenance, and they will fulfill their desigm functions. This judgment is supported by
the projects careful process of contract supervision, and the general lack of major
Problems concering physical works that surfaced during contract supervsion. The single
iRtant exception appears to be the box road in Bandung. For this project component,
!Oflstruction quality proved to be less than desirble and has resulted in significant surface
,rackilg. Supervision wvas adequate, in that the project manager and the CPCO were
iuformed Promptly and in detail about the problems of construction as they emerged. The



30
iain reaon can be amibuted to,a general lack of experience, as this was one of the firt
gid pavement contracts in Izidonesia. Long term economic benefits will be less than
xpected at the time of appraisal without substantial additional expenditure Nverteless,
iis component is being heavily used and is currently yielding its expected benefits. Non
atifiable benefits are apparent in that the learning process concemning rigid pavements
Is been expedited and therefore future projects will benefit from this expcrience.
istitutional Befits
14. In general the intended institutional benefits from this project did not materialize.
ae PMU performed reasonably well in the limited function of managing civil works, but
e intended unification within PMU of the three Ministries (Public Works,
mminunications, and Home Affairs) wvho must coordinate to produce strategic transport
proaches did not occur. Although the cities borrowed money to finance part of the
iysical works and technical assistance in their respective localities, they never came to
wn" the project, in the sense of having power over and taking responsibility for the
ajor project decisions. Needed project institutions at the city level wcre not formed.
ajor parts of the project were implemented directly by Bina Marga with no city
3ponsibility. Attempts to practice routine long term planning in the cities commenced as
mnned but could not be maintained due to delays in formulating the required legislation.
.s function was subsequently fulfilled by central government directly through the PMU.
nbitions, such as promotion of city autonomy through the activities of this project, were
,moted but could not entirely be fulfilled. However, the project did significantly
atribute to the management of the institutional change process, the results of which
,re too late to directly benefit the project.
aining
5. Benefits from training were mixed. The training inputs were successful in terms of
,ject matter and delivery. Details of subject matter and phasing are presented in the
'pendix B. All courses were well received, and progress was made toward building the
al capacity to undertake training in the fature. Pre-implementation training was a key
trument in the success of the project through the training of CPCOs, local project
naeers and other senior project participants. Post implementation training inputs could
: have their full intended effect, because of the lack of established institutional slots for
trainees. at the local level. Understanding of the subject matters has noticeably
anced and permits more fruitfiil discussions betveen central and local government
mcies. Road maintenance, was particularlv successful in that improved understanding
ulted in the implementation of better working practices and methods.



*  Other Aspects             31
5.16. Studics included in this project at appraisal included project identification and
3reparation -work for another Regional Cities Urban Transport Project and further
xeparation for the Jakarm Urban Transport Project During project implementation
evra tasks were added: preparation of the urban transport components of Integrated
Jrban Infiastructure Development Programmes in five cities; a tasportation strategy
tudy for Sumrabaa; traffic management action area planning for five areas in Surabaya;
Uld the preparation of draft guidelines for traffic management studies. Most of these
.tudies will contribute. or have contributed, directly to World Bank project prepaation
nd appraisals. Further wvork on the draft guidelines for traffic management studies could
iave a substantial retum. The guidelines are practical and action oriented, and they appear
o be immediately useful for city traffic engineers/planners. They have yet to be field
-ted, however, and such testing would no doubt lead to revision and improvement. No
unds rematn for testing under this project.
he Economic Rate of Return
.17. On the basis of cost and traffic growth estimates at the time of its appraisal, this
roject was expected to have rates of return averaging 36% for road construction, and
1% for major corridor improvements. Returns to traffic engineering and maintenance
3mponents were not calculated, but they were expected to be high, as they generally are
iown to be when data are sufficient to calculate returns on such components.
.18. In order to assess wvhether the expected rates of return reported in the SAR wvere
zhieved, a series of post implementations surveys were carried out in cach of the four
ties. In view of the limitation on time and resources, the surveys were directed at
ieasuring journey times and usage on the major road construction components, see
ppendix C for details. To aid comparison, the methodology employed in the SAR has
.en adopted and all costs and benefits have been discounted to the 1985 price base.
19. Table 5.1 summaries the findings of the rate of return analysis. The average internal
te of return for these components, using vehicle operating cost benefits only, is 25%.
Ithough this is some 5% lower than predicted in the SAR it is, in economic terms, a very
.tisfactory- rate of return. Inspection of the results in each of the cities shows that
imponents in Bandung and Surabaya are either greater than or virtually cqual to the SAR
timates. The significantly lower rate of return on JI Lingkar Selatan Barat as opposed to
Lingkar Selatan Timur is primarily attributable to the higher rigid pavement costs
sociated wvith the former. In MedarL the rates of return are acceptable but in all cases
ever than the SAR estimates. This reflects a lower than predicted heavy vehicle usage
used by redistributional effects through the relocation of the bus terminal and re-
signation of the dedicated truck nerwork. In Semarang, the North Ring Road vielded a
wer but acceptable rate of return when compared to the SAR estimate. Again reflecting
: over estimate in predicted usage. Appendix D summaries the findings of the economic
aluation exercise and reports speed and usage comparisons between the SAR estimates
.d4the post implementation survev measurements.



32
5.20. Apart from the raze of retirn measurements, there arc sevei,adigiis -
toward the conclusion that. the economic return is adequate  .
areas adjacent to the improved corridors has improved noticcid;,
movement in the corridors is growing rapidlv, and trafric moveum=e ini
to the improved corridors has improved noticeably. Third, costs tuzl, o  b
lower than expected Fourth. works were completed as plznned, auaeg
planned functions. Fifth, in general the benefits of the project will aparff;bi
sustainable, with normal maintenance.



33                                 -   ~ TABLE 5.1
ECONO1IC RATE OF RETUR-N SUMMARY
COmPONENT                                                       MR.
(VOC Only)                     (VOC Only)
PCR                  SAR                 PCR
SURABAYA
JI. Dupak                        35                   24                  31
J1. Sungono                      46                   26                  38
BANDUNG
JM. Lingkar Selatan Barat        73                   32                  42
31. Lingkar Selatan Timur        20                    17                 18
:EDAN
3. Sisingamangaraja I            19                   48                  16
J. Bakti                         18                   28                  1S
Jl. Halat                        (a)                   27(c)             (a)
Il. Sutrisno                     (a)                   15(c)              (a)
JB. Sisinamangaraja'             23                   60                  17
J. Pattimura I                   18                   28                  16
J. Juanda                        31                   34                  27
JI. Aksara                       30                   21                  27
SENERAiNG
JI. Kaligawe I + Bridge          32                    1 8                28
North Ring Road (b)              18                   28                  16
Average                 30                  25
(a) Under Construction
(b) Includes North Ring Road I and II
(c) Excluded from average for comparison purposcs.
SAR Staff Appraisal Report, February 1987
PCR Project Completion Report



34
6. CONSIDERATIONS AND LESSONS FOR THE FUTRE
6.1. The SAR puts forward suggested guidelines conceming the form and content of a
future project. However, these guidelines were conceived more than five veas ago when
political, financial and technical considerations were very different to those of today.
Accordingly, such guidelines must be reviewed in the light of today's climate. This project
has clearly demonstrated that it is rich in lessons that can be beneficially adapted for
future application. The purpose of this section is to present some of the principal
considerations, resulting for the experiences of RCUTP, that influence the form and
approach to future urban transport investment initiatives. For further amplification of
these issues and other related matters, the reader is referred to the report entitled
'Evaluation of RCUTP With a View to Future Project Preparation'.
6.2. This projects results have been convincing. It produced the products it set out to
achieve, disbursed quickly and will, in most cases, sustain benefits for sometime into the
future. Experience has shown that frustration may impend if a future project attempts
major changes in local government establishments on the basis of devolution of limited
project powers, responsibilities, and loan funds to the cities. It is not too soon to take this
lesson to heart, since current project preparation work, foresees a project, with similar
atempts at institutional changes in cities. The desired changes are undoubtedly closer at
hand now that the legislative framework is almost in place, but are they close enough to
involve in a future project?
6.3. The importance of giNing attention to the ordinary detail of project arrangements has
been highlighted by this project. For example, quality control did occasionally present a
problem This was due to a number of reasons not least being the involvement of too many
participants in the contracting process which strained the line of control of the Project
Manager. However, Bina Marga has now adapted the traditional Supervision Engineer's role
in the construction process. He no longer reports to the Project Manager but direct to the
RBO/PBO and this will substantially strengthen the monitoring and control process.
Additionally, Super%ision Consultants are now more thoroughly vetted and their
performance monitored as part of a performance ranking system. Project Managers are now
given more extnsive training than previously. These positive developments have been
directly influenced by this project and should have a lasting effect on Bina Marga managed
projects.
6.4. This project has demonstrated that complex transport programmes involving multi-
year, multi-project components can be planned and successfully implemented in Indonesia
by some government agencies. The RCUTP, with its strong city focus, exposed both
central and city govcrnments to financial and technical planning, project management and
control. No agencies had previously been involved in such a comprehensive exercise.
This Project's experience clearly established that, for a number of imnportant reasons, the
cities are not yet capable of adopting the full range of responsibilities which this type of
project demands. Consequently it would be premature to consider future similar proiects
having cities as their focus of control and mayors as the major representatives of their
clients. On the other band, Dir. Gen. Bina Marga has over 7 years continuous and direct
experience of the Project. It has developed substantial management capabilities and has
demonstrated that with technical assistance it can undertake and successfully execute such
a project.



35
6.5. Nationally, there was and remains an acute shortage of Local Government personne
with significant traffilc or transport experience. This is not simply a question o.
recruitment from other sectors. The shortage is endemic. Future projects should no
underestimate the degree of technical assistance cities may need. Technical assistancc
alone will not establish the lasting competence which those cities need. Substantial
manpower development and training programmes will also be required.
6.6. An important finding of the Project is that the devolution of transport responsibilities
to competent city authorities remains the most important single requirement for improved
urban transport. Experience shows that Local Governments are extremely reluctant to
adopt and commit resources to fulfilling responsibilities which are not supported by the
appropfiate legislation. That legislative framework was not available during this Project.
and as a result the benefits for certain aspects of the work were not fully realised
However, the physical works programmes in all four cities were successfully implemented
within budget, within programme and, with few exceptions, are likely to sustain their full
expected benefits. This demonstrated that the risks of twinning institutional development
goals with physical transport improvement goals in the one project need not result in
failure if either one is not fully successful. As the full legislative framework for devolution
is now almost in plaee, a future Project should incorporate and address both topics with
some confidence.
6.7. The RCUTP evolved as a predominately highmay project Integration and co-
ordination with agencies representing non-highway aspects of urban transport was
primarily achieved via the PMU liaison procedures. This appeared to be effective.
However, future projects are likely to have a broader technical base in terms of transport
modes and comprehensive city planning. This should be reflected in the organisation of
the Project, possibly with a wider agency representation in the PMU.
6.8. Also, city participation in the RCUTP was initially slow. This was partly due to the
absence of the necessary institutional framework. It was also partially due to the cities
playing a relatively minor role in the planning and management of it. As the devolution
process evolves, future projects will become increasingly city orientated and again this
should be reflected in the Project's organisation.
6.9. The RCUrP is regarded as a successful project It produced the physical works it set
out to, disbursed satisfactorily and should realise the majority of benefits that are expected
of it. Although replication in other cities suffering from a historic underfunding of
transport projects may be worthy of consideration, experience has shown that in rapidly
growing cities a short-term, traffic engineering approach to transport management can
overlook the insidious development of serious infrastructural problems. In most cities, if
not all, strategic transport routes are being subsumed bv the expanding urban area. This
results in regional traffic being engulfed by urban activities, the urban road hierarchy
losing form and effectiveness, and environmental deterioration.
6.10. The studies conducted in this Project (notably for Surabaya and those in the support
of the -IUP) demonstrated the benefits of a strategic planning approach to city transport
development. This also applied to short term transport management work where, without
an overview of the strategic situation, it vas difficult to determine the proper function of a



36
road section and hence the principles behind its solution. in other cases the solution to a
local traffic problem was not to be found at that location but elsewhere in the network.
6.11. Todays cities are much larger and their problems more complex than when the
RCUTP commcenced. The approach to tansport management necessarily changes as cities
develop and as the demands for transport increaingly exceed what can be realistically
provided. transport policy moves from demand satisfaction to demand prioritisation to
traffic demand/restraint. As it changes so does the planning methodology, the types of
solutions and the investment programmes. It is considered that the satisfaction of the
unrestrained demands for travel is no longer a viable approach to transport in the biggest
Indonesian cities. The need to apply more sophisticated and co-ordinated measures to
address the increasingly complex tansport is clear.
6.12. The emergence of the IU1DP as a co-ordinator of city investments and programmes
is a welcome move towards comprehensive development planning. It is one that Bina
Marga has directly supported through the RCUTP, and in many other cities through its
cvry day work, because it concurs with Bina Marga's "Urban Roads Development
Strategy", particularly in its aim to achieve economic efficiency within the transport sector
and between it and other development sectors. The IU1DP process is still developing and
as yet it does not cover all cities, nor all planning horizons. Additionally it very much
focuses on investments and budgets as opposed to the plans and schemes behind them. As
tranSport is by far the most costly and most difficult of infrastrutue to establish once
development has taken place, it would not be unreasonable for road development agencies
to take an early and leading role in this strategic planning work, particularly where the
IDP  process is not yet sufficiently well established.
6.13. Because this Project was largely pioneering in its scope and scale, many changes to
its form and content had to be made during its preparation and implementation. This uas
achieved without losing sight of its goals by adopting a flexible and pragmatic attitude to
it. The IBRD, and Consultants fully supported the Government of Indonesia in this
approach. This could bave been more readily accommodated within the Project had their
been a greater provision for contingencies, particularly with regard to technical assistance
contracts.
6.14 The conclusion is that this project has been a great success and has produced a
satisfactory rate of return enhanced by the prc-project backlog of transport investments.
For the reasons discussed above, fitre urban road investments can no longer be justified
solely on the basis of sustained speed improvements. Similarly, future projects can only be
deemed acceptable if long run environmental effects are demonstrated to be positive or
neutral. Although their efficacy cannot be demonstrated by the project being reviewed, the
use of relatively simple and robust models to analyze urban transport alternatives, within a
firamework that takes account of the verv rapid growth expected in the size and population
of cities, would allow future projects to be evaluated with much greater confidence.



37
PART I]I: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 2      Project Timetable
Table 3      Planned and Actual Completion Dates of Components
Table 4      Project Costs
Table 5      Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 6      Project Financing
Table 7      Direct Benefits/Key Indicators
Table 8      Road Maintenance Equipment
Table 9      Project Studies
Table 10     Economic Benefits
Table 1 1    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 12     Staff Inputs (under preparation)



38
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit Title          Purpose               Year of          Status
Approval
Loan 2816-IND      Infrastructure Development      1987       Completed
Urban Sector Loan   and Institutional
Development
Loan 2932-ND       Road construction,              1988       Active
Jabotabek Urban    improvement, rehabilitation
Development        and maintenance, traffic
Project            management and institutional
development in Jabotabek
metropolitan region



39
Table 2: PROJECr TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle       Date Planned              Actual Date
Identification                                     October 1984
Preparation                                        April 85 - April 86
Appraisal                                          May 96
Negotiations                                       April 87
Board Presentation                                 May 87
Signing                                            May 87
Effectiveness                                      August 87
Project Completion                                 April 1993
Loan Closing             October 1994              December 1993



40
Table 3: PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES OF COMPONENTS
3A: ROAD CONsTRUCriON
Agency                        SAR Estimate         Actual       Actual
City/road           financially   Type of      Length        Start of    Length  Start    Finish
Link name           responsble  improvement    (kn)        contuction    (kn)
Surabaya
Dypal                            BM           W           1.85         1987/88      1.85    4/87      3/89
Sungkono                         BM           W          2.96          1987/88      1.85    6/87      2/89
I. Adityawaarman                 BM           W        (Not specified at Appraisal)  0.63    4/88     2/89
J. Kura/Ciliwung                 BM           W        (Not specified at Appraisal)    1.74    4/88   2/89
JI. Dupak/Tanjung Sari           BM           W        (Not specified at Appraisal)    1.30    12/89    11/90
Jn. Tanjung Sari/Banyu Urip      BM           W        (Not specified atAppraisal)    2.05    1289    11/90
Subtotal                             4.81                      9.70
Bandung
Lingkar SW                       BM           W          3.76          1987/88      3.72    4.87     10/90
Lingkar SE I                     BM           NR         1.87          1989/90      1.95    4/88      9/90
Lingkar SE 2                     BM           NR         2.68          1989/90      2.61    4/88     12/90
Jn. Cikawao                     CllY          w        (Not specified at Appraisal)    0.42    7/91   1/92
J1. Ciateul II                  CITY          W        (Not specified at Appraisal)    0.65    7/91   1/92
Subtotal                             8.31                      9.35
Medan
Sisingam I                       BM           W          1.22          1987/88      0.50    5/88      7/89
Bakti                           CITY          W          1.10          1988/89      1.80    7/88      3/90
Halat                           ClTY          W          1.55          1989/90      1.80    2/91      5/93
Aksara                           BM           W           1.80         1990/91      1.80    5/88      7/89
Sutriano                        CITY          W          1.20          1989/90      1.18    5/91     12/92
Sisigam 2                        BM           W          1.25          1988/89      0.65    5188      7/89
Pattimura 1                      BM           W          2.30         '1989/90      1.25    6/87      2/88
Juandu                           BM           W           1.14         1990/91      1.10    5/88      9/89
Pattimura IA                     BM           W        (Not specified at Appraisal)    1.03    5/88   9/89
Subtotal                            11.56                     10.86
Semarang
Kaligawe I                       BM           W          2.64                -      2.19    3/88      5/89
Siliwange 2                      BM           W          1.96                -     (Funding Priority Diverted
to North Ring Road)
Banjir Br.                       BM           W          0.96                -      0.07    5/87    12/89
North Ring Rd (10 components)    BM.         NRJW                                  14.41    5/87      3/92
Subtotal                             4.60                     16.67
Total                                                                   46.54



41
Table 3B: CORPDo IMPROVEMS
A-e              SAREidd              AWal          Actal
City/rA             finaay        Lagt          Stat of     Logo      Stit      Finish
Link ne                            (kb)                      (km)
Suabays
Eat-West link                  Crl'Y        2.41         1988189       0.52    10/88      12/89
Subtotal                                    241                        0.52
Bandung
Coar. Kia-e 1                 CITY          1.50        1987/88       1.51     6/87       3/89
Siliwm* Timm                   CITY       (not specifid at Appraa)     0.72     8/88      1089
Siliwangi Bridge               CnY        (od specified at Appisl)     0.03    12/88      10/89
Subtotal                                    1.50                       2.26
Medan
Cori. Wani + Br.               cIrY         0.85         1987/38       0.90     6/39       5/91
Corr. Suing                    cnTY          1.20        1987/88       1.14     S/87       3/89
Subtotal                                     .05                       204
Sanrang
Conr. 1 W                      CIY           1.30        1987/88       1.91     4/87       2/88
Conr. I E                      cirY         2.33         1989/90       6.37     6/88      12/89
Cnr. I NW                      crTY         1.35         1988139       1.91     5/89       1/90
Corr. 1 NE                     CrIf         2.39         1989/90       1.55     5/89       3/90
Corr. 4 (part)                 CITY         0.47         1987/88       -
Subtotal                7.U4                      11.74
Totd                             13.80                     1656



42
Table 3C: TRuATC MANAGEMENT
City        1987M8   198/8   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   Total
Medan
Junction AA(km)         -         -      5.03     3.70      1.60    10.33
signs                1,260        -      104       357       33    1,754
Rd. Marking (sq m)    3,700       -     2,565    8,652    4,400   19,317
Bandung
Junction A-I. (km)    5.44     4.79      0.89     0.40      1.60    13.12
Signs                 542         -         -        -       70      612
Rd. Marking (sq m)    4,417   10,000    1,100    2,778    3,648   21,943
Semarang
Junction A.I. (km)    5.93     2.20         -     0.75        -      8.88
Signs                   -      192          -       94        -      286
Rd. Marlking (sq m)    9,500    1,850   7,276    1,442        -   20,068
Surabaya
JunctionAI. (km)      3.72        -      1.11     3.20     3.60    11.63
Signs               2,270         -      235         -        -    2,505
Rd. Making (sq i)    4,000        -     8,200    8,990    1,640   22,830
Total
Junction A-I. (km)   15.09     6.99      7.03     8.05     6.80    43.96
Signs               4,072      192       339      451       103    5,157
Rd. Marking(sqim)   21,617   11,850    19,141   21,862    9,688   84,158
Junction A:I. - Junction Approach Improvements.



43
Table 4: SUMMARY OF PROJECr CosTs
Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate
Local  Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
(Sm)    (Sm)              (Sm)      (Sm)
Civil Works         24.5    29.1      53.6    28.1      34.7     62.8
Equipment             1.9     5.7      7.6     1.0       3.1      4.1
Consultant Services  4.6      7.9     12.5     3.8      12.7     16.5
and Training
Unallocated          6.1      8.4     14.5     0         0        0
Total               37.1    51.0      88.1    32.9      50.5     83.4



44
Table 5: LOAN DISIURSEMENTS: CUMULATiVE ESTIMATID AND AcruAL
(USS million)
Fiscal Year     Appraisal Estimate    Actual Amount         Actual as %
of Estimated
1987
June 1987
1988
September 1987              0.40               0.02                   5
December 1987               0.80                0.48                60
March 1988                  1.65                8.69               520
June 1988                   2.50               12.04               482
1989
September 1988              3.75               14.35               385
December 1988               5.00               17.41               348
March 1989                  7.00              23.89                341
June 1989                   9.00              30.14                334
1990
September 1989             11.70              30.27                259
December 1989              14.40               32.16               223
March 1990                 17.30              33.91                 136
June 1990                  20.20               38.58                191
1991
September 1990             23.10              39.70                 172
December 1990              26.00              42.82                 165
March 1991                 29.05              45.05                 155
June 1991                  32.10              46.18                 144
1992
September 1991             34.60              47.64                 138
December 1991              37.10              47.57                 128
March 1992                 39.20              48.82                 125
June 1992                  41.30              49.88                 121
1992
September 1992             43.00              49.88                 116
December 1992              44.70              49.72                 111
March 1993                 45.80               50.12                109
June 1993                  46.90               50.12                107



45
Fiscal Year     Appraisal Estimate   Actual Amount        Actual as %
of Estimated
1993
September 1993            47.90              50.12                105
December 1993             48.90              50.52                103
March 1994                49.70               50.52               102
June 1994                 50.50               50.52               100
1994
September 1994            50.75              50.52                 99.5
December 1994             51.00               50.52                99



46
Table 6: PROJECr FINANCING
(US$ milion)
Bank loan
Agency          Local finds           To                To             Total
BINA MARGA    Project Cities
as grant         as loans
BINA MARGA                18.6             18.4              0.0              37.0
Bandung                    1.9              0.0              2.4               4.3
Medan                     4.8               0.0              6.0              10.8
Semarang                  3.6               0.0              4.4               8.0
Sumbaya                   4.0               0.0              5.0               9.0
BINA MARGA (TA)           0.0              14.3              0.0              14.3
Total             32.9              32.7             17.8              83.4



47
Table 7: DlRECr BENEF1TS
(Completion of Physical Targets)
Component                      SAR                 Actual
Civil Works
Road Construction (km)                    29.28                  46.54
Corridor Improvements (km)                13.80                   16.56
Traffic Management
Junction Access Improvements (km)    Detail not specified        43.96
Signing (signs)                    Detail not specified          5,157
Road marking (sq m)                Detail not specified         84,158
Road Maintenance
Periodic/Rehabilitation/Upgrading (km)  Detail not specified     183.22
Equipment
Signalized Junctions                     143                       107
Road Maintenance Equipment              See Table 8         See Table 8
Training
Course categories                          9                     8
Workshops                                 4 cities            4 cities



Table 8: RoAD MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
(Completion of Physical Components)
Type of equipment                     Bandung             Medan             Semarang           Surmbaya              Total
SAR   Actual      SAR   Actual       SAR   Actual       SAR   Actual         SAR   Actual
Pneumatic roller                     I       -          I      -           I      -                               3        -
Tandan roller                        -      I           I      -           I      -           -      -            2       1
Pedestrian roller                    -      8           -      7           2      5           4      7            6      27
Towed asphalt kettle                 3      -           -      4           2      -           -      2            5       6
Grader                               -      -           -      -           I      -           I      -            2        -
Wheeled excavator/loader             I      -           -      -           I      -           I      1            3       1
Tramtor, bucket, blade               2      -          2       -           2      -           2      -            8        -
Street sweeper                       2      -          2       -           2      -           2      -            8
Concrete mixer (large)               2      -          2       -           2      -           2      1            8        I
Concrete mixer (small)               2      3          3       7           2      5           3      3           10      18
Concrete vibator, 4 hp               2      2          2       4           2      4           3      2            9      12
Tamper vibrator plate, 4 hp          3      7          4       7           2      6           5      4           14      24                       00
Air compresor                        -      4           1      2           2      2           2      2            5       10
Lubrication jeep                     I      -          I       -           I      -           I      -            4        -
Skly calker                          I      I          I       -           I      -           I      -            4        -
Pedestrian road marker               2      1          2       2           1      1           3      2            8       6
Generator and lights                 I      I          I       -           I      I           I      1            4       3
Electric welder                      1      2           1      1           1      1           1      1            4       5
Acetylene welder                     I      -           I      -           I      I           I      1            4       2
Waterpump                            3      4          4       6           3      6           5      5           15      21
1-ton trailer                        2      2          2      6            2      1           2      1            8      10
Automatic Turfic counter           NS       -         NS       I         NS       -         NS       4           NS       5
Vibrating roller 2.S tn            NS       3         NS       -         NS       -         NS       -          NS        3
Bitumen distributor                NS       -         NS       I         NS       -         NS       -          NS        I
Petrolbreaingbammer                NS       -         NS      4          NS       -         NS       6          NS       10
Circular saw                       NS       -         NS       3         NS       I         NS       6          NS       10
Cable detector                     NS       -         NS       I         NS       -         NS       3          NS        4
Watertank                          NS       -         NS       -         NS       -         NS       I          NS        I
Asphalt recycler and mobile reheater  NS    -         NS       -         NS       -         NS       I           NS       I
(Pachman)
NS - Not specified.



49
Table 9: PRoEcr STuDEs
Description               Purpose           Status          Impact
(As defined at
appraisal)
Bandar Lampung,           Prepare for a future   Completed  Outputs used to
Pontianak, Denpasar,      regional cities urban              identify physical
Palembang, Ujang Pandang  transport project                  works components in
Feasibility and Project                                      IUIDP projects
Identification Studies
Institutional Review      Develop proposals to   Completed  Proposals for project
strengthen managerial              management and
and technical capabilities         road maintenance
in project, traffic and            implemented during
road maintenance                   project
management in project
cities



50
Table 10: EcoNoMIc BENEFITs
Component              FYRR                        ERR
(VOC Only)                 (VOC Only)
Actual            SAR               Actual
Surabaya
JI. Dupak                       35                24                 31
i. Sungkono                     46                26                 38
Bandung
11. Lingkar Selatan Barat       73                32                42
nI. Lingkar Selatan Timur       20                17                 18
Medan
n1. Sisingamangaraja I          19                48                 16
Ji. Bakti                       18                28                 15
JI. Sisingamangaraja II         23                60                 17
11. PattimuraI                  18                28                 16
JI. Juanda                      31                34                 27
Jl. Aksara                      30                21                 27
Semarang
Ji. Kaligawe I Bridge           32                 18                28
North Ring Road*                18                28                 16
Average                30                25
*     - Includes North Ring Road I and II
SAR  - Staff Appraisal Report, April 1987
VOC  - Vehicle Operation Cost.



51
Table 11: COMPLIANCE WriT LOAN COVENANTS AND CONDITIONS
Refernce to    Target Date
Loan         (if any)         Curret
Brief Description of Loan Covenant   Agmnt  for Compliance         Status             Remarks
Enter into a Subsidiary Loan        3.03(a)                    Full Compliance
Agreement with each of the Project
Cities, under terms and conditions
approved by the Bank
Cause financial records and accounts  4.01(a)                  Full Compliance
to be maintained by the Project Cities
and other deparanents or agencies of
the Borrower in respect of the Project
Submit auditors' report to the Bank  4.01(b)    Not later than    Full Compliance    Delays in production
(i), (ii)    nine months                    iitially epeienced
after the end of
each fiscal year
Auditors' report to contain a separate  4.01(c)                Full Compliance
statement supporting the reliance of  (iv)
procedures and controls with respect
to withdrawals based on Statement of
Expenditure
With respect to Loan withdrawals    4.01(c)    At least one year  Full Compliance
made on the basis of statements of  (ii)-iv)    after receipt of
expenditure, retain all records for           the audit report
inspection by the Bank                         by the Bank
Maintain in Binkot a Project     -Sched. 5.1                   Full Compliance
Management Unit responsible for the
supervision of the execution of the
Project
Cause each Project City to maintain a   Sched. 5.2             Full Compliance
CPCO, staffing to include a Chief,
separate Project Managers for Bina
Marga and City Project components
and a staff accountant
Through Bina Marga enter into     Sched. 5.3                   Full Compliance
agreements with the Project Cities and
the Provinces establishing a road
classification system defining
financial arrangements as follows:
- Each Project City responsible for all
maintenance of roads apart from
periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation of primary roads which
is the responsibility of Bina Marga;
- Detailed maps showing road
classification



52
Refec  to    Target Date
oan          (if any)          Curent
Brief Descripon of Loan Covenant        e       r Copliance         Sta                Remas
Cause the Project Cities to carry out a   Schad 5.4
review of arrangements for planning
and provision of uan transport
services including traffc e
and road maintenance
- Frnish to the Bank for commen                April 1988      FWl Compuce
the results of the review,
- Prepare an action plan satisfactory to       Oct 1988         Full Compliance    Completd March
the Bank                                                                          1989
- Carry out such action plan                                   Partial Compliance  Abec  of legislation
Cause each Projet City to prpare  Sched 5.5
and funish to the Bank for commae,
after reviow by the PMU, a proposed
rowling 5-year urban trnnsport
invesment prgram, not later than
December I in each year:
- first program                                Dec 1987         No Compliance     Lack of legislation
- first revision                               Dec 1987       PFl Copliance    and associated humnn
- second revision                              Dec 1987        Partial Compliance  resources and fiuding



53
Table 12: STAFF INPUTs
(under preparation)
Stage of Project      Planned            Revised           Actual
Cyde              (weeks)           (weeks)
Through Appraisal                                              109.6
Appraisal through                                                9.6
Board Approval
Board Approval
through Effectiveness
Supervision                76.0             109.5              97.5
Completion
Total                                           217.6



I



IERD 27177
f_?      THAILAND                                                                                                                       W                                                            INDONESIA         '_
I ,_  s  X                                                                                                         PHILIPPINES                                                         REGIONAL  CITIES
sot_   t '  s   ot-                      URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
|                                                                                                                                                           7 \  RNIj\//E    Prog.c, Cd..
S    >_a    t q   MALAYSIA         --\                               RUNEI I
Ro,I11-d.
<  ()         ) vu^LA Lu_lr     /                                    - \-                                                                                                                                     p I  R,.ro
/                   ,                 MALAYSIA          )                                                        -olond.
J :4 SINGAPORE                                                                                                      - '                                                         - -I          I
\ r g * - > ,~~~~~~~~~CA                                                   0    A  AV  r  A  N/ f                  C      o     999
-**.-~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ *12Ji S/                                                                                                                   -                                   -
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S                                                         ('MA/rRAWSN SI/ I,                                  /PfA  9 .'.  A        -   
a     .  f t/%4 I  k-
,-,,      _                                                                        SU/AA'iS/ '._  _:- 's;_  .   ..   $   r   '  '  -  S/J.               \         ><                                  1I1A
-  ;;,c,_ n                        W                    A                   -                  7                  1b,   ,,  ,, t.                P      >                         -
~~~~~~~~0                                                                    i        -                 _.                        _  
l<Ws~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'.-                                                4e ~A9I        JUM SA                        -                N-        F         C~
- -~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ' ~ ~  ~   ~   ~









IMAGING
Report No:       15245
Type: PCR



