D_ ~of
>eeWol Bankd
FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
Report No. 6605-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
April 27, 1987
East Asia and Pacific Regional Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the petformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 1987)
Currency Unit   = Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00         = Rp 1,650
P.p 100         = US$0.06
Rp 1 million    = US$606
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)      = 39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)   = 2.47 acres
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAPPEDA             -  City Development Planning Board
BAPPENAS            -  National Development Planning Agency
Bina Marga          -  Directorate General of Highways in the Ministry of
Public Works
CPCO                -  City Project Coordination Office
DLLAJR              -  Directorate of City Traffic and Transportation in the
Ministry of Communications
GOI                 -  Government of Indonesia
INPRES              -  Central Government Grant to Local Governments
Jasa Marga          -  National Toll Road Authority
KIP                 -  Kampung (urban community) Improvement Program
MHA                 -  Ministry of Home Affairs
MOC                 -  Ministry of Communications
MOF                 -  Ministry of Finance
MPW                 -  Ministry of Public Works
O&M                 -  Operations and Maintenance
Perhubungan Darat  -  Directorate General of Land Transport in the Ministry
of Communications
PPD                 -  State-owned bus company in Jakarta
PWD                 -  Public Works Department
RCUT                -  Regional Cities Urban Transport Project
REPELITA            -  National Five-year Development Plan (Repelita IV, 1984-
89; Repelita V, 1989-94)
SATLANTAS           -  National Police
SEKNEG              -  State Secretariat on Procurement Matters
URD                 -  Urban Roads Directorate
VOC                 -  Vehicle Operating Costs



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Indonesia.
Beneficiaries:       The Cities of Bandung, Medan, Semarang, and Surabaya#
Amount:              US$51.0 million equivalent.
Terms:               Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
On-lending Terms:   Part of the proceeds of the loan, the equivalent of
US$18.0 million, would be on-lent by the Government to the
project cities for 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at a 1OZ p.a. fixed interest rate. The Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:       The proposed project is lccated within the municipal
boundaries of the four largest cities in Indonesia outside
of Jakarta. The principal project objectives are to:
(a) implement a high priority program of infrastructure
improvemeat measures aimed at relieving traffic congestion
and promoting transport efficiency in the project cities;
(b) strengthen city government capabilities in the
planning, implementation, and maintenance of traffic and
transport facilities and services; (c) strengthen central
government capabilities to (i) prepare national policies
and technical standards for urban transport, (ii) prepare,
appraise and supervise future urban transport projects,
and (iii) provide assistance to cities in the development
of urban transport programs; and (d) establish a process
of coordinating the investment activities of central,
provincial, and city government agencies in urban
transport infrastructure, so as to formulate multiyear
urban transport programs in the nation's principal
cities. The project includes financing for: (as major
road construction; (b) comprehensive corridor improvements
(involving an array of traffic-oriented improvements
requiring less than full road reconstruction); (c) city-
wide traffic engineering works; (d) road rehabilitation
and maintenance; and (e) technical assistance and training
in support of institutional strengthening, project
implementation, and future project preparation.
Risks:               The principal project risk is the capability of the
project cities to implement and maintain project
components assigned to them under the project. These
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoization.



- ii -
components, in aggregate, represent substantially larger
investments in urban transport than made by the cities in
the past. They also entail the cities moving into areas
such as traffic engineering where they do not have much
prior experience, and the further development of staff
skills, especially those of engineers and technicians, to
accomplish greater efficiencies. In order to reduce this
risk, the project cities are being requested to appoint
selected key staff before the loan can be declared
effective; and substantial advisory services would be
provided to the project cities, especially for traffic
engineering, road maintenance, and construction
supervision.
Estimated Costs:                                   Local    Foreign   Total
US$ million -
Road construction                                 13.3      16.2     29.5
Corridor improvements                              3.4       4.2       7.6
Traffic engineering                                5.2       8.8      14.0
Road rehabilitation and maintenance                4.5       5.5      10.0
Training                                           0.4       0.4       0.8
Technical assistance                               4.2       7.4      11.6
Base Cost                                    31.0      42.6     73.6
Physical contingencies                             2.2       3.0       5.2
Price contingencies                                3.9       5.4      9.3
Total Project Cost /a                        37.1      51.0     88.1
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                                -       51.0     51.0
Central Government                                16.2        -      16.2
Project cities                                    15.5        -      15.5
Provinces                                          5.4        -       5.4
Total                                       37.1       51.0     88.1
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank FY        1988    1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Annual           2.5    6.5   11.2   11.9    9.2    5.6    3.6    0.5
Cumulative       2.5    9.0   20.2   32.1   41.3   46.9   50.5   51.0
Rate of Return: 36X.
Map: No. 20229.
/a   Includes identifiable taxes arnd duties estimated at US$3.0 million.



INMDOESIA
REGXONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
.  THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR .....................,.......o*oo1o*o
A.  Urbanization Trends e.ee......e........e *e co.e c                 1
B.  Urban Transport Sector ........,...,............                   1
C.  Urban Transport Priorities3.. .......................              3
D.  Bank Experience and Lending Strategy......................e        6
II.  THE PROJECT..          . ..        .    .       .    ..      .6
A.  Project Origin and Formulation............................         6
B. Projectives ....................................                    7
C.  Rationale for Bank Involvement,...........................         7
D.  Project Components. ...*,.*.,......*....*.*.......*..   *...       8
E.  Description of Project Components ........................         9
III.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ................ ... .. ....... ....      13
A.  Project Costs..... ...... .**.*.  ....o..e..o..c                  13
B.  Financing   .lan                                                  13
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IANAACEMM ETT.........................        16
A. Implementing Aragmn ...n..                                         16
B.  Implementing Agencies.............................     17
C.  Implementation Scbedule............................ .   .         19
D.  Procurement and Disbursement...,..,.....,.....,........***        20
E. Land Acquisition........0.. ................. ...*.... ..o         22
F.  Accounts and Audits.,......   .......      c.e.o...... q.....     23
G.  Project Monitoring and Progress Reporting.....,...........        23
This report is based on findings of a July-August 1985 pre-appraisal mission
and a May 1986 appraieal mission. Messrs. Richard Podolske, Takehisa Iizuka,
and Richard Barrett (consultant) participated in both missions. Mr. Lawrence
Hannah assisted the appraisal mission. Ms. Felicia Quarcoo assisted in the
preparation of this report.



-ii -
Page No.
V.  CITY FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .................,....,,...                   24
A.  Current Financial Condition of Project Cities.o.o.*****e..       24
B.  Project Impact on Local Government Finances*.....e*...,e.,       24
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS..*O.*......O..O.....O...o....         26
A.  Project Justification.........e            ........... ....... *o  e  26
B. Economic Evaluatione......e................................o     27
C.  Urban Poverty Impact                              *              28
D.  Environmental Impacto.............. ....... ....*  0.e ..,o      28
E*.                   60.0....... ................ ............ ..   29
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION..    ...**.*.*...oo*o...*.     29
ANNEXES
1. Project Cost Estimates
2. City Traffic and Transport Profiles
3. Details of Physical Components
4. Guidelines for Road Maintenance Component
5. Terms of Reference for Training Component
6. Summary of Technical Assistance
7. Projected Annual Investment Programs by Agency
8. Agency Responsibilities for Project Implementation
9.  Committee and Agency Staffing
10.  Project Implementation Schedule and Key Monitoring Indicators
11. Procurement Guidelines
12. Disbursement Schedule
13. Land Acquisition
14. Financial Statements of Project Cities (Actual and Projected)
15. Analysis of Economic Benefits
16. Guidelines for a Future Regional Cities Urban Transport Project
17. List of Documents in the Project File
CHARTS
1. Organizational Structure for Project Implementation
2. Organizational Structure of the Directorate General of Highways (DGH)
MAP
Location of Project Cities (IBRD 20229)



INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
I. THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Urbanization Trends
1.1       Indonesia is the fifth most populous country in the world, with an
estimated 1985 population of over 162 million. The urban population is esti-
mated at 40 million or approximately one quarter of the country's total popu-
lation, which is modest by middle-income country standards. However, urban
population growth over the next two decades is likely to be very significant.
By the year 2000 the urban population is projected nearly to double to about
76 million or about 36Z of the total national projected population of over 200
million. Almost half (482) of the urban population resides in the 9 urban
agglomerations with over 500,000 persons in size. These cities in aggregate
are growing at a somewhat faster rate (4.1% annually during 1971-81) than the
remaining smaller urban areas (about 3.5Z annually), and are expected to
absorb the bulk of urban population growth over the next two decades. This
concentration of population in larger urban areas is significant, as certain
types of urban services--notably urban transport--experience more severe prob-
lems which are more costly to resolve as city size increases.
B. Urban Transport Sector
1.2       Urban Transport Conditions.  Traffic conditions have been deteriora-
ting in Indonesian cities over the past decade, caused in large part by an
almost 152 annual increase in the number of motor vehicles. The effect of
this increase has been particularly acute in and around major cities where
most motor vehicles are concentrated. At the same time there has been a
serious degradation of the road network. A recent survey of 64 cities and
towns by the Directorate General of Highways (Bina Marga) concluded that about
172 of the main urban road network is structurally unstable (liable to physi-
cally fail in the next five years even with routine maintenance), and 322
geometrically inadequate (unable to carii the projected REPELITA IV traffic
without extensive repeated congestion).-   Typically, the main traffic arteri-
als are too narrow to accommodate present traffic levels, and the structural
hierarchy of the road networks is usually poor, with an incomplete system of
secondary arterials or nonexistent ring roads to distribute the traffic.
These deficiencies, in combination with increased traffic volumes, cause tra-
vel delays, higher vehicle operating costs, and higher accident rates. Traf-
fic engineering, as a relatively low-cost tool for improving traffic flow, is
1/   See Mid-Term Progress Report of Advisory Team for the Urban Highway
Investment Program, Subdirectorate of Urban Highway Planning,
July 1983. (This study did not include greater Jakarta where, in terms
of geometric inadequacy, the situation is much worse.)



-2-
poorly understood and consequently not used to any significant effect. Poor
road maintenance is also a significant factor in reducing road capacity and in
increasing vehicle operating costs. Due to several years of neglect, major
rehabilitation of roads and sidewalks in the central business districts and
along radial roads is necessary in most major cities.
1.3       Sector Organization,  At the national level, prime responsibility
for the urban transport sector rests with the Ministry of Public Works,
through its Directorate General of Highways (Bina Marga), and the Ministry of
Communications, through its Directorate General of Land Transport (Perhubungan
Darat). The former is responsible for the detailed planning, construction and
maintenance of the national road network, and the latter for planning all
other transport modes, and for the regulation and control of all land-based
transport modes, including all forms of public transport. A separate, inde-
pendent National Toll Road Authority (Jasa Marga) was eitablished in 1978 to
finance and manage all urban and interurban toll roads. However, Bina Marga
has substantial influence on Jasa Marga's toll road program through the
planning and design of its facilities. Perhubungan Darat controls the state-
owned bus companies in the principal cities (PPD in Jakarta and Damri in the
principal regional cities). Responding to the need for greater attention to
emerging urban transport problems, both Bina Marga and Perhubungan Darat have
recently created urban directozates in their organizations. Other national
agencies significantly involved in urban transport are the national police
(for traffic enforcement), the Ministries of Finance and Home Affairs (for
administration of grants and other financial assistance to local governments),
and BAPPENAS, the National Development Planning Agency (for the planning and
programming of nationwide investments in urban transport).
1.4       At the city level the municipal public works department is the agen-
cy responsible for the design, construction and maintenance of the secondary
and local road networks; the local branches of the national police are respon-
sible for the control and regulation of traffic; the provincial level arm of
Perhubungan Darat (DLLAJR) is responsible for the provision of traffic control
devices (usually shared in practice with city level public works departments,
which are also usually responsible for operation and maintenance of traffic
signals) and public transport regulation. City planning departments are
responsible for road planning, and the City Development Planning Boards
(BAPPEDAs) are responsible for the preparation of sectoral investment pro-
grams. In some cities there are minor variations in these broad categories of
responsibilities.
1.5       The road law of 1980 clarified responsibilities among the various
levels of government for different classes of roads but, in practice, many
links within urban areas have not yet been formally classified and correspond-
ing responsibilities agreed to by the affected central, provincial, and city
government agencies. The lack of clarity in jurisdictional responsibilities,
combined with limited financial resources at the local governmental level, has
resulted in Bina Marga's assisting cities in upgrading and maintaining parts
of the network which are not formally part of its responsibility. Moreover,
the cities are not well organized to provide traffic management and road
maintenance services. Beyond financial and organizational problems, city
staff' development in the provision of urban transport facilities and services



- 3 -
is very weak and can be corrected only by concerted mid- to long-term training
and staff development programs. Recognizing that the local authorities are
unlikely to have sufficient technical and financial resources to meet the
needs in the sector, Bina ?arga will need to play an important role in assist-
ing local governments in the planning, design, and funding of urban transport
facilities and services for the near- to mid-term. All of these deficiencies
have been addressed in the design of the proposed project.
C. Urban Transport Priorities
1.6       Financing Investment in Urban Transport. The substantial backlog of
urban transport infrastructure needs, combined with the rapid pace of urbani-
zation and the even faster increase of motor vehicle ownership, has not been
met with adequate government investments in urban transport. Furthermore,
such investments to date have come principally from the Central Government,
In recent years direct central government spending on urban roads has amounted
to about 30% of all such investments, and central government grants to local
(provincial/city) government units, another 50%. Locally generated (provin-
cial/city) revenues have contributed only about 20%. In view of the increas-
ing need for urban transport investments and limitations on central government
resources, it has become clear that (a) cities will need to contribute sub-
stantially more of their own resources for urban transport purposes, and (b) a
higher proportion of central government funding for urban transport will need
to be in the form of loans to cities as opposed to direct investments or
grants. The proposed project financing plan is designed in line with these
emerging principles. Government has taken a number of promising steps to
assist local governments in increasing their financial participation in deve-
lopment: (a) a new property tax law was passed in late 1985 which is intended
to simplify tax administration and increase local government development
funds; (b) a facility to permit cities to borrow for qualified urban
development projects is being established with the aid of international
experts in municipal finance; and (c) legislation is being drafted for
revision of the central and local governmental financial relationships and
local tax laws.
1..-      Planning and Programming of Urban Transport Investments.  There is a
need to substantially improve the quality of government planning and program-
ming for urban transport infrastructure and services to assure an improved
allocation of the limited funds available. Particularly notable is the lack
of investment program coordination among Bina Marga, Perhubungan Darat, and
the city governments, all of which pursue their programs in urban areas with-
out the benefit of a unified transportation plan and prioritized investment
program. The principal city governments in the nation need to take responsi-
bility for comprehensively planning all urban transport investments within
their corporate boundaries, including those investments to be funded by pro-
vincial and central government agencies. This task will need to center on the
city-level BAPPEDAs, with technical inputs from the city public works and
planning departments, as well as from the relevant provincial and central
government agencies. Given that road-relate' works comprise the dominant
share of total urban transport investments, and that the Central Government
will continue to provide a substantial share of this funding, either through
direct construction of facilities or grants to cities, it will also be



- 4 -
important for Bina Marga to develop its urban roads planning and programming
skills both to direct its own investments and to provide technical planning
assistance to city governments. The development of both city level and Bina
Marga transport planning and programming capabilities and the coordination of
urban road investments is a prime objective under the project. As a basis for
accomplishing this objective, the projec:t cities will annually prepare rolling
five-year urban transport investment programs, with the assistance of the
Urban Roads Directorate of Bina Marga as needed, which will be sent to the
Bank for review and comment. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the cities will annually prepare and furnish to the Bank by December 1 of
each project year, rolling five-year urban transport programs, commencing on
December 1, 1987.
1e8       Toll Roads.  Government's ambitious national toll road program,
which concentrates principally on limited-access routes leading to and
by-passing major cities, has amounted to at least one fourth of the total
(urban plus rural) road investments in the nation over the past five years,
and has cost over three times the amount Bina Marga has spent on other (non-
toll) urban roads. While these investments will undoubtedly improve inter-
urban and by-pass travel around cities, this approach is not likely to be the
most cost-effective means of dealing with urban traffic problems. These
investments are very costly in relation to other potential investments and, in
many cases, will accommodate only a small percentage of total traffic in some
urban areas. While the toll road approach is appealing from the perspective
of potentially financing these facilities "off-budget" through direct road
user charges, most of the expenditures to date have been from either direct or
indirect central government subsidies. Faced with a constraint on available
funds, Government has recently indicated its intention of undertaking a new
approach toward financing toll roads by requiring all new roads of this type
to be financed either through use of private sector funding (equity participa-
tion and/or borrowing) or the use of internally generated Jasa Marga funds.
Beyond the matter of scale and methods of finance, design standards and orga-
nizational matters associated with the toll road system also require atten-
tion. This matter is complex and extends beyond the urban transport sertor.
A review of the toll road sector is included in a Bank transport sector over-
view report currently under preparation and expected to be completed in the
next few months. An understanding has been reached with the Government that
discussions on toll road concerns would be useful, and it is expected that the
Bank sector report will provide the framework for such dialogue. The pro-
gramming of the toll road system development in the project cities will be
carefully monitored under the project as part of the annual rolling five-year
investment programs described in para. 1.7.
1.9       Upgrading Local Government Capability.  Indonesian cities need to
develop their institutional capabilities in the delivery of urban transpor-
tation infrastructure and services in parallel with the need to devote more
financial resources to the sector. Particularly important functions requiring
development are transport planning, traffic engineering, and road maintenance.
The development of staff capabilities, especially engineers and technicians,
needs to be given top priority in meeting these functional needs. Beyond
staff development, the organizational structure for providing these functions
is too diffused and needs to be rationalized and consolidated in order to be



addressed properly. The upgrading of local governmental capabilities along
the lines described above will be a major objective of the proposed project
(see paras. 4.6-4.8).
1.10      Public Transport Policies.  The Government has moved over the past
several years to replace privately run regular bus services with state-owned
and subsidized services. This has been done in part to improve the poor
quality service provided by the private sector, and in part to keep fares low
for students and the urban poor. The shift has been significant, although the
dominant proportion of public transport service is still provided by the pri-
vate sector through a wide array of services including mini-buses, motorized
three-wheeled vehicles, and taxis. In 1978 PPD (the state-run bus company)
operated 30% of all regular buses in Jakarta. By the end of 1983 it had taken
over 24 private bus companies that had been unable to remain viable in the
face of government-controlled low bus fares, and over 97% of large buses in
Jakarta were operated directly or controlled by Government._/  Another state-
owned bus company (P.T. Damri) provides services with about 500 buses in 8
regional cities. In addition, Government is currently in the process of in-
troducing publicly owned and operated mini-bus services to an additional 15
cities. The total cost of government subsidies for public transport has been
significant. For example, central government spending in the sector, prin-
cipally in the form of capital grants to PPD during the first four years of
REPELITA III (1979-84) amounted to Rp 160 billion, or 15% of total spending on
urban services by all levels of government. In the current tightly con-
strained budgetary situation, it would be appropriate to seek ways of reducing
such subsidies. In this regard, in January 1987 the Government increased bus
fares by 33% in Jakarta and 20% in other cities. Another recent promising
development has been the completion during October 1986 of a National Public
Transport Policy Study that outlined in preliminary form a set of policies and
actions that could lead to the supply of viable and efficient urban public
transport services which meet the needs of the public at minimal cost to
Government. This report has provided a good basis for continuing the policy
dialogue. An understanding has been reached with the Government that the
directions of Government policy include increased efficiency of public
transport enterprises, appropriate development of the private sector role, and
reduction and improved targeting of subsidies. Preparation of a detailed
policy agenda and action plan are expected to be supported through the pro-
posed Jakarta Urban Transport Project, currently under preparation.
2/   After PPD took over, fares were raised substantially in order to improve
PPD's financial position. But the company continued operating at a loss
and was unable to expand to meet growing demand. The one remaining
private bus company allowed to operate full-sized buses in Jakarta--
Mayasari--has regained its market share and operates 550 buses as opposed
to 1,150 for PPD. Overall, the private sector currently provides about
two thirds of total public transit service in Jakarta.



D. Bank Experience and Lending Strategy
1.11      The Bank has developed an extensive knowledge of the urban sector
through 11 urban and water supply projects and nine road projects financed
since 1969. Of these, eight have been completed. Overall, the institutional
and development objectives of the projects have been met. Equally important
has been the success of project and sector work in assisting the Government in
formulating its overall program and policies for the sector. Many of the con-
cepts developed under various Bank projects--particularly those related to
Kampung (urban community) Improvement Programs (KIP), sites and services,
water supply programs, and road maintenance programs--have been incorporated
by the Government in its National Five-year Development Plans. Studies
supported by the Bank and others during this period have helped in the diagno-
sis and strengthening of local governmental fiscal and institutional capaci-
ties, subsectoral investment and operation and maintenance (O&)) programming
policies, and in sector finance and cost recovery. Drawing on this experi-
ence, an Urban Services Sector Report (No. 4800-IND) was prepared in 1984; it
examined the longer-term issues in the sector and proposed a number of areas
where policy and institutional reforms are needed. Among the difficulties
experienced in both urban and road projects to date have been: (a) an overly
centralized structure resulting in inefficiencies; (b) construction delays
mostly due to a weak local construction industry; and (c) poor maintenance of
existing infrastructure. These experiences have been considered in the design
of the proposed project.
1.12      Bank lending in the urban sector to date has been aimed at helping
the Government to plan and implement an expanded program for the delivery of
basic urban services. A key objective of the Bank's involvement has been to
assist the Government in the formulation of its overall programs and policies
for the sector. An Urban Sector Loan, which is being proposed separately,
would advance several of these programs and policy objectives, and is designed
to be complementary to the proposed project in areas of planning, infrastruc-
ture classification, and delineation of agency responsibilities. The proposed
project represents an extension of these objectives to the urban transport
subsector. The findings of the Bank's Urban Services Sector Report high-
lighted several key issues in the transport arena which the proposed project
will begin to address. The proposed project, in particular, would attempt to
strengthen the role of the cities in preparing, implementing, and maintaining
urban transport services and infrastructure. An additional urban transpor-
tation project centering on Jakarta, which is at an advanced stage of prepara-
tion, would further advance these objectives.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
2.1       Background.  The proposed project emerged out of discussions held
with government agencies as part of Bank missions during 1981-83, leading to a
Bank identification mission during March 1984. Because of the complexity of
the central and local governmental coordination required, and due to the
comparative weaknesses of cities in the provision of urban transport services,



- 7 -
it was decided to limit the project to the four largest cities in the nation
outside Jakarta--Bandungg Medan, Semarang, and Surabaya. The project was
prepared with the assistance of consultants over a two-year period and was
appraised during May 1986.
2.2       The Project Cities.  The project cities have an aggregate (1985)
population of 6.8 million, or about 20X of the total urban population of the
nation. Three of these are located in Java, the most densely populated of che
Indonesian islands. Bandung is the capital of West Java and a major center
for higher education and industry. Medan is the capital of North Sumatra and
an important port and center for oil and gas exploration. Semarang is the
capital of Central Java and an important harbor.  Surabaya is the capital of
East Java and a major port. All four cities have airports serving their re-
gions with frequent service to Jakarta. (See Annex 2 for further details on
population, vehicle ownership, and traffic and transport conditions for these
cities.)
B. Project Objectives
2.3       The principal objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a) implement a high priority program of measures aimed at improving
traffic and transport infrastructure conditions in the project
cities;
(b) develop city professional and technical capabilities in the
planning, design, implementation, and maintenance of transport
facilities and services;
(c) develop central government agency skills in (i) providing technical
assistance to cities in planning, designing, implementing, and
operating and maintaining their urban transport facilities and
services, (ii) developing national policy guidelines and technical
standards for urban transport, and (iii) preparing and appraising
future urban transport projects; and
(d) establish a process of coordinating the planning and programming of
central and local government agency investments in urban transport
infrastructure and services, so as to develop rolling multi-year
comprehensive urban transport investment programs in the nation's
principal cities.
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.4       Given the rapid growth of motor vehicle ownership over the past
several yearo, there is an increasing need to address existing and emerging
urban transportation problems--most notably traffic congestion and accelerated
road infrastructure deterioration--especially in the nation's principal
cities. These urban transport problems have, up to the present, been ad-
dressed principally by direct central governmental planning and investments in
cities with minimal city involvement. Moreover, the cities have not been
encouraged to assume substantially more responsibility in the planning,



- 8 -
financing and implementation of their own urban transport facilities and ser-
vices. The proposed project, which would be the first Bank-assisted urban
transport project in Indonesia, would fundamentally alter the current situa-
tion by substantially increasing city capabilities end responsibilities in all
these areas. This approach is consistent with the Government's objective of
devolving more development responsibilities to local governmental entities.
Consequently, the project would serve as a logical extension of the Bank's
experience in the previous urban and transport projects and build on recent
sector work concerning the p-ovision of urban services, all of which have
featured central-local governmental relationships. The Government and the
Bank hope that this project will serve as a prototype for the joint planning,
financing, and implementation of urban transport programs and projects in
other Indonesian cities.
D. Project Components
2.5       The project investments would address the current substantial back-
log of road infrastructure, traffic engineering, and road maintenance needs in
the cities of Bandung, Medan, Semarang, and Surabaya. The p.oject, to be im-
plemented over a seven-year period from April 1987 through April 1994, con-
sists of the following principal components:
(a) Road Construction (US$34.9 million): (i) construction of 4 km of
new road links in Bandung and Semarang, and (ii) widening or major
reconstruction of 25 km of existing road links in all four project
cities;
(b) Corridor Improvements (US$9.2 million): selected improvements to
14 km of road links in all project cities through comprehensive
measures which will involve less than full reconstruction; this
includes, inter alia, selective repaving, drainage and traffic-
engineering measures;
(c)  Traffic Engineerin  (US$17.2 million):  provision of (i) comprehen-
sive traffic improvements to the congested central business dis-
tricts, (ii) improvements to isolated intersections, (iii) traffic
signal equipment at about 140 intersections across all four project
cities; and (iv) citywide street signing and road marking programs;
(d) Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance (US$12.5 million): provision of
equipment to execute routine road maintenance works, and funds for
conducting road rehabilitation and maintenance works and related
activities for a five-year period in each project city;
(e)  Training  (US$0.9 million):  establishment of training programs,
with the principal emphasis on city-level technical and professional
staff development in the areas of transportation planning, traffic
engineering, road maintenance, and construction management; and



- 9 -
(f) Technical Assistance (US$13.4 million): consultant services to Bina
Marga and the project cities for: (i) project management, including
project accounting, conducting a city transportation services insti-
tutional study and preparation of annual traffic engineering and
road rehabilitation/maintenance programs; (ii) construction super-
vision; and (iii) preparation of future projects.
E. Description of Project Components
Road Construction
2.6       About 25 km of congested major traffic arteries will be substan-
tially upgraded in the project cities. These improvements will, in all cases,
include the widening of the existing road surface (typically to four to six
traffic lanes) to accommodate higher traffic volumes.  In most cases this will
require the acquisition of property (see para. 4.19). The links which are to
be upgraded will typically be transformed from rural cross sections with open
ditches to urban sections with improved drainage, sidewalks, and street
lights. In most cases the road base and pavement will be strengthened or re-
placed. An additional 4 km of new road links will be built to a four to six
lane urban arterial standard. Traffic engineering features (described in
paras. 2.8-2.12) and street lighting improvements will be built into all
upgraded and new road links. (See Annex 3, Table 1 for further details.)
Corridor Improvements
2.7       Approximately nine road corridors totalling 14 km across all four
project cities will receive comprehensive improvements which are somewhat less
costly than full road construction or major upgrading, but typically more
costly than the traffic management measures described below. These improve-
ments will include the following: (a) selective paving of short road sections
in disrepair, (b) widening of the road surface at major intersections, (c)
provision of central medians, (d) improvements to pedestrian facilities (such
as sidewalks and road crossings), (e) improved drainage facilities, (f) pro-
vision of public transport improvements (such as bus bays), (g) provision of
traffic signals, (h) provision of street lighting, and Ci) provision of street
markings and road signs. (See Annex 3, Table 2 for further details.)
Traffic Engineering
2.8       The measures indicated below (and in Annex 3, Table 3) are indica-
tive of the types of traffic engineering features that will be financed under
the project. They have been designed to increase capacities, improve trans-
port efficiency, and reduce accidents. Approximately 60% of the traffic
management program was appraised, with the remainder to be prepared and imple-
mented on a programmatic basis under the project.
2.9       Central Business District Measures.  The central business districts
will receive comprehensive traffic engineering treatments including, inter
alia: (a) new one-way systems, (b) extensive improvements to pedestrian
facilities, (c) traffic signals, (d) bus priority measures, and (e) parking
improvements.



- 10 -
2.10      Isolated Intersections.  Beyond improvements to road corridors and
in the central business districts, there are numerous intersections across the
project cities which will receive special treatments to improve traffic flows
and reduce accidents. These treatments will include selective pavement
widening, intersection channelization, pedestrian crossings, and provision of
traffic control devices.
2.11      Traffic Signals.  Approximately 140 intersections will be provided
with traffic signals and pedestrian crossing equipment in the four project
cities. (See Annex 3, Table 3 for more details.) These traffic signal
eystems will both replace obsolete and unreliable equipment and extend traffic
control to about 70 new intersections and crossings. Because of the technical
complexity in procuring this specialized equipment, and due to the likely
economies of scale in orderirg a larger amount of equipment for all four
project cities, the Urban Roads Directorate (URD) will be responsible for the
technical aspects of procuring traffic signal equipment on behalf of the
project cities. The contractual aspects of traffic sigaal procurement will be
handled by the Directorate of Equipment and Materials of Bina Marga (see also
para. 4.12).
2.12      Street Signing and Road Marking.  Citywide programs of road marking
(including lane delineation, turning arrows, etc.) and street signing for
traffic purposes will be conducted on a programmatic basis in all project
cities. These improvements are expected to improve traffic lane discipline
and induce other behavioral modifications which will improve traffic flow and
reduce accidents.
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
2.13      To redress the substantial backlog of road maintenance and rehabili-
tation needs, and to improve the organization and implementation capabilities
of the road maintenance function of the city public works departments, a five-
year program of road maintenance will be financed in each project city
commencing during Indonesia's FY 1987/88. Bank financing will be limited to
road maintenance and rehabilitation undertaken by contract with private con-
tractors.  Eligible items under the project would include, inter alia, road
pavements, drains, sidewalks, and street lights (see Annex 3, Table 4 for a
detailed listing of eligible items).  Road maintenance and rehabilitation
undertaken by force account will not be financed under the project.  However,
loan funds will be provided to the participating cities to procure equipment,
tools, and spare parts adequate to sustain such operations. (See Annex 3,
Table 5 for a list of equipment to be procured.) The project cities will
assume responsibility for all routine maintenance on all streets within city
administrative boundaries and for periodic maintenance and rehabilitation on
the secondary and local road systems during the project implementation
period. Bina Marga will assume responsibility for periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation of the primary road system. (See Annex 4 for more detailed
guidelines for the management of the road maintenance component.) A confirma-
tion of these understandings was reached during negotiations. To establish a
firm foundation for this division of responsibility, and to clarify respon-
sibilities for project implementation, the adoption by Bina Marga, the
affected provinces, and the project cities of a road classification system



- 11 -
(including mapping that shows the classification of all roads in the project
cities) which determines their respective fin&acial responsibilities for road
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance under the project would be con-
ditions for loan effectiveness.
Training
2.14      The main institutional objective of the project will be to improve
the technical performance of the key implementing agencies, namely Bina Marga
and Perhubungan Darat and the various city agencies involved in the urban
transport sector. This objective will be achieved through on-the-job train-
ing, which will be provided through technical assistance contracts and a
program of in-country training. The training program will be managed by a
special training unit set up under the URD. The training unit will be respon-
sible for the establishment of courses and course materials, the selection and
training of trainers, the organization of the training coursest and the
assessment of training impacts. The training unit will utilize to the extent
possible existing in-country training centers. The training program will be
carried out over a two-year period commencing during April 1988. Approximate-
ly 18 man-months of foreign consultant assistance (the training coordinator)
and 36 man-months of local consultants (training assistants) will be based in
the training unit of the URD. Further part-time assistance in the preparation
of technical training materials and in selected teaching of courses will be
provided by the yroject management advisors assigned to the URD and the
project cities.3
2.15      The main focus of the training for central government staff will be
directed towards the identification, appraisal and supervision of urban trane-
port projects and will cover such topics as project organization and manage-
ment, project evaluation and monitoring. The target groups for these courses
will be junior and middle management and will therefore mainly involve young
graduate engineers, planners and economists. The main focus of the city level
training will be on teaching the technical skills required to plan and imple-
ment road construction, traffic management and road maintenance programs.
These courses will be directed towards junior engineers and lower grade staff
involved in the day-to-day operations and maintenance of transport infrastruc-
ture facilities. Approximately 470 course positions will be provided in 10
course categories (25 courses) per annum over the two-year period. The aver-
age course length will be about 10 days and will range from 3 to 12 days.
(Annex 5 contains a detailed description of the training component.)
Technical Assistance
2.16      Advisory Services for Project Implementation.  Advisory services
will be provided to the principal project management and implementation units
for project implementation as follows (and as further detailed in Annex 6):
3/   The training coordinators will be provided under the main advisory
services contract to the URD and project cities.



- 12 -
(a) To the URD and the Project Cities for project management including,
coordination and monitoring of project implementation, setting up
and operating the project accounting system, conducting a city
transportation services institutional study, technical advice on the
procurement of traffic signal and road maintenance equipment,
assistance to the cities in the planning and implementation of the
traffic engineering and road rehabilitation/maintenance components
(about 292 man-months of foreign and 272 man-months of local con-
sultant assistance).
(b) To the Project Cities for supervision of the road construction and
corridor improvement components and the major traffic management
schemes (about 132 man-months of foreign and 1,122 man-months of
local technical assistance).
2.17      Future Project Preparation.  Advisory services will also be provided
to prepare future urban transport projects as follows (and as further detailed
in Annex 6):
(a)  To the URD for pre  ration of a future regional cities urban
transport project - involving follow-up components in the cities
included in this project and about four to six additional cities
(about 98 man-months of foreign and 180 man-months of local tech-
nical assistance).
(b) To DKI-Jakarta for continued preparation of the proposed Jakarta
Urban Transportation Project (about 44 man-months of foreign and
46 man-months of local technical assistance).
2.18      Current Status of Technical Assistance.  To ensure timely project
start-up and implementation, consultants currently in place will continue to
assist in project management and construction supervision under new contracts.
In this connection, terms of reference for all technical assistance -ontracts
for project management and implementation units and for technical assistance
in support of training under the project have been prepared by the Government
agencies concerned. These terms of reference and the schedule of these con-
sultancy services for project implementation have been agreed upon between the
Government and the Bank. For the phase I, the technical assistance is
scheduled to commence for project management advisory services in May 1987 and
for construction supervision in August 1987. Technical assistance for future
project preparation is scheduled to start in June 1987 (see Annex 6).
4/ The proposed project would include the same types of components included
in the first project plus additional emphasis on public transport
improvements and traffic enforcement. (See Annex 16 for more details on
a proposed future regional cities urban transport project.)



- 13 -
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A, Project Costs
3.1       The total project cost including contingency allowances, taxes and
duties, is estimated to be US$88.0 million, The foreign exchange component is
about US$51.0 million or about 58% of the total project cost. Land acquisi-
tion costs (including building demolition and resettlement) estimated at about
US$9.3 million are included (see Annex 13). Identifiable taxes and duties are
estimated at about US$3.0 million. Cost estimates are summarized in
Table 3.1, and detailed cost estimates are given in Annex 1.
3.2       Cost estimates are based on (a) detailed engineering designs for 502
of the road construction components and preliminary engineering designs for
all remaining civil works components (except those minor traffic engineering
and road rehabilitation works which will be developed on an annual program-
matic basis); (b) latest quotations by domestic and international goods
suppliers who have recently submitted bids for similar kinds of vehicles and
equipment; and (c) the prices of technical assistance contracts executed in
1985-86. Detailed designs and tender documents for components to be imple-
mented during the first year of project implementation are completed. Costs
for advisory services in support of project implementation, training, and
future project preparation (see paras. 2.16-2.18) are estimated to total
US$15.2 million, comprised of about 1,950 man-months of local consultants and
about 560 man-months of foreign consultants.
3.3       Base costs are expressed in April 1987 prices.  Physical contingen-
cies have been estimated at 102 for civil works and equipment. Price contin-
gencies are estimated at 10% for 1987, 5% for 1988, and 3.5S in 1989 and
thereafter on domestic costs, and at 3.0X in 1987, 12 in 1988 through 1990,
and 3.5Z in 1991 and thereafter on foreign costs. Price contingencies total
US$9.3 million or 12% of total base costs plus physical contingencies.
B. Financing Plan
3.4       Project Financing.  The proposed Bank loan of US$51.0 million would
contribute about 582 of the total project cost, or 60% of the project cost net
of identifiable taxes and duties. The loan would cover the entire foreign
exchange cost estimated at US$51.0 million. Local funds would be provided by
Central Government (US$16.2 million), by the project cities (US$15.5 million),
and by provircial governments (US$5.4 willion) to cover those parts of central
government and local government components not financed by the Bank loan as
shown in Table 3.2.  (See also Annex 7 for a summary of required national,
provincial, and city government financial requirements by year.)



- 14 -
Table 3.1:  SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Foreign
exchange
Rp billion             US$ million /a      as x of
Components                                Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   total
Civil Works
Road construction                       21.9    26.8      48.7  13.3    16.2      29.5      55
Corridor improvements                    5.7     6.9      12.6   3.4      4.2      7.6      55
Traffic engineering                      6.2      7.5     13.7   3.7      4.6      8.3      55
Road rehabilitation and maintenance    6.7       6e7      13.4   4.1      4.1      8.2      50
Subtotal                             40.5    48.0      88.4  24.5    29.1      53.6     54
Equipment
Traffic signals                          2.4      7.1      9.4   1.4      4.3      5.7      75
Road maintenance                         0.8      2.3      3.1   0.5      1.4      1.9      75
Subtotal                              3.1     9.4      12.5   1.9     5,7       7.6     75
Technical Assistance and Training
Project implementation /b                5.3     9X8      15.0   3.2      5.9      9.1      65
Training                                 0.7     0.7       1.4   0,       0.4      0.8      50
Future project preparation               1.7     2.5       4.2   1.0      1.5      2.5      60
Subtotal                              7.6    13.0      20.6   4.6     7.9      12.5     63
Base Cost (April 1987 Prices) /c   51.2    70.3    121.5  31.0    42.6         73.6     58
Contingencies
Physical /d                              3.6     5.0       8,6   2.2      3.0      5.2      58
Price                                    6.4     8.9      15.3   3.9      5.4      9.3      58
Subtotal                             10.0    13.9      23.9   6.1     8.4      14.5     58
Total Project Cost /e                61.2    84.2    145.4  37.1    51.0       88.1     58
/a   Foreign exchange rate:  Rp 1,650  US$1.00.
7T   Includes Urban Transportation Services Organizational Study for project cities.
7W   The base cost includes design and supervision estimated at Rp 4.1 billion
(US$2.5 million), and land acquisition estimated at Rp 15.3 billion (US$9.3 million).
/d   Physical contingencies on civil works are estimated at 10X of base cost.
Te   Total project cost includes identifiable taxes and duties estimated at Rp 5,0 billion
(US$3.0 million).



- 15 -
Table 3.2: FINAMCING PLAY
(TU8$ million)
Bank loan
passed on to              Local funds
Agency         Total      Central     Cities   Central
spending      financing   gov't as       as      gov't      Provincial   City
funds        required      grant       loan    budgets    budgets       budgets
Bina Narga      34.9        18.7         -        16.2       - -
Bandung          6.1          -         2.4         -        0.1            3.6
Medan           11.5          -         6.1         -        2.7            2.7
Semarang         8.9          -         4.5         -        1.1            3.3
Surabaya        12.4          -         5.0         -        1.5            5.9
T.A. /a         14.3        14.3         -          -        - -
Total      88.1        33.0       18.0       16.2       5.4           15.5
/a   Technical assistance to be administered by Bina Marga.
3.5       Flow of Funds.  For components implemented by Bina Marga, Bank loan
proceeds and government counterpart funds totalling US$49.1 million will flow
as Government appropriations (see Chart 1). For components implemented by the
project cities, Bank loan proceeds totalling US$18.0 million will be on-lent
under subsidiary loan agreements.  The on-lent funds will finance about 461 of
the total city components, with the remainder coming from city (US$15.5 mil-
lion) and provincial (US$5.4 million) budgetary resources. The provincial
government funds will be channelled directly to the project cities as
financial grants in support of the city portion of the program.
3.6       On-lending Terms.  Go'ernment will bear the foreign exchange risk,
will absorb the interest rate variation on the proceeds on-lent to the cities
at a fixed interest rate of 10X p.a. The cities would pay commitment fees on
that portion of the total loan amount allocated to them. The on-lending
period would be the same as that for the Bank loan to the Government, i.e.,
for 20 years with 5 years grace. To reduce the burden on the city governments
during the early years of the project the payment of all interest accrued dur-
ing the grace period will be deferred to the equal annual payments commencing
from the 6th year for a period of 15 years.
3.7       Agreement on the basic elements of the financing plan, including the
substantial financial participation of the project cities through borrowing of
on-lent funds, in addition to providing capital contributions, was reached
during loan negotiations. Execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the
Borrower and the project cities would be a condition of effectiveness of the
Bank loan.



- 1*5 -
IVe PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Implementation Arrangements
4.1       The project will be implemented by Bina Marga and the four project
cities. The Government's objective is to institutionalize the functions of
planning and guiding urban roads development in Bina Marga's Urban Roads
Directorate (URD) and the Directorate would be responsible for overall project
management of this operation. The director of this Directorate will be the
project director who will be responsible for the overall management and
control of the project and the chief of the financial section of this
Directorate will be the lead staff accountant for the project (see Chart 1).
This office will also provide technical advice and support to the cities and
implement the training program. (See Annex 8 for a more specific listing of
URD responsibilities.) The City Project Coordination Offices (CPCOs), which
have been set up in the four cities to assist in preparation of the project,
will be responsible for (a) reporting on a regular basis to the URD on all
aspects of project coordination and management; and (b) project coordination
at the city level. (See Annex 8 for a more specific listing of CPCO
responsibilities.)5/ Under the guidance of the CPCO, a Bina Marga project
manager and a city project manager will be responsible for implementing
respectively the national components and the city components in each city.
Both project managers will be assisted by subproject managers who will be
responsible for individual components or programs within the project. A staff
accountant in each project city will be assigned from Bina Marga staff. The
appointment of the CPCO chief and the Bina Marga and city project managers and
staff accountants in the project cities would be a condition of loan
effectiveness against all components in each project city. The project
management structure efll be assisted by committees established at both the
national - and city - government levels to facilitate coordination among
5/   The CPCO will be part of the city public works department in Surabaya and
Semarang.
6/   The national steering committee was formed in 1974 and has been actively
involved in the preparation of the Regional Cities Urban Transport
Project and the proposed Jakarta Urban Transport Project. The 16-member
steering committee is chaired by the Director General of Bina Marga and
vice-chaired by the Director General of Perhubungan Darat and the Chief
of the Bureau for Communications and Tourism in BAPPENAS. Further to
facilitate interagency coordination, a 12-member technical committee has
also been established, chaired by the Chief of Administration, Urban
Roads Directorate of Bina Marga. (See Annex 9 for listings of committee
memberships.)
7/   Local steering committees will include representatives from the Mayor's
Office, the City Planning and Public Works Departments, BAPPEDA I and II,
the local office of the Ministry of Transport's Directorate of Land
Transport (DLLAJR), the police (SATLANTAS), and the provincial-level
representative of the Ministry of Public Works (Kanwil) representing Bina
Marga.



- 17 -
affected agencies. There wili be close coordination of the activities of the
CPCO and the local public works offices, and eventually these offices would be
integrated.
4.2       While most of the project will be implemented under contracts admin-
istered by the respective Bina Marga and city project managers, an important
project objective is to develop city staffs in the planning, design, and
implementation of traffic engineering and road rehabilitation/maintenance
programs. Furthermore, since these types of components require substantial
day-to-day staff attention, the planning, design, and overall management of
these components would be handled by staff within the existing city public
works departments. Accordingly, understandings were reached with the
Government during negotiations that suitable staff within the city public
works departments would be appointed on a prescribed schedule to perform these
functions under the project (see Annex 9 for a list of proposed staff nomina-
tions). Since it is impractical to predetermine at this stage the precise
details of the traffic engineering and road rehabilitation/maintenance invest-
ments for the life of the project, the city public works departments will
annually prepare programs of traffic engineering and road maintenance expendi-
tures for both project and nonproject-related investments. These will be
reviewed by the URD and the Bank.
4.3       The city-level BAPPEDAs will be responsible for annually preparing a
rolling five-year urban transport investment program (see para. 1.7). The
BAPPEDAs will be assisted in this task on a part-time basis by advisors
seconded from the URD and CPCOs.
B. Implementing Agencies
4.4       Bina Marga.  Bina Marga, the Directorate General of Highways (DCH)
in the Ministry of Public Works, is responsible for the planning, construction
and maintenance of the national road network except for secondary and local
roads in the municipal areas. The organization is divided into six Direc-
torates: Planning, Urban Roads, three regional implementation directorates,
and an Equipment Directorate (see Chart 2). Approximately 8,000 personnel are
employed by Bina Marga, of whom 4,000 are permanent employees. Of these,
approximately 1,500 hold professional qualifications and about 1,000 are
engineers. Despite significant staff increases over recent years and substan-
tial training efforts there is still a recognized shortage of qualified per-
sonnel. Overall, however, Bina Marga is sufficiently experienced in engineer-
ing and construction management to handle the project implementation activi-
ties which would be assigned to it.
4.5       The Urban Roads Directorate, which was set up in 1984 to respond to
the growing problems in the urban transport sector, is organized into three
regional divisions and a research division. The Director of this Directorate
will be the Director of the project management unit who will be responsible
for the overall project management and supervision under the proposed project
as described in para. 4.1. The regional divisions of the Directorate are
responsible for planning Bina Marga's urban investment program. The principal
duties of the regional divisions are to supervise the design of urban road
projects, provide technical advice to the cities and monitor the construction



- 18 -
of Bina Harga's urban road construction and maintenance program. The research
division prepares standards and guidelines which are used for the planning of
urban roads. Approximately 200 staff are employed in the Directorate# of whom
about 70 are engineers. The general shortfall in qualified personnel within
Bina Marga is also apparent in the Urban Roads Directorate. However, an addi-
tional problem faced by this Directorate is the lack of staff experience in
preparing urban transportation plans and traffic management schemes. Much
valuable experience in this respect has been assimilated by the Directorate
through technical assistance provided for project preparation. Continuing
technical support will be an important feature of the project as described in
para. 4.8.
4.6       City Covernments.  The four city governments which will be involved
in project implementation have similar organizational structures. The princi-
pal city agencies involved in the implementation of the project will be the
City Public Works Departments. Adequately trained staff in sufficient numbers
are not available within these departments to coordinate and supervise the
implementation of the project in any of the cities. It is therefore proposed
to establish a core team of experts within the City Project Coordination
Offices (CPCOs) to oversee the implementation of both the Bina Marga and city
project components (see also para 4.8). These offices were established late
in 1985 by the city governments to handle project preparation. The core team
will also provide technical assistance to the relevant units within the Public
Works Departments to support the planning and implementation of the traffic
engineering and road maintenance components (see para. 4.2).
4.7       The principal institutional. objective of the project at the city
level is to expand the city's professional and technical capabilities in the
urban transport sector.  To achieve this objective city staff of various
grades and other involved agencies will participate in a focused training pW
gram (see paras. 2.14 and 2.15). It is also proposed to carry out a study -
of the city agencies involved in the urban transport sector and in particular
the Public Works Departments. The objective of this study will be to recom-
mend institutional change3 aimed at improving the overall planning and deli-
very of services in the urban transport sector. Particular attention will be
paid to coordinating the activities of the various city level agencies, ex-
panding road maintenance programs and establishing traffic engineering units.
This work will be carried out as part of advisory services to the URD and the
CPCOs. During negotiations assurances were obtained that this study will be
completed by April 1, 1988, and that appropriate institutional changes will be
made on a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
8/   This study will be conducted in concert with a separate study on city
level operations and maintenance to be financed under the Fifth Urban
Project (Loan 2408-IND).



- 19 -
4.8       Need for Advisory Services,  Although Bina Narga has a large number
of well-trained engineers with significant experience in highway design and
construction, their experience in planning, designing and implementing urban
transport and traffic projects is linited (see para. 4e5). At the city level
there is a scarcity of staff both in terms of numbers and appropriate training
(see para. 4.6). The project therefore provides for a substantial consultant
input during the life of the project and a well focused training program.
Besides assisting with the implementation of the project, the consultant ser-
vices and the training program are aimed at achieving the principal institu-
tional objectives of the project which are: (a) to leave behind a core of
engineers and planners in Bins Narga's Urban Roads Directorate who are capable
of identifying, appraising, and supervising urban transport projects through-
out the country; and (b) strengthening the capacity at the city level for
planning and implementing urban transport programs, Due to the importance of
technical assistance in the implementation of the project, appointment of (a)
URD consultant advisors and (b) consultant advisors to each project city would
be a condition for loan effectiveness.
C. Implementation Schedule
4.9       The project would be implemented over a seven-year period, April
1987 through April 1994. Detailed engineering has been completed for all road
components to be implemented during the first two years of project implementa-
tion (April 1, 1987-March 31, 1989) and tender documents for the first-year
program are completed. Related land acquisition is proceeding satisfactor-
ily. The tendering process for the first set of contracts began in all cities
during January 1987 and contract awards began during April 1987. (See
Annex 10 for details of implementation; see para. 4.19 and Annex 13 for
details on the proposed land acquisition program.)



- 20 -
D. Procurement and Disbursement
4.10      Procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in Table 4.1
belows
Table 4.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million, including contingencies)
Total
Project element               ICB       LCB       Other        N.A.       cost
Civil works:
Road construction,          8.9      33.5        0.5 /a       -         42.9
corridor improvements,    (5.2)    (19.4)       (0.3)         -        (24.9)
and traffic engineering
Road rehabilitation            -        9.7          -          -           9.7
and maintenance              -       (5.6)        -           -         (5.6)
Equipment:
Traffic signals and         7.8       0.8        0.3 /b       -          8.9
road maintenance equip.   (5.4)      (0.6)      (0.2)         -         (6.2)
Technical assistance,          -         -         11.3         -         17.3
training, design and        -          -       (14.3)         -        (14.3)
construction supervision
Land acquisition                         -          -          9.3         9.3
-         -          -         (0.0)       (0.0)
Total                     16.7      44.0       18.1         9.3        88.1
(10.6)    (25.9)     (14.8)       (0.0)      (51.0)
/a Force account
7i Prudent shopping
Note:   The figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank.
4.11      The estimated total value of civil works under the project is about
US$52.6 million including contingencies. Larger contracts (over US$3.0 mil-
lion each) for road construction and corridor improvements, totalling about
US$8.9 million, will be procured from prequalified contractors under inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) procedures consistent with Bank guide-
lines. The balance of construction contracts totalling about US$43.7 milliont
consists of contracts estimated to cost less than US$3.0 million each. These
contracts are scattered over four cities and time and are not likely to
interest foreign bidders. About US$43.2 million worth of these works will be



- 21 -
procured from prequalified contractors through local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. (See Annex 11 for further
details on contract packaging.) Foreign ccntractors will be eligible to bid
on contracts to be awarded under LCB. The balance of about US$0.5 million for
traffic engineering improvements will be executed by the cities under force
account.
4.12      Traffic signals and road maintenance equipment totalling about
US$7.8 million oquivaignt will be procured under ICB procedures in accordance
with Bank guidelines.Z/ Qualifying domestic manufacturers will receive a
preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the import duty, whichever is less.
Road maintenance equipment under contracts costing less than US$200,000 each,
and not exceeding a total of US$0.8 million, will be procured through LCB
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. This wide variety of equipment, most of
which is assembled or manufactured locally, will be procured via a number of
contracts by each of the four project cities over a four-year period and,
consequently, this procurement is not likely to interest foreign bidders.
Nevertheless, foreign bidders will be permitted to bid under these LCB
procedures. Miscellaneous goods costing less than US$50,000 and totalling not
more than US$300,000 may be procured by prudent local shopping.
4.13      Technical Assistance.  All of the technical assistance for consul-
tant services will be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. However,
in almost all cases for project management, design and supervision, and future
project preparation, consultants presently under existing contracts will be
retained under extensions or new contracts as proposed by the Government in
order to maintain continuity in project implementation. Open proposals for
project accounting consultants will be sought.
4.14      Prior Review of Contracts by Bank.  Award of all contracts for
equipment costing over US$200,000 will be subject to the Bank's prior review,
covering about 70% of the value to be contracted. As for civil works, there
are about 22 larger contracts in the range of US$1.0 to US$5.0 million, and
about 77 small contracts in the range of US$0.1 to US$1.0 million. With a
threshold of US$1.0 million for prior Bank review of civil works contracts,
about 25% of the total number of contracts would be reviewed covering about
80% of the value to be contracted. The balance of contracts for goods and
civil works will be subject to random post-review by the Bank. All technical
assistance contracts will be subject to the Bank's prior review (see Annex 11
for more details on Bank reviews of contracts).
4.15      All procurement documentation will be prepared by the CPCOs located
in each project city (with the assistance of the URD as required). Copies
will be sent to the URD to facilitate project monitoring. Copies of all con-
tracts will be kept on record in the URD, and will be available for mission
inspection. In addition to the above tasks, the URD will also monitor imple-
mentation schedules with a view toward coordinating and advising on any
9/   This equipment which would be the responsibility of the cities will be
procured by the Directorate of Equipment and Materials of Bina Marga.



- 22 -
procurement actions by the various impleme- ting agencies, particularly the
cities.
4.16      Disbursement.  Disbursements will be made against the following
categories of expenditures:
(a) 60% of the cost of civil works executed under contract, and traffic
engineering work undertaken by force account;
(b) 100% of the CIF cost of directly imported goods, 95Z of ex-factory
costs of locally manufactured goods, and 651 of imported goods
procured locally; and
(c) 100% of the costs of technical assistance and training expenditures.
4.17      Disbursements of Bank funds for major civil workst equipment and
technical assistance implemented under contract will be made against normal
documentation. Disbursements for minor civil works contracts costing less
than US$19000,000 e4ch will be made against statements of expenditure ba:sed on
actual payments to contractors. Similarly, disbursements for force account
civil works made for minor traffic engineering works will be made against
statements of expenditure. Finally, disbursements for student travelt
tuition, and subsistance expenses will also be made against statements of
expenditure. Supporting documents for expenditures made against these
statements will be retained by the CPcOs in each project city and by the URD
and made available to supervision missions for inspection. A unit price
analysis with supporting documents will be submitted for Bank review before
the first reimbursement for force account works is claimed. (See also
para. 4.20 for details on related accounting and auditing systems.)
4.18      The proposed disbursement period of 7 years (see Annex 12) is
consistent with the disbursjment profile for the urban sector in Indonesia.
This schedule is considered reasonable since project preparation, including
detailed engineering, is well advanced.
E. Land Acquisition
4.19      Land acquisition under the project is substantial, and most of the
land to be acquired is for road widening in well developed areas. The total
land acquisition cost (estimated at US$9.3 million) represents 10% of the
total prcject cost and affects road construction and corridor improvement
components representing approximately half of the total project cost.
Approximately 51 hectares of urbanized land, much of which is occupied by
residential and commercial structures, need to be acquired to accommodate the
road construction components under the project (see Annex 13). In accordance
with well established procedures, each project city has formed land acquisi-
tion committees to deal with the specific issues relating to compensation and
relocation arrangements. Funds have been advanced to the cities by the
Ministry of Finance on concessionary loan terms to advance the land acquisi-
tion process. It is estimated that all needed properties will be acquired by
April 1, 1989. To reduce the risk that delays in land acquisition will
adversely affect project implementation, the overall project implementation



- 23 -
schedule has been phased in stages to take into account the time it will take
to assemble the land. A confirmation was obtained during negotiations
regarding the land acquisition schedule.
F. Accounts and Audits
4.20      The URD, as the lead project management unit, will have overall
responsibility for establishing and monitoring the use of a uniform project
accounting system. City subproject financial records and accounts will be
maintained by the CPCOs based on copies of financial and supporting documents
obtained from the city project managers and relevant external agencies con-
cerned with project funding, payment and reimbursement. Similarly, for the
Bina Marga subprojects, the CPCOs will maintain separate project accounts
based on copies of financial and supporting documents obtained from the Bina
Marga project managers. Since all implementing units are non-revenue generat-
ing entities, the CPCOs will be responsible for maintaining subproject
accounts limited to project-related receipts and expenditures. The URD will
maintain subproject accounts for equipment procured on behalf of the project
cities and training and technical assistance. The CPCOs will be required to
transmit to the URD on at least a quarterly basis up-to-date subproject
account records. The URD project comptroller will, in turn, quarterly consol-
idate all subproject accounts from the CPCOs into a single project account for
monitoring purposes and annually for audit purposes. The audit statements
would deal with the central, provincial, and city government funds provided as
well as disbursements by the Bahk, and would include opinions on all expendi-
tures including those made against statements of expenditures. While the
accounting and auditing approach outlined above is agreed to in principle, no
staff have been appointed to date to establish an operating system. Accord-
ingly, the appointment of accounting consultants to the URD and the project
cities, and the appointment of staff accountants in the project cities would
be a condition for loan effectiveness against all components in each project
city. Furthermore, assurances were obtained during negotiations that (a) the
consolidated project account, including documentation on statements of
expenditure, will be annually audited in a timely fashion by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, and (b) Bina Marga will submit to the Bank
certified copies of the audited project account no later than nine months
after the end of each fiscal year commencing in FY 1987/88.
G. Project Monitoring and Progress Reporting
4.21      The URD will monitor project expenditures and the physical progress
of the project from monthly reports provided by the CPCOs. The CPCO progress
reports will be prepared from the information provided by the Bina Marga and
city project managers. Quarterly progress reports will be sent to the Bank by
the URD within one month of the expiration of each quarter. These will
include both consolidated monitoriig information for the total project and
individual reports for each city. The monitoring indicators for physical pro-
gress on civil works will be based upon the implementation schedule detailed
in Annex 10. Financial monitoring will be based on the detailed cost tables
given in Annex l. The URD will prepare a detailed project completion report
and submit it to the Bank not later than six months after the loan closing
date.



- 24 -
V. CITY FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Current Financial Condition of Project Cities
5.1       While the fiscal base of Indonesian cities generally remains weak,
with limited local resources to finance their development activities, the
fiscal base of the four project cities, which are among the largest in
Indonesia, has been improving substantially in recent years. The total
resources available to the project cities more than doubled between FY 1979/80
and FY 1984/85. While much of this increase resulted from the substantial
growth in central government grants or subsidies, locally generated revenues
also rose considerably. Local tax revenues of the project cities, which
constituted more than one half of the routine revenues, increased from a
minimum of 16X per annum for Medan to a maximum of 30% per annum for Surabaya
during this period. More significantly, property tax revenues increased
steadily at relatively high growth rates ranging from 20% per annum for
Surabaya to 30% per annum for Semarang during the same period. The growth of
property tax revenues, which ranged from 11% of the total development budget
for Bandung to 23% for Surabaya in FY 1984/85, enabled the cities to partici-
pate in the financing of capital investments. Development grants (including
INPRES and other subsidies and grants from higher levels of government) and
loans have varied considerably among the cities from year to year depending on
the specific development programs undertaken by the cities. (See Annex 14 for
historical financial profiles of the project cities for the period FY 1979/80-
FY 1984/85.)
5.2       As would be expected, the growth of development expenditures in the
project cities is fairly consistent with the growth of development funds in
these cities. The annual budget for development expenditures in each city is
determined by the availability of various financial resources, including
development grants from higher levels of government, loans from domestic and
foreign sources, and the cities' own resources. While the cities are financ-
ing direct revenue-generating projects (such as markets, slaughterhouses,
cargo and bus terminals, and water supply) from their own resources, in some
cases assisted by loans, the cities tend to utilize central government grants
and subsidies for infrastructure development projects (such as roads, kampong
improvement, drainage and solid waste disposal), which do not generate direct
revenues. The project cities, however, have utilized a relatively modest
amount of their development funds (including government grants) for urban
transport capital investments. During the five-year period FY 1979/80-
FY 1984/85 urban transport investments by the project cities ranged from a low
of 12% of Bandung's development budget to a maximum of 24% for Surabaya. (A
more typical range for urban transport infrastructure investment as a share of
total capital investments would be 25-40%.)
B. Project Impact on Local Government Finances
5.3       Ten-year prospective budgets for each of the project cities were
prepared as a basis ror assessing the impact of the project on city
finances. (The results are presented in Annex 14.) The budgets were based on
projections which assumed that:



- 25 -
(a)  central government grants for the regional cities over the projected
period would remain constant at current levels in nominal terms for
the next three years (FY 1987/88-FY 1989/90), and would increase at
the projected 3% rate of inflation for FY 1990/91-1994/95;
(b)  general recurrent and development expenditures would increase in
nominal terms at projected rates of inflation; and
(c)  programmed development expenditures for ongoing and new projects,
including the proposed project, would be accommodated.
5.4       Even with the conservative revenue assumptions reflecting a substan-
tial reduction in central government grants in real terms for the project, the
analysis of the financial capability of each project city indicates that they
all would have sufficient revenues to support the proposed project along with
ongoing development projects. While the cities will contribute a substantial
amount of their own funds to the project (23% of the total cost of city compo-
nents for Medan, 37% for Semarang, 48% for Surabaya, and 59% for Bandung),
these direct capital contributions by each city would be in an affordable
range representing from a minimum of 3% of total development budgets projected
for Medan to a maximum of 5% for Bandung during the project implementation
period FY 1986/87-FY 1992/93. The remaining funds required for the city
components will come from loans to the cities and from provincial budgets.
Table 5.1 summarizes the project's impact on each of the project cities by
indicating the budgetary contributions, loans to the cities, and total city
component costs as a percent of the total development funds projected for
FY 1986/87-FY 1992/93. The cities will bear the debt service burden
Table 5.1: CITY COMPONENT COSTS IN RELATION TO PROJECTED
CITY DEVELOPMENT BUDGETS
(as a percent of estimated
FY 1987/88-FY 1992/93 city development budgets)
Project city
Bandung     Medan     Semarang    Surabaya
City budget contributions          5.0         3.4       3.9           4.5
Provincial contributions           0.2         3.4       1.2            1.1
Loans                              3.3         7.8       5.4           3.8
Total city components              8.5        14.6      10.5           9.4
(principal plus interest) of the Bank loan on-lent to them, with a repayment
period of 20 years, with 5 years grace, starting from FY 1992/93. Assuming
the projections of revenues and expenditures indicated in para. 5.3 above are
met, these debt service obligations would be met by the cities without any
financial difficulty. The level of overall debt service burdens, including
existing and new loans, would be within the debt service ceiling established



- 26 -
by the Ministry of Home Affairs (i.e., 15X of total development funds,
excluding loan funds; see Annex 14).
5.5       In order for the cities to afford an expanding program of this
scale, and at the same time meet their obligations for debt service and
recurrent expenditures, it will be necessary to increase their local tax
revenues by about 5X per annum and property tax revenues by at least 72 per
annum in real terms during the next ten-year period. Given the recent growth
trend-, in local tax and property tax revenues, and the potential for improve-
ments in tax administration and collection efficiency, increses of this order
in real terms are considered to be easily achievable. The historical and
projected annual growth rates of local tax and property tax revenues of each
of the project cities are shown in Table 5.2.
Table 5.2: HISTORICAL AND PROJECTED ANNUAL INCRESES
IN PROJECT CITY REVENUES
Minimum required annul
Historical annual growth                      growth rate
rate by project city (Z) /a           for all project cities (Z)
FY 1985186      FY 1989/90
through        through
Type of Tax         Bandung  Medan  Semarang  Surabaya        FY 1988/89       FY 1994/95
Local taxes:
Current               19       16      19         30              12                9
Real                  8         6       8         20               5                5
Property taxes:
Current              26        25      30         20              14               11
Real                  16       15      20         10               7                7
/a   FY 1979/80-FY 1984/85.
VI, PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Justification
6.1       The proposed project will improve transport and traffic conditions
in the four largest secondary cities of Indonesia through the construction of
new road links, upgrading of existing road corridors, introduction of exten-
sive traffic engineering measures, and provision of enlarged and more effi-
cient road maintenance and rehabilitation programs. These investments should
improve the efficiency of the urban transport system by reducing travel times,
vehicle operating costs, and accident rates, and increasing traffic capacity,
especially in the central business districts and along major arterial
routes. In addition, they should substantially improve pedestrian conditions,



- 27 -
which have been largely neglected in Indonesian cities up to the present, and
in selected cases reduce flooding and open up new areas for economic develop-
ment. Finally, the maintenance and rehabilitation programs should serve to
preserve or extend the economic utility of the urban road networks.
6.2       The project will also have significant institution building benefits
at both the city and national levels, The project will contribute to the
improvement of the cities' professional and technical capabilities in trans-
port planning, traffic engineering and road maintenance, as well as enhancing
the Central Government's ability to prepare and supervise comprehensive urban
transport investment programs. It will serve to shift the emphasis on pro-
viding and maintaining urban road networks from the central to the local
governmental level, and similarly should serve to clarify the various
responsibilities of central and local governmental agencies in the provision
and maintenance of urban transport facilities and services. Overall, the
project should directly or indirectly benefit all of the 6.8 million residents
of the project cities, as well as those businesses and industries dependent
upon road transport.
B. Economic Evaluation
6.3       Because of the large backlog of transport works needed in each
project city, and local and central government funding constraints, the list
of candidate improvement schemes in each city far outstripped the available
financial resources. In order to establish priorities, the economic benefits
of all major proposed improvements were quantified and used as a principal
basis for selecting the major components for this project. Vehicle operating
cost (VOC) savings and travel time savings for work-related trips were used as
the basis for determining economic rates of return. The average internal rate
of return (IRR) of the project components for which benefits can be quanti-
fied, and which represent 50X of the total project cost, is estimas14 at 281
for VOC only and 361 if time savings are included (see Table 61).-'  The
IRR (considering VOC savings only) for individual components varies from 151
to 601 for road construction schemes, and ranges between 20X and over 341 for
corridor improvements. Considering only VOC savings, the average IRR for road
construction and corridor improvements, even with increasing costs by 20X and
decreasing benefits by 20X, is estimated at 191. Due to the difficulties of
measuring the benefits of many smaller and dispersed improvements, the bene-
fits of the traffic management and road maintenance/rehabilitation compovlnts,
which represent another 341 of total project costs, were not quantified.
However, these schemes, by virtue of their relatively low cost and concen-
trated location on road links with high traffic volumes and/or advanced stage
10/ The IRR includes relevant technical assistance costs applied to the total
cost of project components.
11/ An additional 11X of project costs, representing technical assistance and
training which could not be directly related to project components
yielding quantifiable economic returns, was similarly excluded from the
economic analysis.



- 28 -
of disrepair, are expected to have rates of return at least comparable to the
higher-cost road and corridor improvements. The relatively high rates of
return reflect the fill-in nature of the selected components in an environment
of already congested conditions and rapidly growing traffic volumes. (See
Annex 15 for details of the economic analysis.)
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED ECONOMIC RETURNS
Base                                Costs
Travel time         estimate-                             increase
& vehicle          vehicle        Costs      Benefits       &
operating       operating cost   increase   decrease   benefits
cost savings      savings only       20X         20X      decrease
Component      Average   Range   Average   Range   Average    Average    Average
Road
construction    36      25-74      29      15-60      24          24         20
Corridor
improvements    31     27-49       24     20-34       20          20         14
Total             36          -      28          -      23          22         19
C. Urban Poverty Impact
6.4       It is difficult to estimate the impact of the project on the urban
poor because project benefits would accrue to the population at large rather
than to any particular income group. The project investments are concentrated
along the major travel arteries of the project cities where public transport
services are concentrated. These services account for about 60X of all motor-
ized trips which are at least proportionally represented by the lower income
groups. The approximate proportion of the urban population falling below the
poverty line is 20%. Hence, it is estimated that at least 12% of the project
investments would benefit the poor with incomes below the relative threshold
of about US$236 per capita in 1984 prices.
D. Environmental Impact
6.5       It is estimated that about 51 hectares of urban land will be ac-
quired to accommodate upgraded and new road links under the project, on which
about 590 residential and business structures will be partially or totally
demolished. (See Annex 13 for details.) Indonesia has well established
procedures for compensating land owners for properties taken and relocating or
compensating residents or businesses for relocation. With these procedures,
land acquisition committees have been formed in all project cities (see para.
4.19) to expedite settlements and relocations. The road construction, corri-
dor improvement, and road maintenance and rehabilitation components will



- 29 -
include drainage facilities; widening, strengthening, and improving of road
surfaces; and provision of pedestrian sidewalks; all of which will improve
drainage, reduce periodic flooding, and reduce traffic noise. These same
improvo-weats should collectively contribute to improving traffic flows which
will h6ve a positive, though limited, effect on air quality through reduced
vehicle emissions. The net long-term environmental impact of the project is
expected to be positive.
E. Risks
6.6       The principal project risk is the capability of the project cities
to implement and maintain project components assigned to them under the
project. These components, in aggregate, represent substantially larger
investments in urban transport than made by the cities in the past. They also
entail the cities' involvement in areas such as traffic engineering where they
have little prior experience. Timely development of staff skills, especially
engineers and technicians, to accomplish greater efficiencies will be
needed. To reduce the risk, the project cities are being requested to appoint
selected key staff as a condition of loan effectiveness. A substantial input
of advisory services will be provided to the project cities, especially for
traffic engineering, road maintenance, and construction supervision.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
1.1       The following were agreed upon or confirmed during negotiations3
(a) annual preparation and submission of a rolling five-year urban
transport investment program by the project cities for Bank review
(para. 1.7);
(b) the project cities' responsibilities for all routine maintenance on
all streets within city administrative boundaries, and for all
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation on all streets classified as
secondary and local during the project implementation period (para.
2.13);
(c) on the main terms and conditions of on-lending agreements between
the Government and the project cities (para. 3.7);
(d) appointment of additional prescribed staff by the project cities
according to an agreed schedule (para. 4.2);
(e) review of the overall city transport functions, organization, and
staffing by April 1, 1988 and appropriate institutional changes by
the cities and the URD on a timetable satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.7);



- 30 -
(f) on the land acquisition schedule in support of project
implementation (para. 4.19); and
(g) annual audits of the consolidated project account by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank and submission of such audited
project accounts to the Bank no later than nine months after the end
of each fiscal year commencing in FY 1987/88 (para. 4.20).
7.2       The following would be conditions for loan effectiveneoss
(a) agreement by Bina Marga, and the affected provinces and project
cities on a road classification system in the project cities for
determining the financial responsibility for road construction and
road maintenance/rehabilitation under the project (parae. 2.13);
(b) the execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the Borrower and
the project cities (para. 3.7);
Cc) the appointment of a CPCO chief, city and Bin Mbarga project
managers, and a staff accountant in each project city (para. 4.1);
(A) the appointment of consultant advisors to the URD and project cities
(para. 4.8); and
(e) the appointment of accounting consultants to the UMD and project
cities (para. 4.20).
7.3       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$51 million to the Republic of Indonesia for
20 years including 5 years grace at the standard variable interest rate.



-31-
ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Summary of Project Investments by City
Bina Marga
investment
ExpMenditures                       as percent
Location of   Bina    City and                 1985       of total    Per capita
investment    Marga   province   Total   population   investment   expenditure
--  (Rp billion) ----   (million)             (M)        (RpOOO)
Bandung        19.7      10.2       29.9       1.64          66           18.2
Medan          12.5      18.8       31.3       1.64           40           19 1
Semarang       10.7      14.7       25.4       1,32          42           19.2
Surabaya      14.8       20.4       35.2      2.25           42           15.6
Technical
assistance  23.7         -        23.7       -              -             -
Total    81.4       64.1      145.5      6.85           56           21.2



-32-
ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Summary of Project Investment by Agency
Financial
resaonsibility       Share of  Local gov't
Total     Bina       Local       total      share of
Component                     cost      Marga     gov't      project      project
----- (Rp billion) ------        ----    (%) ----
Road construction             57.7       43.5       14.2        40           22
Corridor improvements         15.1         -        15.1         10          23
Traffid management            28.4       11.6       16.8         19          26
Road rehabilitation and
maintenance                 20.6        2.6       18.0         14          28
Technical assistance
and training                23.7       23.7        -          16            -
Total                  14505       81.4       64.1        100          100



-33-
ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Summary of Project Scope and Financial Responsibility !y Agec
(Costs in Rp billion)
Financial
Type of cost               responsibility
Civil  Equip-         TA and          Bina   Cities &
Project component                           works   ment   Land  train.  Total  Marga  provinces
Road Construction                            44.5     -    13.1/b   -       57.6   43.4      14.2
Corridor Improvements /a                     13.2     -      1.9     -      15.1     -       15.1
Traffic Management
Traffic signal systems                       -    11.6      -      -      11.6   11.6       -
Central business district measures          8.7     -       -      -      8.7      -       8.7
Isolated intersections                      4.4     -      0.3     -      4.7      -       4.7
Street signing and road marking             3.4     -       -      -      3.4      -       3.4
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Primary roads /b                            2.7     -       -      -      2.7    2.7        -
Secondary and local roads                  14.1     -       -      -     14.1      -      14.1
Equipment for routine maintenance            -     3.9      -      -      3.9      -       3.9
Technical Assistance and Training
Assistance in project implementation         -      -       -    17.3    17.3   17.3        -
Training program                             -      -       -     1.6      1.6    1.6       -
Future project preparation                   -      -       -     4.8     4.8    4.8        -
Total                                   91.0   15.5   15.3   23.7   145.5   81.4       64.1
/a  Consists of comprehensive improvements to selected road links which will involve less than
full reconstruction.  Includes selective repaving, intersection improvements, provision of
pedestrian facilities, and other traffic management measures.
/b Does not include routine maintenance. Only rehabilitation and maintenance undertaken by
contract will be eligible.



-34-
1~~~~~~~~~~~~13.
Loect lat   Umste
talled co Estdt e by C.mt
(god .4111 h.  Cut *l1 19)
tWoll PrNOct
...........................................................................................................................
CwlT                             Civil (Wpr   bm  huI    S     CAatts   Lad  Totl   km   City
Uo         raitCs  SpWiT  toW    F                           Priet Cat    a    brp   *Pr
..................................0................... ........................................................................
Road Cuoctrtl            7           0      717       43          4       91?     1n        4        15561    15121        4
LarrLwI o ts             974         0      9I                 10         102        72       20      1217         0      1217
lrufic  _      d        3714     302?      6m71       33       7110       711      e3        251        02      3871      S2
RAU lr Wnt   22                 m        321    161  3371    330    51                       0   4222   701   3523
su-low                16076      362t   19710         9S5    2065        2069     229        30    2t          19S99    10203
Ra   dCmr net          1116S         0    11165       SSI    11723       1172      1171     10       1S7         71       S3
corrldar   bo t         26           0     M          124      2612       261       25         0      3131         0      3131
Traffic I _gm     t    4802      1640      642        322      6764       676      932         0      873       2101     6271
low  kWAb hint    103             5u       3312       152      3154       315  1    ?7         0      3569       SI       3111
S:-l tul               20211     215    231?         11S7    241         2429     3S0       100      3126?    12t66   111
a   CaOtNim            4612          0     4612       21S    4127         "3       023      3131        7       6513     2303
Cwr1tdr      outs    33a1           0      3321       166      317        34"      411       167      I3           0     13
trattficgM       ut       4      27M1      36101      111      37N        a1       521        27      4m        3517      120
SmR .       ilhItA      4300      197      5197       260      557        56       IS1         0      618        613     626S
it.tl                  1321?     3611    16820        11q     17669      176?     2570      3345    Z5351    1067       11678
IudCeatuctlas           9825         0     9325       16       9791       979     1259      40       16920    12020      10
Corridor k    ts        3M3         0      343        172      3515       362      663      170       6340         0     630
Traffc        w t    3325        15%        21        246      616?       51i?     6           0      637       2012     u20s
kIWdWliA          t    334        076      423        212      "42        44       612         0      so68       6"      1874
SiTtatl                1"447     2472    21919       106    23015       2301     3261      660      352I      14606    20
Tcal bdsta
KMIC    I _an.             0         0        0    I1M3           0         0     225          0    17210    171             0
EIfl 1P    a iara          0        0         0      4165         0         0      625         0      4710     7m            0
TrM                        0         0        0   130             0         0    201           0   159?   1m                 0
S i-otl                    0        0         0    mIS            0         0     3090         0    236??    23677           0
roect Totul
bd C      truct       3319          0    33119       16%      35615      3561     532?    13125        6       4346     14163
Carrld'T      abts    1 6           0    10226       S11    1037       107V      140       107    1522            0    1122
traffic ISpmt   12M             O97       21752      I0       22010      2204     2170       m       20370    1150       1671S
1u  lld.1 blA t   12111          216    15607         76      16471      14       24           0    26197       2592    ISIN
tedul but.                 0        0         0   MIS             0         0   3001           0   23677  2367               0
.........................................         4 . ......................................................*...............
lot                6910 1       93 05  1664    2461   1O2S2          0566    15276    I 15            114 3    X 01325    671
..........0..         .       ................................... I............ ............        ...............................



-35-
Rranex 1
Table 5
&soim. cirzEs  mii   IReaisoa  PROECT
Project Cost Estllate
Detailed Cost Estinates by Copnent
(Rupi a illion, Base Cost Wpril 1987)
co    lT                            Civil      uip-        ase      esi        Su       Contilgencies         Land      total        ino      City
Urks        raot      Cost   SpnTR        Total    Physcal Price           Base       Cost   rIrga        #Prov
......................................................I......................................................
Roi Cotruction
J1.Llng*    Su            3225                 3225        161      36           39        08 t40             45?3       4133        4%
Jl.UnOm  SE 1             2425                 2125       121       2546        255      3M?        1525        73       4703
Jl.Linokr SE 2            3087                 3087        154      3241        324       S95       2125      6285       6285
.~~~~~~........ ........ ...4........O...........................................................I....I...I...........
totail                   837            0      8737        437      9174        91?      18         190      15561      15121        44
..... ....  .    ... .... .. . .............................................................. ..#........... 4............ ...........4...........
Corridor irowwsnts
torr.haraco.               974                  97t          9      1023        102        72         20      121?                  1217
..............      ............ ................................................................. .................. ..
Sub-total                  974          0       974         19      1023        102        72         20      121?          0      1217
,.* .......................                           .......................................................................
traffic Nmant
C8D Re                   1260                  1260         63      1323        132       159                 1614                 1614
Intersction              1658                  165B        03       1741        174       155        250      2320                 230
Sign   lrking              826                  82          It       867         87       135                 1089                 1089
..1.....     ...        ...............................* ..................................                .............I............
Sb-total                  3744          0      374         187      3931        393       149        2S0      5023          0       5023
.........            .................................................................................................
lowd eabdilitation I hint.
Secn r a Local           2091                  20         105       2196        220       342                 2757                 27
Prt         bR ds          530                  530         27       557         56        8?                  700        700
...... ......  .    ... ................................................ ...................I...............................
Sub-total                2621          0       2621       131       2752        275       429          0      3457        700      275?
....... .........    ........................................................... ............ ......... ..................
-uApet
Traffic Signals                     3027       3027       151       3178        318       383                 3879       3979
Road rtaintce                        597        59?         30       627         63         76                  766                  766
.........            ..........         .      ................. ...................................... ...
Subtota                      0      3624       3624       181       385         381       159          0      4644       379         ?66
....................                              .     ...........................................................................
total                16076       3624    19700         985    20685        2069      289        4360     2992       19699    10203



-36-
Table 6
IHIKOSIR
RESIloN     CITIES UMRtl TINSPORT PROJECT
Project Cost Estirate
Detailed Cost Estinates by Coaponent
(Rupiah nillion, base Cost epril 198?)
Mledan
COIIPONI                             Civil   Equip-         Base   Design         Sub-      Contingencies          Land      Total       8tN         City
Uorks       fent       Cost   SpA1R         Total      Physcal Price          Base        Cost    larga       +Proy
.................................................................................................................. ......
Road Construction
Jl.Sising. 1               lt89                  1489         74       1563        166        167        250       213?       1887         250
Jl.Sisqffl. 2              It61                  1161         73       1534        153        205        250       2143       1893         260
JI.Pattiwra 1              2442                  2442        122       2664         266        414                  3235      3235
Jl.0akt                    1171                  1171         69       1230        123        198                  1$51                   1661
Jl.Hdlat                   1708                  1708          865     1793         179       368         288      2629                   2629
Jl.Nkswr                   1139                  1139         57       1196        120        302                  161?       1617
Jl.Juand                    908                   908          45       953          95        101                 1160       1150
Jl.Sutrisno                 847                   817         42        889         89        119        216       1313                  1313
.........             ............. .... .....................I............. .....................................................
Sub-total                11166           0     11165         668      11723       1172       1871       1004      16774       9781       5993
, ,...........        .............. . ..........................I..........................I..............................
CorriW iprouwnts
Corr. Ibrni     Or.        1415                  1415         71       1486        149        10?                  1741                  1741
Corr. Sison.               1073                  1073         51       1127        113        161                  1390                  1390
.........             .................................I................................................I..................
Sb-total                  2488           0       2488        124       2612        261        268           0      3131           0      3131
: O,...               .................................................................................................
Traffic IhN gent
CIW o rea                  2391                  2391        120       2611        251        337                  30g9                  3099
Intersections              1732                  1732         87       1819        182        27?                  2278                  2278
Sign I Hbrking              6?9                   679         34        713          71       110                   895                   896
, ........ .....      .......................................................                 I............   .......I................
Sub-total                  4802          0       4802        240       6042        604        775           0      6271           0      6271
.........             ........         .       .. ......I......         ......................................................................
load Rehabilitation & IHint.
Secondary 8 Local          1392                  2052        103       2155        216        335                  2705                  2705
Prima    Roads              444                   444         22        466         17         73                   585        686
.........             ............. ......................................................I......................................
Sub-total                  1836          0       2496        125       2621        262        107          0       3290        686       2705
.........             ............ I           ................... ..........................                 ..    ............. ...................
mquigment
traffic Signals                       1640       1610         82       1722        172        207                  2101       2101
Road ifintena                          546        546         27        573         67         60                   699                   699
.........             ............. ................................. I.......I.........I..................I........................
Sub-total                     0       2186       2186        109       2295        230        276          0       2800       2101        699
l.........            .........2 .................................................................3...........10...........
Total           20291       2186      23137        1157     2429i        2429       3540       1004      31267      12468      18799
--  -  -  -. ----  ,. .. -  -- - - - -- - - -  -  -- - - - - - -- - - - - -  _, --  -  - - - - -    -      -



hel
-37-                                                                 ------
Table?7
INODHSIR
REGI0NRL CITIES URORN IRUNSPRT PROJECT
Project Cost Estisate
Detailed Cost Estinates by Conponent
(Rupiah tillion. Base Cost fipril 1981)
Sexaranq
,                                                      ^~~~~~~sa
CCIP0ENT                           Civil   Equip-        Base   Design       Sub-    Contingcies             Land    Total       Bina       City
Uorks      nent       Cost   SprdTl      Total    Plnscal Price           base      Cost    fbrga    #Prov
........      ......................................................       .. ....................................................
Road Construction
JI.Kalige 1              3075                 3075        154      3229       323        523       301      4375       4376
Il.Siliuangi 2            781                  781         39       820        82        20?                1109       1109
e iir or.                 836                  836         42       878        88         94                1060       1060
."rth Ring Road 1           0                    0          0         O          0         0       670        670         0       670
North Ring Road 2            0                   0          0         0          0         0      2160      2160          0      2160
.....................................................................................................................
Sub-total                4692          0      4692        235      492?       493        823      3131      9373       6543      2930
,.........     .    . .........................................................I....................4.....................
Corridor Inprouenents
Corr. 1 U                 726                  726         36       762        76         54        38       930                  930
Corr. I E                 819                  819         41       860        06        115        48      1109                 1109
Corr. I to                830                  830         42       872        87         93        43      1095                 1095
CErr. I NE                822                  822         41       863        86        139        58      1147                 1147
Corr. 4 (part)            124                  124          6       130         13         9                 152                  152
.........           ...................................................................*.
Sub-total                3321          0      3321        166      3187       349        411       187      4434          0      4434
.........           ............. ..........I........................ ...............................................................  
Traffic flanagaent
CBO Rrea                  425                  425        21        446        45        60         21       572                  572
Intersections              44                   44         2         46         5          6         6        63                   63
Sign  a Harking           435                  136        22        457        46         72                 574                  574
................... ...............I.................................................................................
Sub-total                 904          0       904        45        949        95        138        27      1209          0      1209
................    ...................................................................................................
Road Rehabilitation I Haint.
Secondary a Local        3836                 3835       192      4027        403       626                 5055                 5055
Priwy Roads               465                  465        23       I80         49         76                 613       613
.........           ............. ............I.... ... .........................................................I................
Sub-total                4300          0      43Q0       215      4515        t52       702          0      5668       613       6055
.........           ..............................................................                ................................
Equipment
Traffic Signals                    2714       2711       136      2850        285       383                 351?      3517
Road llaintenance                    897       897        is        942        94       113                 1149                 1149
.........           ..................................................................................................
Sub-total                   0      3611       3611       181      3792        379       496          0      4667      3517       1149
........                                                                                  ........ ............. ...............
rotal               13217       3611    16820        041    17669        1767       25?0      3345    26351       10674    14678
.-                                                                 --_                           --..--       -     -          - - -



-38-
Table 8
&SIONRL CITIES mm88N TI8NSPORt PROJECt
Project Cost Estinute
Detailed Cost Estiates by Cponaent
(Ruab eillio, Os  C             fpril 19)
SV4*
.................... ... .........................................................
COllPIIIIERt                     Civil  EWui                  Design      Sb-    Contingencies          Land    Tal         Bina      City
Orlks       at       Cost      ITR      tetal    Phwl Price            Oase      Cost   lhrgp        Frou
load Construction
11.0p                   3209                3209       16B      3369       33?       300      3300      7306      4006      3300
1l.Sungkono .tl         6116                6116       3106     6422       642       950      1600      9614      8014      1600
I.. ....   ...       .... .............  S..... ............ ..........................                ............ . ..... -
Sub-total               9325         0      9325       466      9791       9?9      1250      1900    16920    12020        4900
......... ~          ~9tS                         5 ................................................................... ..............
Corridor lprVae ts
East Uest Link          343                 3*3        172      3615       362       663      170       6310                6340
......... ............. ....................................................... .s............... .... .......................
Sub-teol                3113         0      3113       172      3615       362       663      1700      6310         0      6310
......... ..~~~~~~~~~~~........... 0.4..#......    .................  ............  .......................................
Traffic tmnagat
Old   D 1 a 2           2648                2618       13?      2780       278       331                3393                3m3
Interections                                   0         0         0         0         0                   0                   0
Sign a brking            677                 677        34       711        71       ItO                 892                 892
.S..,..,*.....,....... ............. ......................................................                           ..........
Su-te l                 3325         0      3325       166      3191       319       45          0      4285         0      4285
~~~~~~~~~......... ......... I................................................... ..................                ...................
Road Rehabilitation A Ihint.
Se awd        Atuld     28?                 2827       11      2968       297       161                3726               3726
Prieary Roads            527                 527        26       553        55        85                 69        694
Su-total                3354         0      33Bt       168      3522       352       546         0      4420       694     3726
....                 .... ............ 0.4 .........    ...........
Traffic Signals                   1596      1596        g0      1676       168       249                2092      2092
Roaa lintenae                      876       876         I       920        92       136                1148                1118
....... .........   ..................   .............................................................. .................
sub-total                  0      2472      2472       121      2596       260       385         0      3210      2092     1118
Total              19147       2472    21919       106    23015       2301      3289      6600    35205    1186    20399



-39-                             ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
City Traffic and Transport Profiles
A. Population, Traffic and Road Network Data
1.        Bandung, Medan, Semarang and Surabaya are the four largest cities in
Indonesia outside the capital, Jakarta. Three of these are located in Java,
the most densely populated of the Indonesian islands. Surabaya is the capital
of East Java and a major port. Bandung is the capital of West Java and a
major center for higher education and industry. Medan is the capital of North
Sumatra and an important port and center for oil and gas exploration.
Semarang is the capital of Central Java and an important harbor, All four
cities have airports serving their regions with frequent services to Jakarta.
2.        The population figures for the four regional cities and Jakarta,
between 1971 and 1985, are shown in Table 1. All four cities have populations
exceeding one million persons. Current growth rates vary between 2% and 5%.
Table 1: CITY POPULATIONS AND GROWTH RATES
1971 /a      1980 /a    Growth rate       1985 /b    Growth rate
City          population   population       1971-80      population      1980-85
(million)    (million)         (%)        (million)         (%)
Surabaya          1.56         2.03          2.97           2.25          2.01
Bandung           1.20         1.46          2.20           1.64          2.35
Medan             0.64         1.38          8.91           1.64          3.51
Semarang         0.65          1.03          5.25           1.32          4.93
Jakarta          4.05          5.90          3.97           6.85          3.95
/a Census data.
7F Estimate.
Source: Cipta Karya.
3.        The number of vehicles and the growth in the vehicle fleet between
1981 and 1985 are shown in Table 2. Current growth rates for total vehicles
in the four regional cities vary between 6.9% and 9.6%. As shown in Table 3,
car ownership is highest in Bandung with 46 cars/1,000 population. Surabaya
and Medan have similar ownership figures at about 31 cars/1,000. Semarang has
the lowest car ownership at about 24 cars/1,000. Ownership rates in Bandung



-40-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
are siminlar to those in Jakarta. The vehicle fleet in each city expressed as
a proportion of the national fleet is shown in Table 4. The proportion of
vehicles in the four regional cities taken together represents 18% of the
national fleet and is equivalent to the vehicle population of Jakarta. The
vehicle fleet in Jakarta compared to the regional c'.ties is higher in cars and
lower in motorcycles.
Table 2: VEHICLE FLEETS AND GROWTH RATES
City      Year              Car       Truck        Bus        Total      Motorcycle
Surabaya  1981            45,267      27,506       1,936      74,709      206,926
1982            51,907      32,076      2,087      86,070      238,931
1983            57,212      35,334      2,180      94,726      264,269
1984            63,010      38,836       2,271    104,117      280,971
1985            67,931      57,364      2,376    127,671       290,650
Growth rate      10.7%       11.9%        5.3%       11.0%        8.9%
Bandung   1981             65,749     29,553       3,134      98,436      157,783
1982            70,285      32,519      3,509    106,313       173,579
1983            70,005      37,551      4,441    111,997       193,082
1984 /a         70,052     41,503       5,089    116,644       212,390
1985 7          75,190      42,350      5,905    123,445       227,560
Growth rate       3.4%        9.4%       17.2%        5.8%         9.6%
Medan      1981            31,930      21,206       3,826     56,962      159,134
1982            34,739      23,916      4,068      62,723      177,740
1983            38,320    2K,445        4,251      69,016      190,687
1984 /a         41,111      28,256      5,278      74,645      206,360
1985 7-a        51,770      30,429      6,346      88,545      207,665
Growth rate      12.8%        9.4%       13.4%       11.7%        6.9%
Semarang  1981            25,492       18,837      1,553      45,882      141,667
1982            28,157      21,389       1,907     51,453      158,718
1983            31,095      23,690       1,761     56,546      174,515
1984 /a         31,341      23,871       1,847     57,059      178,336
1985 7ia        32,328      24,775      2,036      59,139      191,075
Growth rate       6.1%        7.1%        7.0%       6.6%          7.8%
Jakarta   1981           246,153      97,369      38,231    381,753       492,792
1982           275,139    112,494      49,827    437,460       570,972
1983           299,164    126,859      62,515    488,538       628,414
1984           323,715    141,141      81,783    546,639       673,061
1985           351,673    159,207    102,638    613,518        741,040
Growth rate       9.3%       13.1%       28.0%       12.6%        10.7%
/a Estimated from provincial figures.
Source: City Police Departments*



-41-
ANNEX 2
Page 3
Table 3: VEHICLE OWNERSHIP IN 1985
(Vehicles per 1,000 population)
City             Car ownersip      Vehicle /a ownership    Motorcycle ownership
Surabaya                30                   57                      129
Bandung                 46                   75                      139
Medan                   32                   54                       127
Semarang                24                   45                      145
City average            33                   58                      134
Jakarta                 45                   78                       94
/a Cars, trucks and buses.
Table 4: PROPORTION OF THE NATIONAL FLEET REGISTERED IN CITIES, 1985 (%)
City                      Car      Truck        Bus      Motorcycle        Overall
Surabaya                  7.4         5.5       1.3           6.6             5.6
Bandung                   8.2         5.4       3.2           5.2             4.7
Medan                     5,6         3.9       3.5           4.7             4.0
Semarang                  3.5         3,2       1.1           4.3             3.4
Total Regional
Cities            24.7       18,0        9.1         20.8            17.7
Jakarta                  38.5        20.1      55.9          16.8            18.2
4,        The size and classification of the road network in each city is
shown in Table 5.  One third of the networks of the project cities are com-
posed of primary and secondary roads. The primary road network, which is the
responsibility of central government, represents about 1OZ of the total. The
existing classification will change significantly in Surabaya, Bandung and
Semarang when the proposed toll roads are completed.



-42-
ANNEX 2
Page 4
Table 5: CITY ROAD NETWORKS AND CLASSIFICATION
(Based on old classifications)
Primary        Secondary           Local              Total
km      X       km       X        km        X        km        7
Surabaya        83      10      172     21         549     68         804     100
Bandung         41       7      114     20         420     73         575     100
Medan           83       6      208     15       19059     79       1,350     100
Semarang        66       9       99     14         559     77         724     100
Total     273      8       593     17       2,587     75       3,453     100
Source: City surveys.
B. Traffic and Transport Situation
5.        Traffic Congestion.  Relatively high vehicle growth rates combined
with lack of investment on road improvements have resulted in increasing
levels of traffic congestion in all cities. Typically, the main traffic arte-
ries are too narrow to accommodate present traffic levels and the city center
traffic systems are poorly organized with inadequate parking controls. The
structural hierarchy of the road networks is very poor, with incomplete or
nonexistent ring roads, and underdimensioned arterials. Very often, the
alignments for these major improvements have been compromised by the construc-
tion of buildings along the proposed rights-of-way. Government's response to
this situation has been to propose urban toll road systems linked to the
national highway network. The toll roads are generally too far out to redis-
tribute intracity traffic, but should relieve the city roads of some through
traffic, particularly heavy goods vehicles.
6.        Traffic management, as a tool for improving traffic flow, is poorly
understood and consequently not used to any significant effect. Signing and
marking are inadequate and traffic control systems are generally old and inef-
ficient. It is estimated that 751 of existing traffic signal equipment will
need to be replaced by 1990. The control and enforcement of traffic regula-
tions is hampered by lack of suitable training and equipment. Major programs
of traffic improvement measures are required in all the regional cities to
improve the flow of traffic in the central business districts and on the prin-
cipal radial roads. A necessary prerequisite to correcting the present situa-
tion will be the creation of a Traffic Eng,neering Unit within each city to
prepare and implement traffic improvement schemes, monitor traffic flows and
coordinate the efforts of the planning and regulating agencies involved in the
urban transport sector.



-43-
ANNEX 2
Page 5
7,        Road Naintenance.  Poor road maintenance is also a significant fac-
tor in reducing road capacity. Because of neglect, major rehabilitation of
roads and footways in the central areas and along radial roads is necessary in
all of the regional cities. It is estimated from recent surveys that between
501 and 70X of the primary and secondary roads in the regional cities are in
need of rehabilitation. To improve this situation will require significant
increases in recurring expenditure and improvements in the organization and
irplementation of road maintenance programs.
8.        Public transportation plays a major role In the movement of people
in the metropolitan areas of Indonesia. In Jakarta, for example, 55% of
motorized trips are by various forms of public transport, including 44% by
bus. Similarly, high proportions of public transportation usage occur in the
regional cities. Public transport modes include double-decker buses, single-
decker buses, minibuses, taxis, three-wheeled motorcycles and three-wheeled
bicycles. In general, the buses and minibuses operate on specified routes
along the main arteria1ss Taxis and three-wheeled vehicles provide personal
door-to-door services. All forms of public transport are regulated by the
authorities, but their operations are uncoordinated. Apart from the publicly
operated Damri buses, all public transport vehicles are privately owned. The
nurber of Damri buses in the regional cities varies from 66 in Medan to 197 in
Bandung., These buses generally represent less than 10% of the public trans-
port fleet.



INDneSIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Details of Physical Components
Road Construction Surary
Road     Start of       Agency                 Type of      Right-of-way                    Base cost           Average daily
City/road          clalss-   construc-   financially                improve-   Exis-       Pro-   Cross-      Civil    Right-       traffic (ADr)
link name         ficstton      tton       responstble   Length       ment      ting     posed   section    works    of-way    198S 1J 1998
(km)            _             _- (meters) --- -    - (Rp itllion) -   -       (000) --
Surabaya
Doipak             PA        1987/8R        8M /a         1.85       W          14       35      6-14-6    3,216    3,000         15   t1       29
Sungkono           PA        1987/88        am 7          2.96       W          24        30     10-10lb   6,193    1,700/c       30    35      58
Subtotal                                               4.81                                             9A409    4.700
Bandung
Lingkar SW         PA        1987/88        DM /a         3.76       W          30        30      10-10     2,658       440       22    25      41
Lingkar SE I       PA        1984/90        BM            1.87       MR          -        30      10-10     2,520    1,525        22    25      41
Ltngkar S8 2       PA        1989/90        an            2.68       MR          -        30      10-10     3,207    2,125        22    25      41
Subtotal                                               8.31                                             8.385    4,090
Medan
Sitongas. I        PA        1987/88        RM            1.22       W          22        30      10-10     1,089         -        30    35      57
Bakti              SA        1988/89        City          1.10       W          25       25        7-7        818         -        5      6     10
Nalat              SA        1989/90        City           1.55      U          14        20       7-7      1,203       288        6      7      11
Aksara             SA        1990/91        Om            t.80       W           4       25        7-7      1,139         -        -      -      -                               I
Sutrisno           SC        1989/90        City          1.20       W          10        15       It         847       216        4      5      8
Sisingam. 2        PA        1988/89        Om            1.25       W          22        30      10-10     1,063       250       16    19      31
Pattimura I        PA        1989/90        8M            2.30       W          26       26    9.5-9.5   2,086            -       19    22      39
Juandu             SA        1990/91        RN            1.14       W          20       20        14         908         -        8    10      15
Subtotal                                              1l.S6                                             9.153    1.004
Semsrang
TaltRave I         PA                       R NM          2.64       W          20       20        14       1,505       301       17    19      28
Stliwanqe 2        PA                       g Sm          1.96       W          30       30       10-10       781         -       24    28      47
Banjir Or.         PC                       SM            0.06       W          12        I8       14         836         -       12    14      23
Subtotal                                               4.60                                             3.212       301
Total                                                 29.28                                             30.159   10,095
/a  City pay for land.
7T  Cross-sectton changed to Type C to reduce costs to correspond with existtng road characteristics at the link terdmnuses.  (See /c                                     F  ;
below.)                                                                                                                                                               -ji
/c  Including Western Corrtdor 1.
Legend
PA   - Primary arterial
SA   - Secondary arterial
PC   - Primarv collector
SC   - Secondary collector
SM   - Sina Marga
City - Municipality
W    - Widening



-45-
ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Details of Physical Component.
Corridor leprovements Summary
Road    Start of       Agency                                                         Average daily
City/road                   classi-  construe-  financially                            Base cost                    traffc (ADTJ
link name                  fication    tton       responstble  Length         Civil works              Row         1985  1988  1998
(km)        ------ (Rp millton)  -----          ---  ('000) ----
Surabaya
East-West link              SA        1988/89       City         2.41            2,879              1,100         21    24    40
Subtotal                                                      2.41           2,879              1,100
Bandung
Corr. Ktaraeg. I             PA       1987/88       City         1.50              831                ISO         17    20    34
Subtotal                                                      1.50             831                 150
Kedan
Corr. Warni + Br            SA        1987/88       City         0.85            1,219
Corr. Sfstag.               PA       1987/88        Cttv         1.20              677                  -         24    28    46
subtotal                                                      2.05           1,896
SemaranR
Corr. 1 W                   SA        1987/88       City         1.30              564                 38         14    17    30
Corr. I e                   PA        1989/90       City         2.33              R19                 48         14    17    30
Corr. I NW                   PA       1988/89       City         1.35              251                 43         14    17    30
Corr. I NE                  PA       1989/90        City         2.39              822                 58         *14    17    30
Corr. 4 (part)              SA        1987/88       City         0.47               63                  -          6      7    13
Subtotal                                                      7.84           2,519                187
Total                                                        13.80           8,125              1,437
Letend
VeenAd      - Primary artertal
SA     - Secondary arterial
ROW    - Right-of-way



-46-
ANNEX 3
Table 3
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Details of Physical Components
Traffic Management Summary: Traffic SiLnals
City
Surabaya Bandung Medan Semarang Total
Road Construction
Approximate number of sets
of equipment                             7       13        3        8      31
Corridor Improvements
Approximate number of sets
of equipment                             4        2        1       15      22
Traffic Management
Approximate number of sets
of equipment                            10       39      23        18      90
Total
Approximate number of sets
of equipment                      21        54      27        41     143
Note: Sets of equipment include controllers, cabling, detectors and signal
heads for signalizing intersections or pedestrian crossings.



-47-
ANNU 3
tilU~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,Datala of Pwicai  eoenost
Road RhbiUtbtileeand  uisaia           eh  ob   are   u Under the PRoecet
Oenctiteia               Vwu       MS verne   iiaUrenNIC     5                                               1101 10n  a1rto   Iuptrm        wervs
mqua   tVtan"47          DUstui               Pothole, surfs"   Snoethtq                Reconstrut           Structural
ptchin,  eaeln    4 raseals              pavent               overlays;
c=  ed0g  rset tewidentng
sleatd sheuldere       Sweepin              Pthboles             Reesei               Gacoeattuct          Overlays seal
Utweot d shoulder,    Cut crae              Trti/ratsa           triot/aset           if aseeessrv
rarscvelltaq
Curba 6 side gettear    Sweeting &          Moor repairs         MA                   Raceatruct          New gutters
cleamni                                                       tt a eseery          6 curbsa
OrDsio      slete      Cleao/reeese         NIter revaovr        NA                   Reconstruc  It       Build now  slots
octructloss                                                   aece"eari
Lied side drain        Close/reve           motae  repaitn       NA                   RAbuild where        NA
obetruetiotn                                                   mesary
Utliad side dratte    Clean, recut ditch  Na                     NA                    e4ncovat  tt        Line existint
sides                                                         eollopsd             unlitnd
Culvert                Clze/recove          mnoa repatir         MA                   tpla  tt             Leongthe  or
oetruetie                                                     neeeary              strength"n
Sideals                Soweing 4            Mort repatro         Repir & reseal       Reonstruct           Build new
cbain                                                         ift neesooory        sidevalkc
LAndscting t3dian      Cut  at"s            NA                   Prune tree           Ctear overrowth    Landcaepo
* berm.              Trim trees                                                                          first ties
PedAstrtan overbrdgeSwep clean              MA                   Sandbleat            Repla  corroded    Rutld new
repaint             parts                overbrtdge
Rotedrktag 6           MA                   N A                  Repintn              Raest out ad         Extend merking
pedetrtia  craeloig                                                                 pe*tot
Street lighting        Clean                 A                    "epaint steel       ReAlace corroded    Upgrade statem
Reptace bulbs        parts
Traffti *4igale        Clean                NA                   Repatin  pert        Replace corroded    Upgrade systeo
repieeo bulbs       parts
Tratfic signs          Cleea                NA                   Repat                Replace If           Upgrade
corrode             replacenent
amIU5TU'UFF!agwey        NA                   Pothole., Surface   Smoothing            Rconatruct           Structural
patehbing, sealn    6 reseelcs           pavnst               overlays;
crecks edge reeairs                                           wtdenitg
unealed carriaewaty   NA                    Potholes. ruts       Regravellieg         Reconstruct          Structural
draqiwn, r-                              pavensot             overlays; seal
grading                                                         idening
Sealed ahoulder        N                    Potholes             Relo                 Roconstruct         Overloay
Unseld shoulder.       cut  asts            "PrA                 Trio/raise           tt necseaary        Seasl
Draint e slote                     T- eseseeeeuea    gs tsww    t r SNiOtI  s eot wgts   CORRIOThY oaaoea *eee
Lied side dratin       Clean/remoe          moinor reaetrs       NA                   Rebuild wvher        N.A.
obstructions                                                   ecesosry
Unlined side drains    Clean, recut         N                    NA                   Rotxcavate          Lne existing
dttcb side.                                                   tf collapsd          unlitned
Culvrt                 Clen/romve           Imoor rePatr         NA                   Replace if          Lengthen or
oberrucetion                                                  fecxesry             strengthen
Vwoetation central     Cut gras             NA                   NA                   Remve all            NA
trio tree                                                     unergrowth
TrafUit sign           Cl1e                 NA                   Repaint              Relcp  if           Upgrade
corroded            (ePlatelnt
Clean               NA                   MA                   Replace tt           NA
necossay
Steal coneoenot        Clwe                 NA                   Sandblast 6          Replace it          Strengthen
repatnt             corroded             or widen
Apwhlt urfac           Clean                Repair potholes      Resurtae             Replace It          Replace with
(aphoalttc)          sc"e*ary            concrete dock
Tiner deck             Clans                inx/replace          Replace deck         NA                   Surface  wtth
Looae/brakan        (ttibr)                                   asphalt
pland
Ctear waterwas      NA                   Revotr erotectton   Repatr or replace   Provida extra
protection



-48-
ANNEX 3
Table 5
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Details of Physical Components
/a
Road Maintenance Equipment to be Procured: Summary of Equipment by Type and City
(Base cost amounts in Rp million)
Bandung      Medan      Semarang      SurabaVy        Total
Type of equipment                Amt.  No.   Amto  No.  Amt.  No.    Amt.  No.    Amt.  No.
Pneumatic roller                  60     1    60      1    60      1       -    -      180    3
Tandem roller                      -     -    50      1    50      1       -    -      100    2
Pedestrian roller                        -      -     -    16      2      32    4       48    6
Towed asphalt kettle              45     3      -     -    30      2       -    -       75    5
Grader                             -     -      -     -   100      1     100    1      200    2
Wheeled excavator/loader          90     1      -     -    90      1      90    1      270    3
Tractor, bucket, blade            36     2    36      2    36      2      36    2      144    8
Street sweeper                    60     2    60      2    60      2      60    2      240    8
Concrete mixer (large)            38     2    38      2    38      2      38    2      152    8
Concrete mixer (small)             8     2    12      3     8      2      12    3       40   10
Concrete vibrator, 4 hp            8     2      8     2     8      2      12    3       36    9
Tamper vibrator plate, 4 hp       12     3    16      4     8      2      20    5       56   14
Air compressor                     -     -    16      1    32      2      32    2       80    5
Lubrication jeep                  15     1    15      1    15      1      15    1       60    4
Sky walker                        15     1    15      1    15      1      15    1       60    4
Pedestrian road marker            30     2    30      2    15      1      45    3      120    8
Generator and lights              13     1    13      1    13      1      13    1       52    4
Electric welder                    6     1      6     1     6      1       6    1       24    4
Acetylene welder                   6     1      6     1     6      1       6    1       24    4
Water pump                        15     3    20      4    15      3      25    5       75   15
1-ton trailer                      6     2     6      2     6      2       6    2       24    8
Miscellaneous                     15           15          15             15            60
Tools                             10           10          10             10            40
Spare parts                       40          43           59             61           203
Replacements and
contingency /b                252          658          217            555         1,682
Total                      780        1,133          928          1,204        4,045
/a For routine and recurrent maintenance.
71i Existing equipment due for replacement during the project implementation period.
(*) To be reserve procurement.



-49-
ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Guidelines for Road Maintenance Component
Strengthening of Road Maintenance Activities
1.        Objectives.  Road maintenance activities in the project cities are
significantly under-funded and poorly managed. Consequently, road surface
conditions are generally poor. Conditions are expected to continue to
deteriorate unless expenditures are increased and management improved. The
principal difficulties are: (a) lack of street inventories; (b) lack of
traffic information; (c) no long range planning; and (d) poor accounting.
Accordingly, project objectives will be to: (a) improve technical and
financial management of periodic and routine maintenance activities of the
cities' Public Works Departments; (b) implement a five-year program of
periodic and routine maintenance by the cities in concert with Bina Marga;
(c) provide training for city professional and technical staff; and (d)
provide equipment for road maintenance works.
2.        Technical Assistance Proposed -
(a) to strengthen and, if necessary, establish road maintenance units to
carry out extended programs of periodic and routine maintenance over
a five-year period.
(b) establish street inventory and road maintenance management systems;
(c) establish annual road maintenance programming and budgeting systems;
/1   Citywide O&M organization, practices and procedures in Surabaya and
Semarang (and other cities) are under review by the Ministry of Home
Affairs (MHA) under Loan 2408-IND--Urban V as part of a national effort
to strengthen municipal O&M systems. Semarang has been chosen as the
pilot city for introduction of the revised O&M systems and testing of the
training requirements, commencing late-1986. Based on the experience in
Semarang, the systems will be introduced into other cities and a national
training program initiated. The measures to be adopted and promulgated
by MHA have been discussed with DG Bina Marga and have incorporated the
findings of the DGBM consultants. Implementation of the measures in the
roads subsector will be carried out by consultants to be appointed under
the Regional Cities Urban Transport Project in coordination with the MHA
consultants responsible for overall city O&M improvement.



-50- t
ANNEX 4
Page 2
(d) reorganize as necessary to improve efficiency and productivity of
road maintenance tasks;
(e) establish technical specifications and manuals for periodic and
routine maintenance tasks;
tf) establish cost accounting systems to identify all road maintenance
expenditures;
(g) improve effectiveness of equipment utilization;
(h) carry out a program of staff training using road maintenance
manuals; and
(i) purchase of equipment to assist city in developing its road
maintenance program.
Cuidelines for Road Maintenance Component
(a)  the cities will assume responsibility for all routine maintenance on
all streets within city boundaries and periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation on the secondary and local road system during the
project implementation period;
(b) Bina Marga will be responsible for periodic maintenance of the
primary road system during the project implementation period;
(c) Provincial governments will have no road maintenance function within
the project cities (with the possible exception of funding
assistance to the cities) during the project implementation period;
(d) City government will undertake periodic maintenance and road rehabi-
litation through contracts and routine maintenance through force
account;
(e) The following will be eligible for financing under the project:
(i) maintenance equipment and spares; (ii) actual maintenance/
rehabilitation undertaken by contract;
(f) The cities will prepare annual road maintenance programs (including
routine maintenance) for review and approval by the Project
Management Unit as a conditicn for eligibility for financing the
contract maintenance/rehabilitation under the loan.
(g) The bank will finance a five year road rehabilitation program
beginning with FY87/88;
(h) The cities will prepare a road rehabilitation program in time for
Bank financing of the FY87/88 program; and
(i) Bina Marga road maintenance of primary arterials by contract will
also be financed under the project. No Bina Marga maintenance
equipment will be financed.



-51-t
ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Training Component
Objectives
1.        One of the major objectives of the Regional Cities Urban Transport
Project is to increase the economic efficiency of the target cities by improv-
ing the delivery and maintenance of transport infrastructure and services.
One of the principal bottlenecks to achieving this aim is the limited profes-
sional capabilities of governmnt agencies and in particular city authori-
ties. The project proposes to overcome this obstacle by implementing a two-
year training program, the main thrust of which will be directed at
professionals and technicianz involved in the planning, design, implementa-
tion, maintenance and monitoriog of urban transport networks and services in
the project cities. The possibility of extending the program for a further
period will be reviewed after the first 18 months of implementation.
Training Program
2.        The training component will be implemented by a special training
unit set up within the Urban Roads Directorate of the Bina Marga (URD). The
URD will coordinate all types of training undertaken under the project. This
will include (a) special workshops; and (b) in-country training courses. The
training Unit will utilize to the extent possible existing in-country training
centers. To this end the project preparation studies have examined the
capabilities of several existing training establishments and have identified
four institutions which would initially participate in the in-country training
program. These are the Ministry of Works Regional Training Centers located in
Bandung, Jogyakarta, Surabaya and Jakarta. The distribution of courses to be
held in these centers has been determined through an analysis of the strengths
and weaknesses of existing courses held in these centers.
3.        The work program of the Training Unit would include the preparation
of course materials, the selection and training of course trainers, the
coordination of trainee enrollments, the supervision and monitoring of
courses, the evaluation of the course impacts, and the financial management of
the training program. The local training institutions would be responsible
for the conduct of all training courses with the exception of the workshops
and the computer training.
4.        The proposed program provides for the training of senior, middle,
and junior management levels as well as technicians. In some subject areas
the training will be directed at specific agencies. In other areas the
training will involve several agencies. Approximately 470 course positions
will be provided in ten course categories (25 courses) per annum over the two
year period. The average course length will be about 10 days and will range
from 3 to 12 days (see Table 1).



-52-
ANNEX 5
Page 2
Table 1: ANNUAL TRAINING PROGRAM (2 Years)
Courses          Persons        Trainee
Course categories /a                   per year          trained         days
Workshops                                  5                90             270
Traffic Management                         3                61             732
Traffic & Land-Use Planning                1                16             192
Use of Micro-Computers                     2                24             204
Transport Planning & Programming           2                30             360
Routine & Periodic Maintenance             4               100           1,200
Highway Infra. Planning & Design           2                40             480
Project Management                         2                40             480
Equipment Handling                         2                40             480
Project Preparation and Evaluation         2                30             150
Total                                25               471          49548
/a   Courses in these subjects (except workshops) will be conducted at two
levels, for senior and middle management and junior management and
technicians.
Training Topics
5.        The main focus of the training for central government staff will be
directed towards the identification, appraisal and supervision of urban trans-
port projects and will cover such topics as project organization and manage-
ment, project evaluation and monitoring. The target groups for these courses
will be junior and middle management from various central government agencies
and will therefore mainly involve young graduate engineers, planners and
economists.
6.        The main focus of the city level training, which will encompass
staff from a wide spectrum of agencies, will be on teaching the technical
skills required to plan and implement traffic management and road maintenance
programs, survey and monitoring procedures, road planning, public transport
planning, parking management, and investment planning in the urban transport
sector. These courses will be directed towards middle management involved in
planning and managing transport infrastructure and services and junior profes-
sionals and technicians involved in the day to day operations and maintenance
of transport infrastructure facilities,



-53-
ANNEX 5
Page 3
Technical Assistance
7.        Approximately 18 man-months of foreign consultant assistance (the
training coordinator) and 36 man-months of local consultants (training assist-
ants) will be based in the office of the Urban Roads Directorate and will form
a training unit of the PMU. Further assistance in the preparation of
technical training materials and in selected teaching of courses will be
provided by the project management advisors assigned to the PMU and the
project cities,!'  This supporting assistance to the full-time training
advisors is expected to be about 12 man-months of part-time consultant input
over the two-year period. The main duties of the training unit will be to:
(a) prepare course materials for the seminars, workshops and in-country
training courses;
(b)  select and train trainers for the in-country training courses;
(c)  organize courses and student participation;
(d)  supervise and monitor courses; and
(e) evaluate the courses and their impacts.
8.        The training coordinator and training assistants should have the
following qualifications and experience:
(a)  Training Coordinator:  A qualified trainer with a minimum of ten
years experience in the general area of transport planning and/or
highway engineering;
(b) Training Assistants (2): Experience in the preparation and imple-
mentation of training courses with a general background in education
and qualification in the field of highway or civil engineering.
Project Costs and Timetable
9.        Overall costs for the training component are estimated at $842,000
(base cost) for the two year period, of which about $529,000 would be provided
under the consultants advisory services contract (for technical assistance
fees and operational support costs). The remaining $313,000 would cover
travel and expenses for the course participants (see Table 2 for a summary
cost estimate for the training component).
1/   The training coordinators will be provided under the main advisory
services contract to the PMU and project cities.



-54-
AMNEX 5
Page 4
Table 2: COST ESTIMATE FOR TRAINING COMPONENT /a
US$'000
Technical Assistance
Foreign:  18 man-months @ 13,000 per man-month                        234
Local:    36 man-months @  3,000 per man-month                        108
Operational Support Costs
Local Administation & Technical Support                                32
Office Operational Expenses                                            65
Consultants Travel and Miscellaneous Expenses                          35
Training Equipment & Materials                                         55
Operational Training Costs /b
Workshops:  Senior and Middle Management                               44
Inter-agency:  Senior & Middle Management                              38
Inter-agency:  Junior Management & Technician                          30
Agency Specific:  Senior & Middle Management                           67
Agency Specific:  Junior Management & Technician                       74
Other courses to be specified                                          60
Total                                                           842/a
ia   Base cost
7T   Includes travel and expenses of course participants
10.       The training coordinator and training assistants would be appointed
by October 1987 with the two year training program commencing during April
1988. A detailed listing of courses to be provided during the two year period
(along with estimates of student throughput and costs) is shown in Table 3.



INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Proposed Training Program
Area of   Number   Duration                  Total    Number               Training
train-      of      of each   Proposed   training       of       Number    cost/       Total
ing    training  training    loca-         time    trainees      of      student/    annual
Regency staff                (project   acti-   activitiy   tion of    budget          per     trainee      day        cost
to be tralaned                status)   vities    (days)    training    (days)   activity    days          (US$)      (US$)
Special Training (Senior &
Middle Management Staff)
PMU Technical Comnittee   Workshop       1         3        Jakarta        3        14           42       95         3,900   &
Local Steering Comr-       Workshop      4         3        Bandung       12        19         228        90        18,240
mittee & CPCO                                             Semarang
Surabaya
Medan
Other courses to be specified                                                                                         60,000
Total                            5                                15                    270                 822230
_ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IU'



'ANMEX 5
-56-                                                     Pane 6
Table 3: PROPOSEM  TRUINIl PMMl (Page 2)
Ancy          Area of      NIbr        Duration     Propsd  Total          ber    Iitber  Training  lota
Staff         Training     of          of Eac       Location  training  of        of       Cost/      nual
to be                      Training    Training     of         ine      trainees  Trainee  Student/ Cost
trained                    Rctivities  Activity     Training  Budget   Per        Dys    DIy         (0s9)
(Oays)                (Da)    Rctivity             (0U)
Inter-Agecy Trainng: Senior and tliddle   epent  Staff
City Public   Traffic                2        12   RTC-TI            24        I8      432        20    8,640
Wlrs &        hasgmnt                               Bandun
LLRJR
City Planning  Traffic               1        12   RTC-II            12        16      192        23    4,416
epartnent    ad                                        dng
W  M1PPlDR II  LaUse
Planning
Public        Use of                 1        12   Private           12        12      144        il    6,901
Uorks          hicro-                               C any
a             Co,puters                             (Jalarta)
APP0DR 11
Sub-total                          4                               49                768              18,96O
Inter-Rge    Training: Junior  nagent and Technician Staff
SSPPED 11    Transport               1        12    Penda I          12        10      120        19    2,200
a City         Planning                             IC
Planning      I                                      Ndug
Progrw"ing
Public        Traffic                1        12    RIC-II           12        26      300        19    5,700
Uorks         lanent                                8andung
Public        Use of                 I         5   Private            5        12       60        Si    3,240
Iorks         licro-                                Cuwany
I              Cmputrs                              (Jakarta)
BAPPED II
Dia            Project               2         5    Jakrta           10         S      ISO        25    3,750
Harp           Prepnation
I              and
Perhbxn    Evauation
Dlrat
Sutotl                             5                               39                630              l1,970
_. - ------   -... -. - --------       - ----__  -----..   -   - - - -     -    ---------    ----------



-57-
par 7
Idlt 3 1196691111 lNOllt (h 3)
Amy          fAmd ar ha    _ ntim               P1a        lo    r Noer            Iralalg  tatW
Staff        Ifralaag    a          at tEak     Lacatm  fralaing d         oft      ot/ f
to ke                    Iraliag   IMdqAa       d         ti      I aws   1        Saiwt/ CatS
Iraind                   fotiatia  ktIity       relaa   W t   Pu           aw      In       (86)
(hyp)               (bp)   ItUdty             (a)
Romy    cfic Isnag: Sar VA Niel  _mt  Stff
PU IDI 11    Irupvt            1       12  f1l              12       20      2         n9    9,30
city         Euti                 2       12   mt-III          24       Zs      a        20    9,600
tarts        hilatusE
Piduic       DI*"g                        it   otI-III         1         0      4         0      ,0
Voria           ari te                          Jar,,
kprtrt
IU.c          raoct               2       12    it-I           24       20     U         a      9.,08
6.                            ?2
Satota                          S                            n              1,440            33,160
*c  fpafic tIralaa  JVDr He         t pon  Ti aW * dd  Staff
city         hate                 2       12   IT1             24       a      ?21      2a   16,00
Wit            eiodt                            JOWL.
Verks         lat
City        hIgiw                 I       14'  tIC-I           12       20     24        19   4,50
Pit          lafn                           |  Suaja
tarts        PlM41110
Ovtt.        I hep
Cty          ["vat                2       12   Ut-I            24       20     U         l    14,460
Palhic       boudal                            redin
wrks
DtL
SIu-tl                          5                            6              1                36,0
108L4 11 mm TM"                  25                           2"             4,55             126,43
S101 11t1 gill         ToI           - m6,4
0        rmang Cat          60,011
*                                fatal hyatbotl Cat 2 V' ru           312,91
fewO bwat^* 1d I1,11                t",km   12
rarelp Cu ltMt, 1h111IIQO            234,86
oalb ltt, 3g t 3,8            180,106
tolt. ITmr    I Rim  t_Ma            35,09
iret" E*i*t S wital                   r,im
local      I  tchicl Srt             32,R 6
Office hrstit   Er_                   65,600
tft. =lolN m1       (am Cest)        "I2,ON



-58-
AMNEX 6
Page I
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Summary of Technical Assistance
Objective
1.        The nrincipal objectives of the technical assistance component
are: (a) to support the central and local government agencies in the physical
implementation of the project; (b) to assist the Urban Roads Directorate of
Bina Marga in the preparation of further urban transport projects; (c) to
strengthens through appropriate training programs and studies, the managerial
and technical capabilities of the Urban Roads Directorate and city agencies;
and (d) to develop and implement project accounting and auditing systems.
2.        These objectives will be achieved through a series of technical
assistance contracts which will be managed and coordinated by Bina Marga
through the Project Management Unit, A brief description of the objectives
and scope of work of each contract is provided below. Table 1 sets out the
approximate man-months inputs, costs and start and finish dates.
Table 1: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
Man Months          Base cost       Start      Finish
Contract                      Foreign   Local        (US$'000s)       Date       Date
Project Management               292 /a   272 /a       4,614          4/87       3/93
Construction Supervision         132    1,122          4,521          4/87       3/93
Preparation of a Future
Regional Cities Project /b    98        180          1,814          4/87       4/89
Continued Preparation of the
Proposed Jakarta Urban
Transport Project              44        46            710          6/87       6/88
Total                       566    1,620          11,659            --         --
/a   Does not include training coordinator and training assistants to be provided in
support of the training components (see Annex 5).
/b   To be packaged as part of the project management technical assistance.



-59-
ANNEX 6
Page 2
Project Management and Coordination
3.        The objectives of this technical assistance are as follows:  (a) to
ensure the smooth transition from project preparation to project
implementationg (b) to assist in the management and coordination of the
implementation of the project; (c) to assist in supervising, monitoring and
reporting on all aspects of the project to the head of the Urban Poads
Directorate and the lank; (d) to provide technical assistance to the project
cities in road maintenance and traffic engineering; and (e) to set up and
operate a project accounting system.
4.        The consultants will be based in the Urban Roads Directorate (URD)
and in the four project cities and will work under the direct control of the
overall Project Manager housed in the URD. The principal duties of the
consultants will be to:
(a) complete all final engineering designs for the project;
(b) prepare all contract documents in a standardized form;
Cc) supervise the tendering and evaluation process for all contracts;
Sd) prepare technical standards and specifications for all civil works;
(e) coordinate and monitor the implementation of the project in the city
project coordination offices and the sub-units of the URD;
(f) prepare specifications and supervise the procurement of equipment;
(g) carry out institutional studies into the organization of the Urban
Roads Directorate and the city level agencies involved in the urban
transport sector;
(h) provide on-job training and participate in the training program
through the conduct of special training courses organized by the
training sub-unit;
(i) prepare a project implementation and monitoring manual;
(j) set up and implement a project monitoring program covering all
aspects of the project;
(k) prepare project monitoring reports covering all aspects of project
implementation and assist in the preparation of a project completion
report;
(1) prepare annual road maintenance programs and provide operational
assistance in road maintenance;
(m) prepare traffic engineering programs and provide assistance in
detailed design of traffic engineering components;



,,-60-
ANNEX 6
Page 3
(n)  prepare a suitable computer-based accounting system;
(o) implement the accounting system in the URD and the CPCOs;
(p)  train local staff in the use of the accounting system; and
(q) provide quarterly accounts for the project over the first 24 months
of the project.
Construction Supervision at the City Level
5.        The objective of the supervision contracts (one in each city) will
be to supervise and coordinate the implementation of all aspects of the
project in the target cities.
6.        The consultants will be based in the City Project Coordination
Offices (CPCOs) which were originally set up to carry out project preparation
activities. The principal duties of the consultants will be to:
(a) supervise the implementation of all physical components of the
project;
(b) participate in the local training program and coordinate the city
inputs into the implementation of the training component;
(c) coordinate with the URD and the city agencies affected by the
project; and
(d)  monitor progress and report to the URD on the advancement of all
aspects of the project.
Preparation of a Future Regional Cities Urban Transport Project
7.        The principal objective of this assistance is to prepare a future
urban transport project which will involve the four cities under the proposed
project and a further four to six cities.
8.        The consultants will be based in the offices of the Urban Roads
Directorate. The consultants will make full use of the project preparation
materials and manuals produced during the preparation of the Regional Cities
Urban Transport Project. The principal duties of the consultants will be to:
(a) assist in the identification of project cities and prepare a
diagnostic study of the overall transport and traffic situation
highlighting the main problems and bottlenecks;
(b) list all candidate components and carry out a seive analysis to
identify potential project components in each city;
(c) carry out feasibility studies for selected components;



-61-
ANNEX 6
Page 4
(d) review and rank all potential project components in terms of
economic viability;
(e) carry out an analysis of the target cities financial status and
borrowing capability;
(f) carry out an analysis of the cities' technical capabilities and
identify institutional problems;
(g) carry out detailed engineering studies for selected project
components; and
(h)  prepare/update manuals for project identification, preparation and
appraisal.
Continued Preparation of the Proposed Jakarta Urban Transportation Project
9.        The principal objective of this assistance is to continue the
preparation of this proposed project for about a one year period, by which
time the Bank loan for financing this project is likely to be effective. The
principal duties of the consultants will be to:
(a) prepare a program of low cost traffic management measures for the
DKI-Jakarta traffic engineering department (LLAJR);
(b) prepare a road maintenance program for the DKI-Jakarta public works
department; and
(c) continue the preparation of detailed designs and contract documents
for the principal project components.



-62-
Annjx 7
Projected Annual Investmet Pogram by Agency       Tabble I
seven Ybar PNg r
(in biltion rupiehs)
Dine Merpge      FY7  FY7/88 fYU/     FU/O   Fl/Il FAl/     FYW2              Total
90? Funds           -    1.s     5."8    7.68   e6.4       a48 6     .1s   R6.l6
Loans               -    3.15    615    83l"       7.86    4.00      ,4    80.77
Lons (T/AJ          -    1.86    4974    g.e6    a5.6       sl.0    1.os    28a.6
Total               -    8.03   16.27   23.77   160,6    10.57    6.51   01.8
City Of.
Bendung        FA 6  F/88 FYS/O  FYS/   FVMI  FYDi/S  FVV/0S   Total
Prsv. Fumde         -    0.08    0.05    0.0S    0.05          -       -    0.80
City Fuds       0o.4    o0.00        lol   1.o0    1.20    0.34        -    6.00
Loans               -    0.7    0.67    1,N       0.73    0.56    0.17    4.00
Total             0.4o    1.02    3.24      0e6    2.04    1 .22    0.17   10.20
City Ofs
Widen            FUS/67  FY/90 FY6V3J   FYS/  FPYOS  FM/Se FU/OS   Total
Plv. Funds          -    0.20    0.90    0.l0    olO0    ol.o    0,40    4940
City Fwnd         0.    0.81    1.083   1.14    1.01    0.80          -    4.40
Loans               -    0.21    2.66 2o.4    g2o5          0.70    0o0.   10.00
Toatl             0.5    1.2s   4,51    4.86    482    1.88    1.81   19.130
City Oft
Sm ran          FU/   FW7/88 FY8Of9  FY/O  FY/l FUI/0!  F/                    Total
----
Prov. Funds         -    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.25    1.75
City Funo        0.87    0.54    1.6  1.80         1 . 3o   0.27 0020    5.48
Loans               -    Oe6    2.0        1.62   1.E      0.30   O0O       7.50
-             -
Total            0.67    1.47    8.67    8.82    2.04    1.47    0.04   14.68
-                                                         --. ,  
City Ore
Surdys           F 17 F17/86   UWOO FP/O  FP /   FU/2 FYS/OS   Total
Prov. Funds      l,90    00,3     O.2      O2      O.2         -       -    2.50
City Funds       1.40    0.7      0.67    1,75    1.04    0.70    0,06    9.70
Loans               -    0.61    0.62    1.6e    1le.39    I.       1.04    6,l0
Total            4.00    1.68    2.04    8.67    4.08    2,04    2.04   20.40
grow Total       6oo1   11.18   26.71   87.02    3.30   17.18   11.04  145.41
- s_ .om                                             -



-63-
Anwrex 7
ProJetd Annual Investment Program by Aency      Tab Ls 3
Five Ysr Program
(in bittion rupiahs)
Sluno Narga     PUS/P  F7/8? FYWE  PU/S   FY/I FYPUVI/5  FWPUSS   Totat
80? Funds          -    1.81    8.78    7.3    8.78    8.86         -   25.88
Loans              -    3.01    7.48    8,06    7.48    3.74        -   98.77
Loans (TVA)        -    i98    8.16    8.68    8.18    8.08         -   28.88
Total              -    SI.48   20.87   3.      3 M0.87   10.18     -   78.88
City Ore
salung          FYPVW  FPW/   FYMIS/  FPU/O  PU/SI FM/09 PYU              Total
Puow. Funds        -    0.05   O0O0    0.05    0.06         -       -    0.20
City Fnds        0.44    0.6e0    1.88    1.9C    1s20    0.84      -    8.00
Loans              -    0.88    0.87    1.9!1   0.79    0.11        -    8.87
Total            O.44    1.84    2.24    8.08    2.04    0,75       -    9.87
City Ofs
fdmn            FPWU/   FPUZ/88 F 1SS   S/SO  F"         FYIV82 FUS/OS    Total
Prov, Funds        -    0.78    1,08    1,      o0e8    0.58        -    4.40
City Funds       0.80    0.6     0.88    1,22    0,74    0.45       -    4.40
Loans              -    0.31    3.68    3.94    3.81    1,O8        -    9.88
Total            0.l0    1.60    4.58    5,86    4.18    2.04       -   18.18
City Oft
Sam  FnPS    FU7/S9 FYUS/   PU/S   F/I PfM/I  FPUS/S    Total
Prov. Funds        -    o.8o   o05o    O.0    o.2    o.7            -    1.75
City Funds       0.7    0.14    0.0    1.88    0.68    0.61         -    5.48
Loans              -    0.8    1.71    3.08    1.78    0.68         -    7.08
Total            0.67    22      S.30    8.70    3.84    1.81       -   14.21
City of$
Surabsys        FY7 FP7/8 FYUOSV FPUS/O  FYP/1  FM/02 FPSOS   TotaL
Prow. Fund       1,50    0.3    0.30    0.35    O.l3                -    3.50
City Funds       8.40    1.30    1.84    1.24    1.21    0.72       -    8.70
Louis              -    1.01    R.88    1.79    1.0    0.97         -    7.54
Total            4.0    8.46    4.47    8.8    3.6S    0.8          -   19.74
Brand Total      8.51   14.07   84.88   97.42   8.08   15,47        -  140.98
-  _                            s



-64-
ANNEX 8
Table 1
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Agency Responsibilities for Project Implementation
List of Functions for Committees and Coordination Units
National Steering Committee (NSC) Functions
1. Establishes national urban transport policies/goals.
2. Encourages interagency coordination/problem resolution.
3e Determines project scale and composition.
4. Ratifies project financing arrangements.
5. Coordinates with regard to development programs in other sectors through
IUPA.
6. Lobbies on behalf of institutional reforms/reorganization.
7. Coordinates investment program and funding.
8. Monitors progress of projects towards goals.
Urban Roads Directorate (URD) Functions
1. Acts as advisory body to National Steering Committee.
2. Sets technical standards for all physical investments; reviews all plans
for acceptability.
3. Sets economic/financial review criteria for all project components;
reviews all components for compliance.
4. Conducts annual review of road maintenance and traffic management pro-
gramso
5. Provides technical assistance in the procurement of traffic signal equip-
ment.
6. Monitors project preparation/prepares quarterly reports/prepares project
completion report.
7. Reviews all contracts before signing (could delegate to CPCOs).
8. Sends all disbursement requests to IBRD.
9. Maintains contract files,
10. Keeps consolidated project accounts, requests annual audits.
11. Develops and coordinates all training programs.
12. Sets guidelines for 5 year urban transport investment program in cities.
13. Guides preparation of all foreign funded urban transport projects.
14. Conducts special urban transport policy studies at direction of (NSC).
City Project Coordination Office (CPCO) Functions
1. Reports on regular basis to PMU on all aspects of project coordination and
management,
2. Coordinates project implementation at local level with all agencies.
3. Reviews city level contracts before signing.
4. Keeps file of all contracts let in project city.
5. Keeps consolidated project accounts of all project components (city and
Bina Marga) being carried out in city. Also provides guidance and advice
to city and Bina Marga project managers in keeping project accounts.
6. Monitors all physical and financial aspects of project implementation.



INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Agency Responsibility for Project Implementation
Administration of       _                            Project execution
technical assistance for  Eiqu1pment   uivia works con-
Investing    detailed engineering and    procure-   struction/contract                                   Land
Project component                agency    construction supervision /a    ment          administration    Operation   Maintenance   acquisition
Primary roads                      BM                   URD                  BM               BM             n.a.         BM/PWD          BM
Secondary roads               BM/Prov/City              URD                BM/PWD           BM/PWD           n.a.         PWD/BM         City
Local roads                       City                  URD                  PWD             PWD             n.a.          PND           City
Traffic engineering
(civil works)                 Clty Jb                 URD                  PWD             PWD             n.a.          PWD           City
Street signing and
road marking                  City /b                 URD                  FWD             NWD             n.a.          PWD           n.a.
Traffic signals                   Clty                  URD                   BM /c           PWD             PWD           PHD          n.a.
Street lighting                   City                  URD                  PWD             PWD              PWD          PWD           City
Road mdintenance equipment        City                  n.a.                  BM /c          n.a.             PWD           PWD          n.a.
/a  Bins Marga will administer all detailed engineering and construction supervision contracts; day-to-day supervision of most will be
delegated to the CPCOs.
/b Depending on road classification provincial or Bina Marga assistance possible
77  This equipment will be procured by the Directorate of Equipment and Materials of Bina Marga.
Legend:
BM   - Bina Marga
CPCO - City Project Coordination Office
n.a. - not applicable
Prov - Province
URD  - Urban Roads Directorate in Bina Marga
PWD  - City public works department



.-66-                             ANNEX 8
Table 3
IDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Agency Responsibility for Project Implementation
Allocation of Financial Responsibility by Road Classification
Road classification
Primary        Secondary         Local
Item                                      roads           roads           roads
Land acquisition                          BM /d           P or C            C
Road construction                          BM           P or C /c           C
Corridor improvements associated
with traffic management                  BM               C               C
Traffic engineering improvements            C               C               C
Traffic signal procurement                  C               C               C
Traffic signal operations and
maintenance                               C                C              C
Street signing and road marking             C               C               C
Street light installation                   C               C               C
Street light operation and
maintenance                               c               C               C
Routine maintenance                       C /b             C /b           C /b
Periodic maintenance                      BM /a            C /a           C /a
Road rehabilitation                       BM /a            C /a           C /a
BM - Bina Marga; P - Province; C   City
/a  Bank to finance these roads, subject to work being conducted by contract.
/b  Bank will not finance these components but will review the overall pro-
gram, subject to the advice and guidance of PMU.
/c  In some cases, Bina Marga could provide contribution towards the total
Cost.
/d  In some cases, cities contribute for land acquisition.



-67-
ANNEX 9
Tabl1
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Committee and A*ency Staffing
Key Staff of the PMU) and Project Cities.
Staff
Agency/position                               from       Conditionality
Technical Assistance
Project Management Consultants               AB
Construction Supervision Consultants          A
Training Consultants                          C
Staffing of Project Management Unit
Project Director                              -
Accounting Chief                              -
Design and Supervision Unit Chief             -
CPCO Coordination Unit Chief                  -
Road Maintenance Unit Chief                   -
Second Project Unit Chief                     -
Training Unit Chief                           -
Staffing in Project Cities
CPCO Chief                                    B
City Project Manager                          B
Bina Marga Project Manager                    B
Traffic Engineering Component Chief           -        3-year college graduate
minimum
3 Traffic Engineering Technicians
Road Maintenance Component Chief              -        3-year college graduate
minimum
Project Accountant                            B
2 Accounting Technicians
Secretarial Assistance
Legend
A - Terms of reference cleared by all relevant government agencies as condi-
tion for loan negotiations.
B = Appointed as condition for loan effectiveness.
C - Draft terms of reference and action plan cleared by all relevant govern-
ment agencies as a condition of loan negotiations.



-68-
ANNEX 9
Table Z
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Committee and Agency Staffing
National Urban Transport Steering Committee
Position                                                        Role
Director General Bina Marga                                     Chairman
Director General Perhubungan Darat (Land Transportation)        Vice Chairman I
Chief of the Bureau for Communication & Tourism, BAPPENAS       Vice Chairman II
Director General Domestic Monetary Affairs, Department of       Member
Finance
Director General of Regional Development,                       Member
Department of Home Affairs
Director General of Cipta Karya, Department of Public Works   Member
Assistant to the Minister in Environmental Impact Matters       Member
Director of State Wealth Management                             Member
Director of Urban Transportation and Traffic,                   Member
Directorate General of Land Transportation
Head of the Planning Bureau, Secretariat General of             Member
the Department of Public Works
Head of the Planning Bureau of the Department of                Member
Communication
Head of Bureau of Foreign Coordination,                         Member
Secretariat General of the Department of Public Works
Head of Railway Transportation                                  Member
Chief of Traffic Police Division, Republic of Indonesia         Member
Police Force
Director Urban Roads Planning, Directorate Bina Marga           Secretary I
Director of City and Regional Planning, Directorate General   Secretary II
of Cipta Karya, Department of Public Works
Director of City Development Planning, Dito Gend. P.U.O.D.    Member
Department of Home Affairs
Director of Regional Income, Dit. Gend. P.U.O.D.                Member
Department of Home Affairs



-69-
ANNEX 9
Table 3
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Committee and Agency Staffing
Urban Transport ProJect Technical Committee
Position                                                     Role
Chief of Administration, The Directorate of                  Chairman
Urban Roads Planning
Chief of Infrastructure and Facilities Sub-                  Vice Chairman I
directorate,
Directorate of Urban Transport and Traffic
The Bureau of Communication and Tourism Staff, Bappenas    Vice Chairman II
Chief of Central Region (Java, Bali) Subdirectorate,         Secretary I
Directorate of Urban Roads Planning,
Directorate General of Bina Marga
Chief of Urban Planning                                      Secretary II
Director of the Development & Planning of                    Member
Provincial Regions
The Bureau of Communication and Tourism Staff, Bappenas    Member
Chief of Urban Economics, Directorate of State Wealth        Member
Management
The Directorate General of Domestic Monetary Affairs
Chief of West Region (Sumatera & Kalimantan)                 Member
Subdirectorate,
The Directorate of Urban Roads Planning
Chief of Planning Division                                   Member
The Bureau of Planning of the Department of Public Works
Chief of Planning Division                                   Member
Directorate General of Land Transportation
Chief of Traffic and Transport Planning of the               Member
Directorate of Land Transportation
Chief of Vehicle Inspection, Traffic Police                  Member
Railway Transportation Staff                                 Member



-70-
-An
SZflO)ML Ce uS  AW  TNP    OJt
Ptol cc tslaeatmla Schbedul sad 8Ie NetoulotIn teadcator
Pro10ct tsatmoailou schadule
CitvIconoeeaet               Agc  tU9S/II  tU98/69  I99O  ltO9/1 1t1/92  19"2/93 1"I/94
Road Costuettoa        --
Ibegun.
LUr*ar SW                   SON           XXXXIX
andar St I                   I                     xxBxuR
Liaar St 2                   ON                            UJin    SXXSX
iTtU841. I                    onS                   XXIWUO
Saht,                       Citv          xm
Wal.:                       Cttv                   IhZUU
AkUwa                        a                              xxo t   XXDUmXX DIXX
Sutrisso                     a"KXX
9isto    I                   am           3m
P1t5timrs  I                 Ul           U1R
Juutb."                      SN
Slil agt 2                                SXDXXS
".j  Bridge                                                         URnSK  USIXXX  XXlXXX
Calt sag. I                 Cmty  mr                                                      mm
DUsl    lr altl mci tyVA
Corr. Stated.               city                                                  --m-
Carte. I                   Clty  M
Corr. Ia                    Cit                    Xm ter     n 
Corr. I V                   City    t       m
Corr, Il                    City                     tIn  m t
Corr. 4                     City  mU
city          mCKX- mZ            m
-Iffibm ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    tafi miese
caroect"                    city  tU mU  mU mx mxv
Inotet  oo ottp                        K   U       3  SX=1CK          -S
Sign sad ur8ln              city JOmm   3mai   3Lai   suI  X=NK
i-a
in  eds                       it            BMClCK mRim         U
taterzetteee                Cltv XUCK  mnnit XmXC  tl0t  axUm=
S4a aOd t:dlto              Ctty *MM   mum                 Uri=   ulat
CtIDO     dttd  Xtm                                        S WmW=
Ineetaeocto   c             Cip   m C XX)t         UimR t     RI 
Sign  ad                          N22Ii1E 1C222   22 2t Ui0Etg S
seaften ~  ~     ~      aIIclAultno n  raes
advlsog  foo geds  0500       S    R25          u USU   Imm22  XXKXIU
Consirelasgvsc
sic5r sadt Soe"  reo    City          I  ER     t  sm=        2 I22=25   2K
ftm   ^toto"  l               Km=  ZXtt MMKK m n  UStC  XUK
_     viiF    SW tocal, crad    City :t~   inlC   XlI)           Xt 
P tmcy cood                  mmX LUt       xmK xvmt         L        xmt
Soeqa"rv ad local reood     Cttv Xt Dm       m    xxmt      XsXUXM
Prtmry  1111         S       XX19Xlt X=            xxxtz XWm         MM
-   -         -      techatc l ~~~A84s*ta aco Om Tnataggg        --        -     -
tr tir4 toet to soo    NXC                              t W      XL      n
Conruettea apwoftotc
elmtats                      1|1  =mlX    mm=t x         t m m    XXI



-71-
ANNEX 10
Table 2
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Keu,Implementation Actions, 1987-88
Responsi-      Implementation
Action                                                bility    Start date  Final date
Road Construction and Corridor Improvements
Review tender documentation                            Bank          04/87        05/87
Invite tender                                          BN/Cities     04/87          -
Evaluate tender                                        BM/Cities     06/87        07/87
Appoint contractors                                    BM/Cities     07/87          -
Implementation                                                       08/87          -
Traffic Engineering, Signing and Marking
Review tender documentation                            Bank          04/87        05/87
Invite tender                                          BM/Cities     06/87          -
Evaluate tender                                        BM/Cities     07/87          -
Appoint contractors                                    BM/Cities     08/87          -
Implementation                                                       09/87          -
Traffic Signals
Review tender documentation                            Bank          04/87        06/87
Invite tender                                          BM            06/87          -
Evaluate tender                                        BM            07/87        08/87
Appoint contractors                                    BM            09/87          -
Implementation                                         BM            11/87        12/87
Land Acquisition
Complete land acquisition for second year program    BM/Cities       05-87          -
Road Maintenance Equiment
Complete tender documents for procurement              BM            05/87        08/87
Bank review                                            Bank          06/87        08/87
Advertise prequalification                             BM            07/87          -
Prequalify suppliers                                   BM            07/87        09/87
Invite tenders                                        BM             10.87          -
Evaluate tenders                                       BM            12/87        01/88
Bank review                                            Bank          12/87        01/88
Appoint Suppliers                                      BM            04/88          -
Technical Assistance
Appoint consultants for project management             BM            05/87
Appoint consultants for construction management        BM            08/87          -
Training
Prepare training materials for first-year program    BM              09/87        03/88
Select candidates, revues and lectures                 BM            09/87        03/88
Implement first-year program                           BM            -            04/88



-72-
ANNEX 11
Table 1
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES UR!BAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Procurement Guidelines
Summary of Contracts by Type of Procurement
Number of contracts
Prudent   Force
ICB      LCB   shopping  account   Other  Total
Road Construction                  2      14         -         -       -       16
Corridor Improvements              0       9         -         -                9
Traffic Engineering
Central business district       -       12         -        /a       -       12
Intersections                   -        7         -         -       -        7
Signing and marking             -       16        16        /a       -       32
Traffic signal equipment        2        -         -         -       -        2
Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance
Works                           -       38         -        /a       -       38
Equipment                       -       16        10         -      /b       26
Technical Assistance              -        -         -         -        5       5
Training                          -        -         -                 -        -
Total                        4      112        26     n.a.        5      147
n.a. = not applicable.
/a  Number of force account activities will be determined as part of prepara-
tion of each annual road maintenance and traffic management program.
/b Some equipment purchases under reserve procurement.
Note: Contract Approvals by Indonesian Government as follows:
Less than Rp 200 million                    Approval by mayor or governor
Rp 200 to 500 million                       Approval by Public Works Ministry
More Than Rp 500 million                    Approval by SEKNEG



INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Procurement Review Procedure
Prior review requirements
Aggre-                                     Rilt                                      Post-award review
Procure-         gate                 Inst. to   Tech        of                Bid                      requirements
ment          limit       Adver-   bid/gen.   specs.  quanti-  Contr.  eval. &  Prequalif.   (contr. documents
procedure          (S)     tisement    cond.   6 plans   ties         doc.    award   procudures   bid eval. & award)
Equipment
> $200,O0o                  ICB         no limit      /a, /b        /c       |f        j        Jh         th         Ai           Not applic.
< $200,000                  LCB       $1,300,000         /a       7Te       none      none    none        none      none                a
<  $50,000             LCR (prudent    SO0O,000         7?&         ?       none      none    none        none       none             Ji, te
shopping)
Civil Works
> $3,000,000                IC          no limit      Ia, /b        Id       Jf                 bh         Jh         li           Not applic.
> s ,00on,o000lC                        no limit        Tae                                    Tj  7      7a          71?          Not applic.
< $1,000,000                LC8                         7          7 ?      no-e      none    none        none       none            /j, Jk
LCB (force      $900,000        7?         7?_      none      none    none       none       none              a, 7
account)
Technical Asststance           -          no limit       Ia, lb       /m        -         _       /h         'h         /1           Not apvlic.
/a General adverstisement placed in "Development Forum."
71? Optional specific Advertisement placed in "Developent Forum."
W   Documents to conform to provisions of Bank's "Sample Bidding Documents for Procurement of Goods."
7   Documents to conform to provisions of Bank's "Sample Bidding Documents for Procurement of Works."
7?  Bank concurrence tnitially required on advertising procedures and general conditions.  Then Bank prior review necessary only if
changes are made in the procedures or standard agreements.
/f Standard specifications to be used; specific provisions to be used as and when necessary.
7   Nonstandard documents specific to contract and not prevtously revieved by Bank.
t All bid evaluations and award recommendations.
7? Procedure to be reviewed by Bank.
9 Review by World Bank, Jakarta Office.
T Recording and reimbursement by Statement of Expenditure (SOE) procedure.
7B Bank review of consultant short lists.
; Documents ot conform to Bank's Guidelines for the use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers.
.13



-74-
ANNEX 12
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(In US$ million)
Cumula-       Cumula-      Sector
Disburse-      tive dis-       tive         profile
Semester ending            ments        bursement         (            (%)/a
Dec 31, 1987                0.8             0.8            2            1
Jun 30, 1988                1.7             2.5            5            6
Dec 31, 1988                2.5             5.0           10           11
Jun 30, 1989                4.0             9.0           18           20
Dec 31, 1989                5.4            14.4           28           29
Jun 30, 1990                5.8            20.2           40           40
Dec 31, 1990                5.8            26.0           51           52
Jun 30, 1991                6.1            32.1           63           62
Dec 31, 1991                5.0            37.1           73           73
Jun 30, 1992                4.2            41.3           81           79
Dec 31, 1992                3.4            44.7           88           85
Jun 30, 1993                2.2            46.9           92           90
Dec 31, 1993                2.0            48.9           96           95
Jun 30, 1994                1.6            50.5           99           98
Dec 31, 1994                0.5            51.0          100          100
/a Urban sector profile for Indonesia.



INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Land Acquisition
Structures
Right-                            to be 8prtially or totally demolished
Road        Proposed        Agency         of wav             Households       Total                     Structures
City/road            classt-      start of      ftnanctally       cost      Hec-       to be       number of    Peresnent    with build-    CoMpletion
link name          ficatton   constructIon   responsible   (Rp sln)   tares   relocated    structures   buildings    tng oerditn   Status    Date
O1n ar SW            PA         1981/88          City /a         440       2.h3        26            19            14              7           702    03/87
LingkAr SE I         PA         1989/90             3m         1,525      15.63       710           552           325            243           102    03/88
L*nkaf St 2          PA         1989/90            8M         2.125 I
Corridors            -          -                   -            IS0
tntersections        -          -                   -            250
Subtotal                                                   4.490      18.26       736            571           339            250
Madan
TArat                  SA          19R9/90           City          288       1.00       109            107            65             17          O0    03/88
Sutrisno             SC         1989/90             am           216        -          85            85            S8             50           OX    03/88
Sistngam I           PA         1987/88             -            250       2.50        RI            81            37              35         80X    03/87
Stsitgam 2           PA         1988/89             -            250
Subtotal                                                   J.004       3.50       275            273           164)           102
Semsx                                                                                                                              --n8                   3
Kahgave I            PA         3989/90             BN           301    -----  (not vet finaltzed)                         ----- 0S    03/89
North ring I         PA         -                   sm           670      12.23        48             8             3              38         60X    03/87
North rtng 2         PA         -                 City        2,160       15.l 0       56            35             0              0           02    03/88
Corrtdors            SA         1987/88             gM           187                                                                           M02    02/87
Traffic
engineering                                                     27
Subtotal                                                   3.345      27.83       102             43             3             38
MOW-t                PA         1987/88          Ctty /I       3,300       O.90       300           370            90              60          20X    03/87
Sungkono             SA         1987/88          City mi       1,600/b    1.00        170           160             0               0          20X    03/87
Past-West ltnk       SA    14 88/89                City        .IO(xr                      (not yet finaltzed)           - -                  10X    01/88
Sutoa                                                      1iP         I90        470           S30             90             60
Subtotal                                                   6-O        .L2          2..2                        2              
Total                                                     14.839      51.49    3.583          1.417            592            450
/a  am to construct the road.
7   includes Wentern Corridor t.
Note:  PA - Primarv arterial
SA - Secondary arterlalF
PC - Primary collector
sc - Secondary collector



Ur$* sor             au ls **e lo    41V
Dol t          ar         r      ae   "Ilwe           au *lI'1 IM  eAV
*-s    inow         a    W, t3s r          WU          gad ciq  *i'
lsXee"s" "setim *qDe
ureB    ves   irpt   IX'B;   10,'&    vlNt             _pw   _1flkeoi
Uls    Ulu3   10lo1   SPl I         lo    %rotI UP'S            I, IcmS4u".08
Ulu&   ws"   WasG    sr          steG    Ire;          -     1 iamoom
ijos .el I'010=011 .Wt1
BI`'S    M33      M.,  33*W     555    U'          PS"i umbAsJpom  i.u1dm
Otl;   OBL    1g'         GZ  IU  v       Ys  *t            -a _Oljs   t 4-0
uoik  iwI       US        Steel   VW*   iwr           usi 1       a .Am rm         o
*;  SS'II   em's   os's    so's   301'S    r#                 3Orev3as
UI'I   eu        sU3     a5       SD'I   I'I               'llbl le01446 0 010 '10
SI      SI       WI      08~~~081,& at     M8      M8                     f5"1S    5
13               saess, Awe'  on.,S    M'S    Os's0   a"3'                           16303-110     WA
Be               wes    ams   5"&a    tos          14,  uo           e          W
-  -  -    -       -        -              (smTs.ia-r-  sa0uw,L vwsj
owe   55         UseI    U5II   55                                           am 5
K       US'S    WI'I    UI'I~ow   Iwo   311        3*                       IOWA-4m
es          e3~Bull    ; m ee on's        Mat,    eM ow                                  amen *
tw      go       so                                   uI1iTd  a*&  "Men
0S    at         Is      in5      3M1      MI                           ,111 l
OS          US'?   530'    SB'S   US'S    GaI    OzS                            1631
{swr  o          fl                        SW           _           l           a
111S    Ki      11t'    Dt13     -        013-
5           551'Sau           gm'0    US'     OS'S   055'             46*A 9     )10ti j-55A ndi
s      ;        Mae   "Weel     a's          e 53t1as le                            -likwe
St               two    we    911, eM ES           2s4w   "ue                    sla
- ~          ~-                  m    8
0   -            35            S  53'S      'NSM S' w        ea's AL"           l
(13  ~        ur *'4  *M'I WiS   SiUS   3*35   ISAW   wOS4    nS
$ ~    ~     e o               U        t       U'        r tAtel   }ZQl
oft                    SUe"   '   RM  AO' SZDVs ofTM0fNON*
133043  1      R A?  | l     t1                     '
w             101       o is) u*ess  lUSui m             s ee ^9L
e          Ze"s   - j.ozru* Jzo s3v   iwmn suz.z  _'waox ou
e;   #te a~~-L-'""b'  X_ 



-77-
flGON   CZ?ZISU 1363TUNOT  PIoJUCT
IC?A  STATNI   OF7 PS_W T CMtS
cm  s  Mm    81a1. waon            t Iia guidul
1675/   1685/S  1861/  "We/  "am8   to"/US   (5131
GvIt Grots                       1,4    l,181    6,707   S,7t   4,3    4,64                    3
P.evlmlt Tom                                 -        -       -
Lete TawaeItrgse                 2,43a  32,7    4,m71   S,2       001;   7,814                t
TeAt  1elle  Sooge          4,618   8,9      7,45    Os"    16,78 1 11, I
Ujesi
bpWiture                         ,35    4,9806.111   6,SIM    68O    10.43                     so
Twe-peat 8.l    .2            1 b)       U7S 1         1 f  41 1  4016
. trpti                     I'Ml6    loin    low     8111      3II   1,JN
FtJoae ran  brle      ar                   So 1   1  1,087  83n   18       lW
ttltepsf     l"foo *             iA10 t.OM  tJ47   m    to                 to
19*3                                       93li 6t3        l 93l 1,18    1,661t                05
Iost Te"                             -                -       -        -     10
SW-Tort                     1       6,        0      6,818 S,10   4,6                   go
arm"                                01     3        1n       es    1N         -
hw,                                $16 1 ,1 I     1,88    1,111  ce        1,36
SW4-01t                      810   0,13t   1,6       1,t1,     9      1,o               17
Ltm                                                         se -  -  as  -   8,8
gutla tfo"       1-                          -        _          _       _
90b-Ts"tU                                              Om9        6   8.448              as
YTWAL 6rAL3ut FME                   6,00    4,513   4.816   4,90   4,311   9,86                   is
a*bT*t                      2*        t99    Si        SIM    Do  l,Zt            
Dab* frie   rn                       Is      a        ,so tJo         1111    u s 
- ~~~ ~ ~ -
bei.6                                     1.7   1,87   1,5           63       3
Ots,                           1,5    6,1s   6,918   0,81    1,705   0,93
Turn    ateSM                   9,833j RX   8,458   8,AY   3,84    6,891   S,IM
* bet 69,'vla @,tega                15      3        t6l    118      118     188                6
8t5. to be a.ntlt 9t.              93    1,051   1,11t      Sl1   I,'      1,8s=
TOTAL D  .ginA   76                 2,0t=    42"   4,1    4,19    4#03    68              
FIm. 7t3 3lt475t
La.t Tege1'bRtla  b_ee      75.8    evM       8.6    60,3   86*s   61.8
lIIIt _Atasupme Fd          17t.85   U6.85   I7.=    IS,      U4.11   1S.75
Id'St m*9aat_m lPet FM    83         e 81.    8.8    06.1    77*    84.8
6eewmetermt_ _d             3.       4.a     Agin 26*    6.6    OR.O  1n.11n
r_vetpn   Ieds .4                     O.A     cis    S6.       0.3    IDA
not fylla btfeedfi
O37b.'r.w                   OeS   1.1n    1.186   sm    SI.M            o
coyb,.rest. 8tf5ll.         0.m      0.6   1.7B    458    sin    1IM
CMftbe,,eat. Ibt5..          9.2     2.I     9.8A    7A.8     4A3   4X7
be-es  tiaelwt City ftb       w et ft 8d



b-m   Jo    _mq Uto 1840.0"  ,ee
Ift5"   WV    391.   SWO   so's   $WI            'wi's 11O1101"ft-
ers  $W'   fWas   Mrs           r t    Ws es  *s1 e       1W
M11"41"q 41os11 sea
as     U.S   3*       Ull5  J&s    S's           fl+  *~~aoow
Wus   sa   *asp    Wel,  i,   Ms$                 Iseiwm mA v.
3.55   355    wa*s   is's   ow        gru   se~ su8tsaaos 
wsc   wss    woos   woe   wo s         r     pn  was-on" owqmisioa
we    WU    alft   Ollft   00`0    WU  "Msau
*          r~~~On's   Is's   Owls  *us.    Met'   i's              seMi AINN&VOIN  WAne
*      @WS   25    #5        53      53 'G                 ""  egos ISe
*              ownS  SW'S- 555'   WI'S..  SW'S  fo'S            SIUUomS 4IE1s     WAAL
Go ~ ~ e           Mello    owee      Aw  Sol   ras    P    _       eo1
U'B D'O        O-W6   ow  &  1111*0   I eBlt_
S  55  5 t  51o       SS      UIt =I                    eu  .        l t
lMet   a                       "a   ON1S 11wt   at               D         Ol  J -11110
GUs    r n     ess'   Ns'    "Os'    at
u              214*8          O ns es  9as   IN't   Ms
-  -  - -U. -  - .-
Ous'   Meet   m'    ans        m'   ORSin
a              4044    Aw     Gu      TU     sB      tw                            V"|w 
*          ass's~  ms'   as'   wes'   us'    us                  m-om    Ood
us's   us's  sum's    u's aus'   aStesid
)~~~~~~~W               18)# O             l B              (Idl 'DV  1ot A
S          555'S  555s   655    SI       USB    51U5
us     u  -           us      ast        em;   -                      _s~ws  i
- -
sre   son                            met   as       asre 
tU   llU'$   "  Ub'  810    B      Q                        1~~OM  let~Au
IS             tw's   ass's  SW'   Mrs    ants   own                         osWsISS11
us    "a M    os's   u'         s   us'                              1 
"ewe AV                -      -       -      -       -                    W   1SW
*gow         we's  urn's   m'   .          ss      so's                     Wo'S A'AS
set= ease   miwlss w,s    M2    _nsmi ~ a
t~  uss~' ess s) saw      ia w,mmu uo x
-i     l               3UIUS tmOS~ 0 SINUWY   WflsEYMZ
s ~ ~    ~ ~ ll   Ils                  l IIB  s1
31    .         "@                    Y IH           W 
IIDOOdEI 9  BI -gt-1"



-79-
0W C0          p mom s         "A"                      Au 1  4
100l0 10S 3It       /U 1F "L =  1 4                     118 t4
20 tt "3 -m   O                                              t  )
lnuT e.'.o                      .0M    4.0M    00,74    7.0    *0.0    1 08
Tow. beOe. m              0,10M   10,40  13,014  %0.4   17.08   01017U
m lef. te0    0.44   1,0 W                              8.73   lots"1  11,110
ite.A,be                      S-t10110)    10t                 m 100
b,pl*z                         11n   0.00S  1.710 1.3    3.01    t,0                     So
n "  b    .}      s silal sIt"1    l awl    .M    Ism    so=
-     na-17"JS
belu rha Pr.t   _ee              -      s 0    t 1 1 1.10      06    1.00
b.pte ri b"eim a                 m      .0    3.0    1.m        No    .40
lAmBS .                   1,S0=    1,51   1.060    1.0   3.01    1s0
0t*-t e                        006     4010    So= t    . 104 1.8      3fi                1
IV*= T.t70 *  .ra * t
Om                                to      _8       _       _       -     tos
hate                      -       -       -       -       -     306-- 
1.6f1 3f114   3.05 0#=   .015  U0   i4,                  f0
Sam. to1.b0                            0.73   I'm        *     ism     I0011
701RUM *         11 030           60301  10,040  M17.0  14,714  10   10.00                   10
La" *8.                   0.ntm Rom~   G&A13     4. 36  3,8A3  1I.    0.71
'WOi ?eeTe Pee0                    -       -       -       -       -       -
_C000                          0.18   0.106t  10.1ia   "As "is   0,f  0OAS
*_t1G                     0.00  1b,    tt2    10,80   11.0   10.10                  14
*   *to t ftee gnges a       33     4At  064  .             063   0A.
1010.06I6WA WaZWom      P      ,81 10.40"A   10.38  1.4.   1OM8  14.304
10t1.    o0S  w      P..-   09.810  W3         A 5.1  am7'   10.80    1,80            13
t_rStam     Cit.   et 06.    8.753   40.73           .8l  0618   tmi1
Oamt       got. ftm10. F    00    10.3    1.    1.*    Sim    30J,
Qe45tg4p ees               13.4 of         17.4   00.4   08    0
be.m    *105 005 0s6.s et be SvhG8ep



* -80-
ANNEX 14
Table 5
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Key Assumptions for Municipal Financial Projections
1.   The projections are made in current prices with an inflation rate assumed
at 6% for 1985/86-1986/87, 10% for 1987/88, 5% for 1988/89 and 3.5% for
1989/90-1994/95.
2.   Central and provincial government grants for the project cities would
remain constant at current levels in nominal terms for FY87/88-FY89/90,
and would increase at the projected 3% rate of inflation for FY90/91-
FY94/95.
3.   Local tax revenues would increase at 5% p.a. in real terms over the
period 1985/86-1994/95.
4.   Property tax revenues (PBB) would increase at 7% p.a. in real terms over
the period 1985/86-1994/95.
5.   Recurrent and development expenditures would increase in nominal terms at
projected rates of inflation over the period 1985/86-1994/95.
6.   In addition to projected general recurrent and development expenditures,
programmed development expenditures for ongoing and new projects based on
the data given by the project cities, and the proposed project
expenditures based on the current cost estimates and financing plans are
incorporated in the projections.
7.   Debt service payments for existing loans are based on the data given by
the project cities and for the processed RCUT project are based on the
projected proceeds of the Bank loan to the project cities with the terms
for 20 years, including a five year grace period, at an on-lending rate
of 10% p.a.



-81-                                                     1
IONESIA                                               AN  14
Table 6
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Disbursement Of Loans And Debt Service For Seven Year Program
(in biLLion rupiahs)
City Off
Bandung      .    FY88/87  FY87/88  FYft/9  FYSO/V90  FYbO/9I  FY8I/92  FY9PVS3    Total
Disbursement              -     0.37      087      1.21      0.79     0.59      0,17     4.00
Acc'latod Interest        -     0.02      0.09     0.21      0.34     0.43         -     0.43
Annual Interest           -                  -                  -         -     0.48     0.4
Level Payment             -        -         -        -         -        -      0,58     0.58
City Ofs
Madan              FY9S/97  FY87/88  FY8989  FY89/90  FY9O/91  FYSI/92  FY92/93    Total
Disburanment              -     0.21      2,88     2.94      2.51     0.70      0.99    10.00
Acc'leted Interest        -     0.01      0.17     0.5B    o0.3       1.05         -     106
Annual Interest                              --                           -     1.18     1.18
Leval Payment             -        -         -        -         -        -      1.39     1.39
City Of:
Samerang          FY88/87  FY97/U8  FY8S/S9  FY89/90  FY90/91  FY91/92  FY92/93    Totae
Disbursement              -     0.63      2.01     1.92      1.55     0.90      0.s0     7.50
Accolatad Interest        -     0.03      0.19     0.42      0.03     0.79         -     0.79
AnnuaL Interest           -         -           -               -        -       l0.98   0.99
Level Payment                                -                           -      1.04     1,04
City of:
Surabaya          FYBSW87  FY87/88  FY8D/S9  FYSS/S0  FY919I  FY9i/92  FY92/93    Total
Disburement               -     0.61      0.82     1.89      1.89     i.28      1,94     8.20
Acaltatod Intorost        -     0,03      0.12     0.28    047       0.67         -     0,87
Annual Intesrest          -        -         -        -         -        -      0.87     0.87
LeveL Payment             -        -                  -         -        -      1,14     1,14



-82-
an="^ crngJ on" S"pWW  PR*=                                                                    AM 14
61dt 14
twin  M" lo P               We       MS  m IMM ,"on ,", *M,,V    M
GOVA     Insts      1  lm              t-   3M"   PUOJt1 S I'm                    IN ?                        _*I
Pt"X"ttolil tam                    II     011   021,1 9u   1, 61         1 3,11  1a l        , l,P3              1,   2,e0s 2e,l *
Local Ttahopis                      9,34S    1,9"   11,39   13,2H9   14,19    31,7   11,1S   1,64   20.221   21,9    23013                            2
tOMa   Win       w           11,km9   1,1   1,11    21,j     4   23,12      1,43   14,12   27,1    2           U, n,e1   34,04
itng)
t,posd o                           O39U  e   11,112   16,32t   17,94   1O,951   19,511  21,194  21,         21,62   22,    23,113                    4
Wolfs                         3,076    3,44    3,6n    3,92    4,01    4,5    1,94    I,n1             O        9,492   10,91
su,rls frot Prpo  VW                  69     1,071   2.M       2,2%     2,329    1,1       1,00     1,17     2,601    41,4     6,062
bopluo from htlul       Alt         3,7      3,44     3,13    3,2    4,01    4,5    5,946    ,016    6,94              ,492   10,112
Prqorty tax I14 & 0                 1,26t2    1,449    1,6     I',m      2t090    2,362    2*49    2,93    3,2"    3,660    4,42                     s
I"oelata tt on6s                               1        I6 t      i n1     141      III      III      14      195to     212      23                  2
841-Teta)                     3,09     6,049    7,094    6,246    6,9.11    9,311    9,646   11,903   14,237  10,010   23,295
Braat                               1,471    1,s9     1,711    1,714      ,       1,71t     1,174    1,3     1,902    1,69    2,03                    I
two$                                2,M      3,411    1,257    3,52     3,257   S3           Im ,3 1  ,4     3,m      3,m      3                      I
641-to.4l                     4,26     4,64     4,92    4,2    4,9n         4,m 2     ,4      s,m 1,2    s1,o            s,
Lm$
SW    I ttlp 6 ofrols l             2,000   1t,42                                -        .       .
kVt1 lltp Iruoapl                                       10    1,400    1,400    1,100        630                          -                          s
Urbs TrfopWt Project                                      -      370       7      1,210      m        1e       1t7                                   6
abtrs                                 46       256      so       so        u        666      132       0       4        in 41,01                     S
6-1totel                      2,44U  i ,1       1,4t0    2,320    2         2,97S     2,32    13       1,96       94    I,0n
11T11  e51.00011 FM                   11,74   12,391   13,6     IS,530   16,19   17201   17,345   11,14   14,67   29,M    30,262
3101131  EMIT11U
9.a,  951  *U9    993    1,092    1,146    1,107    1,3 I,m   1 ,227   1316    I,3       1,409                 4
uIte treasport Pro t                                    440    1,020    2,240    3,6       204      1,220      110                                   6
0                                   1,746      32       432      416       24       SR m                        3       1o 2       -                 1
ab,                                 7,616    6,464    9,a    10,00   1T,14   1,004   11,337   H,11,           12,14   12,70  13,010                  4
Sd-total                      0,453    9,79    Hi=    12,6        14,494   1S,71    11,24t   14,90    14,30   14,114   14,419
Sit Iwv,co buio:
-= uw                           240      m        200      200      2U?        u7       a        1        17       17        n 
-1U 0IIP fraa.o)                                  32       32       32       342        42      32       32        42      342                 s
-1W  11 (KIP kraoql.                                                                            610      616      610      410                 I
-gWri   t rt Projnt                   -                           -                                      4o 16 ., 6
.01kw                                              -      - -        -       -      --s-.  -    - IN  29   41       50 
Si-total                        240       2       142      "2       15       39        3N     1,10     1,M7     1,1      2,029
TOTAL ttt13  (1531t1                  10,693   1,119   I,1M     13,124    1s1,o     16,13    11,60    16,613   16,99   16,0    16,441
ktl. to be curiod 01.               1,0f1    2,272    2,2%     2,329    1,16    1,OU       1,744    2.601    4,70    *,W9   13,014
30TOt EWLIWI R:                      11,764   12,3S1   13,6   11,6   1,9   U,201   17,341   1,614   2,W47   24,1t    30,262
F1MXIlL IflICtftR
UOt  ttatl  et  Fft $,                                       -      2.4n     5.2       7.1      C.al     3.       0.60
TOR  Eo.ftotal Rbet Fto                             .        21     6.61 *3.2 Is   17.n         It.61    *6.      0.n
totogsrt atp.Itolto  Oest FM"            r. 1.21  7.41    n.       13.6t    2.11    24.75   1L.         IS4       ,1,t     1       4s.n
kmit Mtce Uatint
1wiho1,.1Ut.011.                         L2       3.9      4.       4.11     4.01      2.0      2.41     1.41    L6        6.3      7.n0
|If'.  al. ta lt,   d.                   4.an      .31      .9      6.1      6.21    3.91       3.6 9..3         1 21    11.01    Ln
1ts,..  l1. hoilld.                      1.41     4.3      9.6       .11     641      4.01      4.t  1S          14.91 u    .n        13.3
1.  Ctaelot St   rt  1e  ,a is  aus       l tam   for I   -W1949I9, .1a   480 "i   31  p... IV  1to      m"-9
2.  ReHl otrtM Un ... for                     VA-9t , .d uoOlatic  101 P.m. hw  I1711, 3 0.m. IV  19510,   a3.3 P.. Ow 10191-191.
3.    01 grtl  n2 P... fw  1s1Flt391, .0  IdlotFo  In p... 4w  twin1, n  P.m. Ow  1 6, 6 L.3.I. iw  19"80/1-199
4.  no real geuti, ad silOtgt*ir  1t  .. iw  19W19,a P.m.  rw 1"4, I 3.11 p.o. Ow  1l               1-ltf
S.   km  ast b t10  Iotal    k  tY  at104      -M.,e   Go kg",
6.  bkm   a  00  cmi eattuite  4s foito,t pM lusr tb 10 po)oo  I KW   epro,t.
hotl  r0t0 .ta    ud   esflai    ttat Or 111w       14a 101  ar  gtieo       st a21 9..      p.m., tOctl,oy, Ow ri ta,, $ Oowlbot
ooi)twee, atddoo 01ad go ueloptt tesphturn.



-83-
REGIONAL CITIES Uwn TRSPRT PROJECT                                                               km" 14
tdele 
Ctmt v  KM     MttO  fiUlEL  STS1RIT  taluits  rupoabst
2964/5  19t85)6  l96   1W97/U  1996119  1W/9               1990191  1991/92  199293  1931/    13419            hsulotions
OUTINE ACCMUtN
Gov't Grants                         4,604    4,90     5,1         in,1 35,173    5,173    5,354    5,542    5,735    5.936    6.144 
ev. free turianals, bRkets, etc                         ,92      4 m       .N40    2.122    4.431    24494    2,681    2.         2,993                  5
LKo.' tazxeChIarpu                   7,31I    8,140    9,000   10.14    11537   12,551   13,6U2   14,809   14.093   171,4    19,006                      2
total Routine Rbeene          t.119    13,021   20,131   20.193   19,110   19.933   23,4122,83    24,509   24,408   28,133
Expenditures                        tO,402   11,247   12,160   13,376   24,O      14,556   15.041   15,572   16,117   le,681   17,204                    4
irluts                         1,516     .74    T,9        M,91     5,066    5,29     8,366    7,2        ,'t92    9,727   10,368
1EVELOT CCOUIt
Surolus fras Pru,ieu  Ye1r0 ,                 27       7,31      7,24     t,9      4,       2,165    2*7S    3,400    4,680    ?,609
Srplus fro  Rotin  A/c               2,:16    I7       7,999    6,817   5,066    5,27    9366    727m    9,2    9,m              10,6
Prop tv Taa 2(9P5*A PM1)             1,1    1,861    2,111    2,485    2,791    3,091    3424    3,791    4,199    4,65           51 3IN
Lcailtaese                             100      103       it?      132      140       143      157      165       174      194      I"4 
Su-totsl                      4,647    5,417   17,541   16,670   14,937   23,12   14,111   14,202   14,166   19.241   23,822
trnts                                    -                 -         -    s   -
lear nJ3                                      1,424              1,509     1       1,509    1,5t2    1,b16    I,67      1,732    1,792
Sib-Total                      1,343    1,424    1,59    1,509    1,  1,50             1,562    1,416    1,673    2,732    I,72
Urba  TrasWrt Lons                           -             -       210    2,60    2,940    ,510         700      93                   *                  i
CarT:rLaud      -1                              570                           -        -             -             -                  -
=1belo, It1-111                          -    S1 01t                                                     
NU,                                      22,650                 -             - -           -             -                  -        -                  5
Other                               2,446                                -         -             -                          -         -                 5
kb-total                      2,444   1,496                  210    2,660    2,94     2,510       700       900
tOTAL OEVELQfNIT fi99:                   ,436   13,537   19,050   18,M7    9,106   17,684   13,183   14,518  12,919   20.972   25,614
IEELWOT EXP1TU
Roa"s.
*On-qarnq Pruymo                 s         n       103       113      119      123      127       132      136      141       146                 4
-MP-                             113      122      132       145      15S      153       163      169      275      151       19                  4
-trhan Transprt Preojct            -               500    1,320    4,510    4,39      4,320    20    1,80             *                           6
Others
-IEp                           1,230    2,330    1.436    1,582    1,661    1,719    1,779    1,841    1,904    1,97    '2.041                    4
-0thtrt                       5,192    5,414    6,069    6,676    7 010    7,256    7,50 S       7,772    ,044    8,326    8,61?                  4
ub-total                      4,62      7,161    0,242    9,S63   13,452   14,145   13,8II    12,794   11,641   10,621    09.92
Obt Sonic. Charun
-Urba  Traprt PropJt              -                           -          -  --                           1,168    2,390    1,390                  6
-Cr  t o TeeISal                        s   -      4499     49"      49        742      742      742       142      742      742                  5
-Naret-Loods III-IV               -    3912    2,728        6400                          -        -                           -                  S 
-NI                                        -       174      348      349      348       M4       341      346       348      I4
-gIber                          139       150      162      275       169      204      t21      24        240      263      2                    5
13  ___1............          _ _  ___ ___._
Su-total                          3       62    3,562     1,622    1,033    2,4    1,31I         , 324    2,9     2.743    2,753
TOTAL IlEVELO   T EIPWT tU3 I6          6,762   11,223   11,604   11,4538   14,497   (5,440   15,210   13.110   14,29   13,363   13,752
Sa1. to be carrted fl.               1,674    7,314    7,245    6,9       4,619    2,165    2.973    3,400    4,60    7,60    11,93
TOTAL O tEvL        FUM                9,436   18,537   19,050   13,397   19,106   1?,604  12,183   16,315   15.311   20,97.  25,614
FIMERIAL 102ICAT01t
utP LoanTotal OuIltFas                                        -        1       39i              u.n 13     4.21     s.21
'JTP Fxp.Total Ogut Funs                                    2.61      7.21    23.61   347.8 a    3.9?    11. 42     7.31       - 
Trsp. E[So.Totul kwtmads                 2.41      2.21     3.92     8.62    25.02    29.42    25.     1.22         9.01     1.51      2.32
Oit Servtt 4ati.ess
DSC/RvARTv..INP                           2.31    59.4     1.        6.93      6.32      .8    01          e 3.4   14.02    23.21    20.9 11
NSC/Rev. and. WalFed.                     3.02    75.02    20.32      9.72     6.9:     9.82     9.u1      9.3   1 :.51    14.31    11.62
DOC/Rev.  otl. 3*l/PUf.                   4.1   I0.        34.92    17.32    12.92    15.21    1.01    22.62  t19.62    t             1.')t
Isesetions:
1    Constantat currant Iml in an el teres far 298-193/0, an  1aflatian 3.51 P.&. for 190191-19t 1.
Rea  grnu    St pa. for i19I3-191 , and inflatioen l20  p.. fr 197/U, 5s  p.s. Car 191919   I 3 '2 pi a.              r l8   0-194;1
Ra grouth 7n  p.&. for 15/48186O4f95  and in lattin  202 I.&. fwr 1937/fl 520.a. fe1996  I9  i  3.2   a. for 11'0l'iS
.     o real gras, and ie41tie 1lot p.a. Itr 197196, 52 p.s. fw  t91319, S '.51 P.&. for 19940-1994
5.   lesd eo the data given 4w the city oarnent of  edan
6.   bas  as Ie cot otuattz anod fi"saciu  alans for the propond kUt project
Real grath eate  and inflatao  rate fwr 193     and 1at  /37 em  atiostod at ,1 e        d 61 p.., rreqttielv, 4o' routtne and davelwnt
poandturee, ecludig onh   dvetlop t eupaditujr".



-84-
uw ~   ~     ~    ~    tt  11waq  _.6   ttjlo  t%lmllStt  7'"          1.1      .10        9,6 t1 },6                 t'2
TO    htit   VWWS     916        to'     II.Xt   lWtS       121      13.b 1" 5  It/t   '131   It#3    l7"i  ttlX           t
Wolls                     63                     Al .l .                         1.3,. ..0 .943
$Volvo fM  ISAIOS i         is  3 8 _W3                12, 17/U  39      I9/     44    199034  342.9  11430  13.4
lit    taxt                       5,160   5,3t3    1,456    5,15A    1,45     5,45    2,949    63,47    6,7    1.42     1,8 5
Lnt3 btMoh/9w40o                  4.626    5,344    5,731   6,24    2,4291   2,960   20,0    S,36l   11,1011   3,606   32,923                 2
Iwp3616                               151 1e     3 1     tt7    t74    1,09      1,134   2.,93    2,59    7,297    1,992
hw k* fblMbo  w                    3,47    I        2.4     2,433    3,6      7,240      1,7   2.       4,4     I,69    3I,44N
Mu V ftoit                          614      71M1     343    607       7t    3,0       ,12,1                    3,20     1,092
No T3198*t 1ro                    3,6 0    3,23     3,42    3,16     3,7      2,15   2,420    2,a8    2,4d    3,207    3,4                    S
03e l.       I.3b.t b3,544    3,114  1,436    2,21S    2,429    2,64                  2,4       ,3      3,4II   3,2    4,092                  2
i-tote)                      4,83    3,7m     .,06     7,18    7,034    8,924   8,596   38,26    1,854   17,873   2,474
Tot                                3,4 1,0    13,42    3,271   1.57t   l3,53   1,5731  I3,a62   21,3     ,742    3,80   34,669 
3ar9                               ,27     1,749    6,042    6,42    6,442    4,042    6,253    6,47    6,61    4,933    7,17                 1
-trAl                        6,75    7,32    7,62    1,012    7,632    7,62    7,m74   8.155    1,412   4,731   4,443
30 v   Projto    t           1,437    3,248    2,74    2,50                       t -        -        -        - 
-via Trup6t 2ro3  3                                       30 -,01       3,924    3,11       3       5          -       *                 6
it                            24I     , I33    I,24    1,34    1,4       1,      1,706I   3,84    I3,47    2,032    2,322               5
8367.4.3                     1,7A3   *,4r4   3,460    4 ,40     3,47n    3,1     3,256    2,79   2l,437   2,432    2,354
70741. MWIt85 7                      33,340   35,420   18,240   14,234   34,134   34,341  1,  23,323   24,731   2I,6    34,0 9
-1319337369IIB
*444  hqrra                2t7      91      49    3,869    3,344    3,34    3,221    3,28    3,332    1,8    1,43                    4
-36P                ~~~~2,114   2,178   2,7t7    S,4    7,2t4    3,3AI   3,446   3564    3,694    3,623    5,97                  4
-no  tra_srt Prsjstt                     -     67     3,47     3,67    3,5      2,44     3,470      4         -       - 0
-t6   0                     4,362    2,747    3,443    4,73        -        -        -       -*5
-36                          3,762    4,47    4,39    4,4      5,074   5,25?1,44:   1,432    ,8129   6,033    6,244                      4
-446,                        1,343    3,45D    3,18    3,72     3,833    3,87    3,440   2,44      ,07*    2,350    2,226               4
l-Iotil                     32646  3371       634,5    063       T442    1530     14,9    1394    3332     3264   3383
_ - -.                 --                            ---                     - ,           -
43                            357 -2              -                                                     
li-111alw                     44     3,9        97        3       47   2,21          2,    264   3,362    3,m      3,363
MAL0 31447 N           T= 131913,     3340   L13037   1,330   17,404   31,434   37,438   17,m    36,215   37,014   36,644   37,143
8.2. to,I        0FM                  0   2,408   2,311    3,J36    2,200    3,723    2,428    4,277    7,6t6   33,943   17,476
1871.51808T PasS                    33,340   15,247 193,243  19,239   16.3O193,343   39,683   2,,123   24.711  24,640   34,669
87    aoolot. kwt                                         -        - 2.3L    33.31    10.01  7.93    4.32   2.01   -
or Cip14A.  in t  0                               -      3.n     7.6     7.      -L4      14.911    7.01    3 ,                D
tram. Cp114to3 l                                 Dt IO" 24.21    2.  24.4  2.21   44,3  4   SO.72    24.42    24,1    18.31    I1.Ss
k3r1 li,,to 8013463
49/li.s444..3t.              5.11~~~ 11.8X    6.81    6.12    6.8  134,41   133,0    ILU3    34,          12.11    34.3
366b,. itac. h3iia.         ~         33.32    34.21    34.6    303    33.2    26.01   26.41    32.32    22462   3071    34.32
86/I. int1. 1011/`10.                 34.2    34.21   22.91   21.13      392 11.21 1L   33.31    34.03    3541    52.413 . 29t
3.  CN at d        ~        toolo in oal twm 4w 34B7*13 9140M),    s0lzd3s 3. 11.a, fo  34401-1914/4
_. bo  V=O 5 o.a. *   MWtol*1, ad taf3dta  t01p.o. fot  3                    8 ,2. 6w 38389,3 A .. .. fo t_4_40-1490/4_ 
3.  8d oo3 7*69 p.. lw  0185180-3A4*4  ad sttof   idt,  31.o..fo IOw 344 1/3     p.s. for if"/8, 3.510.4. lw  8140-34194/45,
4. b t te oo      , am  *.43o3.  lUp.4        Iw37. a1 P.o. fo  1,92t, 8 s3.1 p.c. 03  t49,-974.
L.  kW  ON0tie 94t3043140by th city p.30 t3of koweq
6.In 8abt4   ad4 cot .3401   *43-3348 p1.0la the p148800443  pr3,13
06a vut a  at ti             ,        QsD tiss        19oStaV98 4 7   uatot6a 2  o. id63 p.2., rUa1ptI,Oy, Ow tgt of S  60l10
fr 003410 trrtill up tw38t rpl tst.Vn



-85-
=tgmemin ?&
1tOWVAA    . C NOR M  ItFtURO   thAn   raiait                                                    - --
1904/0   316/6  3906/0   39073  31009   1919190 1190/913091192                    1929 399/119  21904119        Ow03
Iktull
004_1_                                                            .         .       _            .        _          _         _
I&, t kta                            7,2a      1,771 ,  111,11    0,131    0,131    0,121    0,436    0,71    9,6    9,"31    9,01
PrenocalT uu                           403      42*        4I      at        451      el       46       4           0       117 so1                       I
uwi law/marl,                       13,179    4,.01   36,5s2   19,142   2,104   22,9        24,99   2,07   29,41   3,9l   24,706                         2
ota latiw tat     s          21,011   22,910   23,1    27,1        29,61?   33,11?  35,001   14,190   3S.12   419   44,t99
E ditUtrt.                          17.122   30,112   24,034   22,011   22,10   2s,927   24,70    29,al   26,120   27,49    10,413                       4
lw   s                         I,091    4.,41    1,140    $,70      6,99    t,190    9,042   10e,04    12,424   14,202   36,s14
01013*91070100401
"I.  flru frnoso Vw                  1,250    2,99      1,44       270    2,039    1,630   M,292   32,091   20,02   2,46    44,54
SvW a  fom beties  /t                2,091    0,41    9,t14      1,1m?    c,10      7,19     9,s 4      e3,t49   32,424   34,i0    i6,93
hr gWy Tas 3FI31  00 t)              2,49?    3,9       4,499    1,291    9,944    4,30    7,294    0,400    e,94   9t,9t  10,974                        2
Otk3w  Iwelom      t t                 ttt 3    213       21t      244       24       276      293 m     0? set             42       142                 2
sd-Tota l,20   11,194   13,2n     33,924   14.790   2e,914   24,m                              23,043   42,610   10,090   12,42
&tawl                                   60      42        6,3      3i0      i01       0l       731       2        t         03       00                   I
twl                                  3,431    3,422    3,02      3,02      ,039    2,019    2,914    4,133    4,21       4,06    4,160                   X
1 1-Tat3                       4,422    4,24    4,929    4,120    4,92        4,920    4,610    4,042    9,012    9,307    9,26
I.O.U
v           q            t 2,tn   2,210    1,442    2,002            * *
"a  Trapt Projct                   -                         430 *t0    I,'m0    3,0we    3,20    3,940                -                           4
0t1w                              90    t,a39     3,241    1,24?    1,491    3,57      3,67    3,1`99    3,407    2,021    2,142                   1
Id-total                       2,421    4,413    4,3       4,4e    2,219    2,23        ,317    3,019    2,047    2,023    2,34
T0OTAL 31W31033  FM                    139,271   39,07`4  22,7114   20,490   21,192   27,091    2,311?   19,744   913,36   63,201   79,924
0190~191  W1401401
Auks
.0-pOs,w   Prqraa              3,68     1,997    4,219    4,706   41,942    9,311S   1,294    1,479    1,6ll13  909    6,0714
-Otta   T rfprt P.   nt -                         4,900    3.40    2,94       2,070    4,41    2,049    2,040          -        -
-WWIal                         602         -                                                                  
-3111                            021    4,f93    9,3       2,664        -
.%tW                           31,00    6,040    6,192    7,20?    1,960    7,8u13  ,307    0,9           ,604    I,90      9,20                   4
Oul-ittal                     10,490   14,200   20,999   17,210   14,94    34,6t7   37,410   39,909   34M9   34,80    3.1,27
bel leivice awlowp
4ew                            3,724                                    -                                                       -                 s
-**a1                            227z     224       2241     234      20        39       130      37n       1342 192          349 
~~t'lw  333              -    1,093~~I'  t' 12 13,160    1,134    1,073    3,02         90       920      092      043                  9
-390w  0       -                  -                  -    3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,30  1,310    3,3  311  I,30    3,310 
-34610 Tr90t   Pijel                        -                  -           -       .  .                    07      3,.      1,4                   6 
triewt ~     ~      t     *,It                                                              in*,    t,tttil"
-OIlers                        6,tes    7,e2o   *,           2n 79  07        t1        110       H1       326      330        46                 1
Id-total                       2,326    2,3.97    13,49    1,461    1,414    2,946    2,940    2,03    2,677    2,90  32,049
MAL63 3103.0110  13P3ums;              32,72     16,40    22,90     30,47    39,94   3996    19,20     10,7a    20,37     10,       39,22
1. to of cw      o 1.                2,314    3,469       27     2,019    S. 9,626    02   32,307   20,902   23,401   44,14 _0,730
13103    9*30.11FM                     11,270   19,074   22,74   20,690   21,9    27,011 3        7     19,744   13,9 3 , a26 3,2   79,m
*t L h/Intel  tapt  4,                                                2.92     3.0       La        .7       ,        3.0
- EA.Ttal  at Tab                           -         -     213.      .1.1     9.41    12.21    32O         m                 a1 C.0 
Tr"q. (p./,etal $"It I    *,d            24.01    39.92    40.2S    19.63               12.2219.          30. 9     1301      9,32 1t41
bet Own.. tot,al
IC ..W...                                3s0      34.22      .-       9.32     7.1-   12.1        9.01     7.01    7,2        4.42     4.92
31/e. tact. Sl/Tdl.                      n.01    34         3. 2    32.71       .1    37            a1               0.a       ,t      s.1
010/94. Ml, 0.3030.                      26.1     91.41    19.31  33.t113.11    20.40    17.4    139.01    36.91    19.09    131.0
3.-t*W                        2,023At  2,ett to 1         tm,4 t,t for                2,71-1091, SW .letaes 3.1  9.A. 4ow 399091-1991
2.   0    ytl e t i p.tST .&. lv  129,72 -194/9, ade Weishm 303 P.&. fw  10071, 2 p. 4 I          9 3/09, 0 2.12 P.A. Ow 1909/90-1914191
3.   kg yestb 7  P.A. _w _1/00-1911191, ad teElati,. 30  O.& ow  19071, Up,. _w  ___ , _a   _... _w _1_90-199419.
4,  lb tooa  p.40, ad a,3diaa 302 p..4fo tw in. 7U, fl.*. 3w  3902/0, 4 2.11 p.&. for 390-10.94191.
S.   low     30* dot   "in in the6 St,o gw "u   of 0*a6at 
6.   NW0106416  ad vot,.ode  ad fitane, t3om  fw  tit V4or 66 311  rojst
kg 0lft1  Fatilb A W110eU    ide fo  31160 atd 3409/07 n, U t       tZ  eS  at 2t1p..  ad 61.t.. fo  radim  ado di         t ,.t
iipoetveo, ovi16619l0 flIP dmq         t apea0tva.



"8-
ANNEX 15
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Analysis of Economic Benefits
1.        The cost of project components were calculated in the following
manner for the purposes of the economic evaluation. Construction costs were
taken as of March 1987 and increased by the physical contingencies net of
taxes. (See Table 1.) The benefit stream is also measured in 1987 prices,
starts in year two and runs for 20 years, the assumed life of the major
capital components. Maintenance costs were subtracted from annual benefit
estimates.
2.        The traffic volumes and speeds were projected based on current
traffic counts and speed measurements for both the existing and improved
facilities. Future estimates were based upon assumed growth in traffic of
between 4% and 6% p.a., well below present growth rates of traffic in the
project cities. (See Table 1.)
3.        The vehicle operating costs (VOC) were estimated for both running
and standing modes of operation for six representative types of vehicles. The
running or distance based costs take into account the effect of road design
and condition on the basic operating costs of fuel, oil, tires, vehicle main-
tenance and distance related depreciation. Fixed costs are computed on the
basis of the costs of owning a vehicle independent of kilometers driven and
are summarized as an hourly charge for each vehicle type. (See Table 2.)
4.        The value of time saved is an important benefit to all urban trans-
portation improvements. The average number of passengers (i.e., excluding
paid crew of commercial vehicles) was estimated by vehicle type and a value
placed on each hour of work time saved which is somewhat less than actual
wages. No value was given to savings in leisure time. (See Table 3.) Crew
costs for commercial vehicles are estimated separately and included in VOC
values.



REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANBPORT PROJECT
Data for Economic Analy ia
Tech.     Total                   Volume         Peak speeds
Base   Phys.  Land    sub-    aSt.    *com.           Volume      growth/   without        With      lot yr ROR     IRR          IRn
Component name             Length   cost   cont.   cost    total  alloc.A    cost   1988    1998    year    1988 1      998 1988  1998  (VOCtime)  (VOC only)  (VOC*t )
(km.)           _    -      (Rp0OO0) --                   (vehicles/day)    (2)    --   (km/hr) -                         - (2)
New Road Conetruction
MMp                      1.85   3,369    337   1,100    7,006   1.092    8.098  17,000  30,000        5       IS    10   40    35        23           24          29
Suagtoeno                2.96   6,422    642   1,600    8.664   1,380   10,044  35,000  SO,000        5       20    18   3S    30        28           26          33
LtnRker SWR              3.76   3,386    339      440    4,165     555    4,720  25,000  41,000       5       20    I5   40    36        36           32          49
Lagahar SE I             1.87   2,546    255   1,525    4,326      695    5,021  25,000  41,000       S       20    15   40    36        i5           17          26
LUgagkw SE It            2.h8   3,241    324   2,125    S,690      912    6,602  2S,000  41,000       5       20    15   40    36        i5           17           26
Nedan
SsinlUamgcaraja I        1.22   1,563    156      250    1,969     238    2.207  35,000  57,000       5       29    24   40    34        57           48          59
Baktti                   1.10   1,230    123        0    1,353     ISO    1,503   6,000  10,000       5       i8    14   36    30        28           28          37
Halat                    1.S5   1,793    179      288    2,260     265    2,525   7,000  11,000       5       18    15   39    34        28           27          38
Sotrisno                 1.20     889     89      216    1,194     188    1,382   5,000   8,000       5       20    15   34    29        18           15          25
Sisiagmangaraja II       1.25   1,534    153      250    1.937     233    2,170  25,000  41,000       5       23    18   34    30        55           60          74
Pattiamra I              2.30   2,564    256        0    2,820      383    3,203  27,000  43,000      5       24    19   30    28        29           28          37
Juanda                   1.14     953     95        0    1,048      167    1,215  18,000  26,000      5       22    18   34    30        39           34          52
Aksara                   1.80   1,196    120        0    1,316     209    1,525   3,000   8,000       5       16    15   36    30        16           21          25
Soearan 1
Klitgave I               2.64   3,229    323      301    3,R53     339    4,192  18,700  20,200       4       26    21   36    30        39           37           45          _1
Siltwngi II             1.90     820     82        0      902     143    1,045  27,000  47,300       5       36    28   40    36        27           36          41            1
Banjir Bridge           0.06      878     88        0      966     154    1,120  13,700  23,000       5       17    15   25    22        15           18          25
Subtotal              29.28  35.613  3.561  10.295   49.469   7.103   56.572
Corridor Improvemnts
SurabatS-
East-lest L              2.41   3,61S    362   1,700    5,677       723    6,400  24,000  40,000      5       15    10   32    30        29           30          38
Bendung
KIaracondong I           3.SO   1,023    102       20    1,145      175    1.320  20.000  34.000      5       28    18   31    21        15           20          27
Medan
Sisinga.angaraja         1.20   1,127    113        0    1,240      124    1,364  20,000  46,000      5       37    32   40    35        15           20          27
Varni Bridge             0.85   1,486    149        0    1,635      224    1,859  11,000  17,000      n.s.    pedestrian safety improvement
SemaranR
1 West                   1.30     762     76       38      876      109      985  17,300  30,300      6       23    15  27    21         22           28          38
I East                   2.33     860     86       48      994     158    1,152  17,300  30,300       6       23    15  27    21         22           28          38
1 NW                     1.35     872     87       43    1,002      53    1.055  17,300  30,300       6       23    15  27    21         22           28          38
I NE                     2.39     863     86       58    1,007     160    1,167  17,300  30,300       6       23    15  27    21         22           28          38
4 (part)                 0.47     130      13       0      143       12      155   7,200  12,700      6       29    24   31    27        32           34          49
Subtotal               13.80  10.738  1,074   1,907   13.719   1.738   15,457
Total                         46.351  4635  12202   63.188   8.841   72.029                                                             27           28          36
/a  F,r the purposes of calculating IRR, RD 11,000 million equivalent of technical assistance was added proportionally to the "Total Economic Cost' of all evaluated
components.



-88-
ANNEX 15
Table 2
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC)
(Rp per km - 1985 prices)
Speed (kph)  Car    Comb./a    Bus    Light truck    Heavy truck    Motorcycle
2        200       151       412          291             393              20
4         191       144      397         201              377              18
6         183       137      382          169             361              17
8         176       131      369          152             346              17
10         168       125      357          140             332              16
12         162       120      344          132             320              16
14        155       115       334          125             307              15
16         150       110      323          121             296              15
18         144       106      313          116             284              14
20         139       101      305          113             275              14
22         133        98      296          109             265              14
24         129        94      289          107             255              13
26         125        91      281          105             247              13
28         121        87      275          102             240              13
30         117        84      269          100             232              12
32         114       82       263           99             227              12
34         110        78      259           98             221              12
36         108        76      254           97             215              12
38         105        74      251           95             210              12
40         102        72      247           94             206              10
42         100        70      245           93             202              10
44          98        69      243           93             199              10
46          97        68      242           92             197              10
48          94        67      240           92             194              10
50          93        66      240           92             193              10
52          92        64      240           92             192              10
54          91        64      242           92             192              10
56          90        63      243           92             192              10
58          90        63      245           92             193              10
60          89        63      247           92             194              10
62          89        64      250           92             196              10
64          89        64      253           93             198              12
66          89        66      256           93             200              12
68          89        66      261           94             204              12
70          90        67      273           94             208              12
72          90       68       283           95             212              12
/a  Comb. is a vehicle category containing passenger-carrying opelets, pick-
ups, combis and suburbans. A 2000 cc Toyota was used as the hypothetical
vehicle for consumption with the purchase value of a mid-sized utility
vehicle.



-89-
ANNEX 15
Table 3
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Value of Passenger's Time /a
Vehicle type                       Car          Comb /b      Bus     Motorcycle
Average passenger capacity
per vehicle                          5           12           55         2
Load Factor (Z)
- Peak period                       60           80           90        70
- Off-peak period                   40           60           70        60
Proportion of work-based
trips (%)                           30           30           30        50
Value of passenger's time
(Rp/hr/passenger)                3,400          700          700       700
/a The value of time saved by passengers was calculated only for work-related
trips which were assumed to be 30Z of all trips by all modes. No value
was placed on other types of trips.
/b Comb - Combination, i.e., a representative middle-size, passenger-carrying
vehicle.



* -90-   -
Ah6PX 16
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES bRBAN TRANSPOR(T PR0JECT
Guidelines for A Future Regional Citice LUrban Transport Project
Dimensions of the Project
1.        All cities over 500,000 (the four project cit!es plas four to sit
new cities) would be eligible fo' tne futore project.  The proje!t wouild
include full city participatiori including setting up traffic engineexing raits
and reorganization of the road maintenance units. (This proje^t would also
include investments in public transport f:Acilities.)
2.        The project would also include financing selected princln.l
arterials in other cities.  These :n7-astaents woild principally  it ery 'igh-
priority, "high cost" items.  There woud re no city participat .on in this
program.  This part of the program wuuld not co-.osume more th,-. one quarter .f
Bina Marga expenditure under the projtects
Method of Project Preparation
3.        A central URD team would identify the project In each city in
consultation with city officials.
4.        The preparation of the traffic management (including public trans-
port) components and road maintenance components would be undertaken in the
appropriate city departments with tht assistance of consultants.
5.        Detailed engineering of the road construction and the corridor
improvement components would be prepared centrallv under the direction of the
PMU.
City Eligibility Requirements
6.        The principle of "self selection" would be used.  (The cities would
decide at the outset whether they would wish to participate in the project.)
7.        The following would be agreed to between the candidate cities and
the PMU as a basis Xor: (a) being selected for the future project; and (b)
beginning preparation of the project in each city:
(i) City must agree to set up a Traffic Engineering Unit and reorganize
the road maintenance function according to guidelines established by
the URD;
(ii) City must appoint the traffic engineering unit director and main-
tenance director before preparation starts;
(iii) City must agree to a minimum annual capital expenditure and
borrowing level under the project; and
(iv) City must agree to prepare a rolling urban transportation program
subject URD guidelines before the project is appraised and to
maintain this program over the life of the project.



' -91-
ANNEX 17
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
List of Documents in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies
1. Project Identification Reports: Bandung; by Rennie Park and Indec &
Associates; September 1984.
2.  Project Identification Reports:  Medan; by P.T. Indah Karya; October 1984.
3. Project Identification Reports: Semarang; by Biec International;
September 1984.
4. Project Identification Reports: Surabaya; by China Engineering
Construction, Inc. and Biec International; September 1984.
5. Interim Report on Street Maintenance; by Indec & Associates, Ltd. and
Rennie Park CMBH; June 28, 1985.
6. Management Strengthening for Street Maintenance; by Indec & Associates,
Ltd. and Rennie Park GKBI August 1985.
7. Working Paper No. 12, Financial Study - Stage II; by Indec & Associates,
Ltd. and Rennie Park GMBH; December 1985.
8. Recommended Program for Project-Related Manpower Development and Training;
by Indec & Associates, Ltd. and Rennie Park CMBH; March 1986.
B. Mission Working Papers
1. Economic Analysis Working Papers.
2. Municipal Finance Working Papers.
3. Technical Notes from Appraisal Mission, May 1986.
4. Terms of Reference for Project Preparation.



-92-                                       CURT
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ORGANIZAT1ONAL STRUCTUME FOR PROJECT IHPLEMENTATION
Ministry of
Public Works
Director
_General
Bina Marga
Urban Roads
Directoratee
P.M.i                           Instructional
I  -- -  Informational or
Prepares   I                           Coordination
_          ~~~Detailed
Kanwll    Des,igns
Standards 
MHonitors
Overall 
Project        ContrtProgress            n                    Mayor
.Project S
Accounts                      r
.sPrepares                   S
Future          
Project                    .Prepare       aes
8appeda     Rolling 5
|         I1       Y~~~Uerban
Transport
!  .  -   - J      ~~Program
the CC  i eChief c.onitorcng  A            Publi  Works
C.P.C.O. o aoueting               Chief
.Coordination         TEU * IFf u*
Bina Marga     Im.}plements            City Projects  .Impleaents
Projects       Contracts               tLana8er        Contratts
I  !  !  I  I * Sub-project.          
* Designs Schemes
.Directs Force Account Woreks
.Operates Signals
**In Surabaya and Semarang           * .Prepares Annual Road Maintenance Program
the C.P.C.0 will be in Public          .Directs Force Account 'lorks
Works Department.



-93.
CLART 2
INDONESIA
REGIONAL CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
OrgonIzationcl Strcuure of the Dlrectorate General of Hlghways (DGH)
0:wt6omlte GoWx
ifCtCf1 GerG
ci1' Hrgfl                                                                       I
CP iscrn nng                                                            viM eg  Ofln 
0                                                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Onectltot d             )retROon Roi           Oiecio          ~ |i CrnD  laen     n c          Ostectrate d   |          D"ceo
rMng ~ ~ ~ qrg~mOl n(WIW? Qegn }                              iContro QoRogin 1t        (6a8 fiogin )              Ea
Erninnon   _    mnot            _  41mm0~~Altn n,           rarrunistaticn          Ad| min4taton   |    | Arnzo 
I_ m ?ls?tatlan    _     dttllnisffatlci' D ~    dhnhttyQtiCg~         &dfl_rrs,stratIC(1 |    Damrn  i s O a l          ADamgiirjstr Ir
$uc-ratoDrae           SU0ecycrats               u-iccaeSj.acca
.l                        ci tOffrc               'i                                                                                   ._1ia  i ehia   c ets
I~~~~~ ~~ r-enc                               of Tcr                                                         .      r
Deiclomrr,i             De"rlcn,et              OG$xrTD4M renm4t 
su.oa-Orrectaoote SuI-Oir              o'ata     suOrrcl=otT   I
Screening    ~~~~ec~~c~~           01 NallheM            ciWa hiO&o SjWOWi
sumatr flegsn           %aaI  ierr                    lgion
Of &lgrieeafrg df Cenha, POgIOn |i Scurmerm  |f |antra, jO |         |f Oa en    m   |      |     O        t    |         aO sucm,$
sumaltra egv~n              ari                   jva fOgKun
Iua-C~,ectcvate        sUfDqsctorae             uOletII SI   tO. .c..r-te
a Lirtesirat.v                                ct Kamanmtar            ci East jasa &           cl Nusaerggaa & I           ia      s
tunaa 9Precl            Of  e| f09oiaO             qegon         |        a INm g               east rurix R ,ag   Xetoo|
n    at0stefnah   t 1   dI R s                  ci .Ol o at?               3 m flv LJofLta&             l Cdonwa|
SuirCeOct<ofae |       W                                                                                                        AOow  o   - 30oi3a
|  i |  5ljntre 
Swcf  MININoft\ii Wii
Orotooer ~TgS



LTHAlAND                  I060                                   I                  lI Sp
aRUNEI 
MALAYSIA
<   P^n;j  /                0 KUALA LUMPUR           /                                                                             r
Oboro ugu.                sg"ttong       /...... t                                             MALAYSIA   /
.   - SINGAPORE                        S        <
Pcka-nbat,
A    I   M  A A  rA  N
sukmtr   /     l-(R-as                                                ottOd           sz                                        T tnWm
$uoge.Peo               .                 8ANGKA Akpapan
S Ui / Tf R                           ^kinna
T-np,npaodwng
0
L ubJklinggSu )PrrobAn
$0
Kolabs.n
JAKARtA  Tenrn P      J  A   W   A
>_libon MO,                      fA    A                            S_
sombgw"
Ms  B ow
OWtS    LOMBOKt
100
flt nup Ru tlo b pepeWed by The Wtord 6alre slte ecco     for fte torW.nce of
Vt *de  Vd Ia ita** for me rArew raof l  worw f* t ed utf kfemaoeal
Frince c e          The deOntm $ sed and tVR    bbOudJe tt 1 afon  mop do not
mr*, anon owl of The Wt an* Sn thS kttrm  Fkwnc. Croo tral nyW jAa1et
on h tag eafua of ly  r  to r r oy  t t solt or coptn  of swh boanvw
10o                                    1I60                                     1                                      150



IBRD 202
t0o                                                                                      13G0      INDONESIA           '"
PHILIPPINES                                                                 REGIONAL CITIES
/;  ,                                           URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
| Xn| Project Cities
Mojor Roads
-    Railroads
Ports
4   Airports
International Boundories
HAL IdA HERA
/   Gow.jO
X                    t~~~~~~~~EPULACAN SC/LA
2                      ool                                                                           -r*1sUnD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wdo
SLA W SI                                                                   o              ow                                      i
fF,kt,k             Nabe   /AR rA A    JAA Y                 <
K.ndN~~~~~~~~~  SC/ILl                                                                        1 0~~~~~~~~~Kk..
P/ORES                                                                                                   V~~~~~~~~~~~~MLE.4
Maa,wA                                          K3629 60                            S       90 0!
s u*                                                                                                             I P/CI 
54IAf"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SUMI                     Kuai
u.00                           12,                             130                                                           1400
FEBRUARY 19



