FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Repon No. lOa-BR
APPRAISAL OF
INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BRAZIL
November 28, 1972
Latin America & the Caribbean projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                                   =  New Cruzeiro (NCr$) 6.165-
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 kilogram                                2.20 pounds
1,000 kg - 1 metric ton (m ton)           0.98 long ton
1,000 millimeters (mm)                    39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)                      =   0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)                            2.47 acres
i square kilometer = 100 ha           =   0.39 square mile
=   247.11 acres
1 liter (1)                           =   0.26 gallon
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CONDEPE - Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Pecuaria (National)
Livestock Development Commission)
SUNAB    -  Superintendencia Nacional do Abastecimento (National
Supply Board)
FUNDEPE  -  Central Bank's Livestock Development Fund
GECRI    -  Central Bank's Coordinating Office for Rural and
Industrial Credit
FUNAGRI  -  Central Bank's General Fund for Agriculture and Industry
CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/   Effective November 22, 1972.  Appraisal estimates based on
US$1 - NCr$ 5.85.



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE
INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......  ................... ...... .  i-i
I.  INTRODUCTION ........ ..... ............. ...... ..    1
II.   JUSTIFICATION OF AN INTERIM SECOND PROJECT ............    1
III.  ANALYSIS OF PERFORMANCE OF LOAN 516-BR ................    5
A.  Project Description         5........................  5
B.   Comparison of Forecast with Actual Performance  ...    5
C.  Project Progress          7............  ......... ..    7
D.  Organization and Management        ......................    9
E.  Technical Services *.............  12
F.  Impact of the Loan ..............................   13
IV.   THE INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ......  15
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................  19
ANNEXES
1.  Size Distribution of Subloans Under the First Livestock
Development Project (1969 - March 31, 1972)
2.  Breakdown of Actual and Expected On-Ranch Investments
Under the First Livestock Development Project
3.   Schedules of Disbursement
Table 1 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the First
Livestock Development Project
Table 2 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the
Interim Second Livestock Development Project
4.   Financial Arrangements
Appendix - Central Bank Cash Flow on IBRD Funds
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission to Brazil in
March-April, 1972 composed of Messrs. F. van Gigch, G. Luhman (Bank) and
P. Bono (FAO).



-2-
5.   Re-lending Terms for First Livestock Development Project (516-BR)
6.   Ranch and Farm Development Projections
Model I:  2,000 ha Beef Breeding and Fattening Ranch
ia Rio Grande do Sul
Table 1 - On-Ranch Investment Projections
Table 2 - Herd Development Projection
Table 3 - Revenue and Expenditure from Livestock
Sales and Purchases
Table 4 - Income Statement
Table 5 - Cash Flow Statement
Table 6 - Financial Rate of Return
Model II: 500 ha Beef/Wheat Farm in Rio Grande do Sul
Table 7 - On-Ranch Investment Projections
Table 8 - Herd Development Projection
Table 9 - Projection of Crop Production
Table 10 - Revenue and Expenditure from Livestock
Sales and Purchases
Table 11 - Income Statement
Table 12 - Cash Flow Statement
Table 13 - Financial Rate of Return
Model III: 2,000 ha Beef Breeding and Fattening Ranch in
Parana and Sao Paulo
Table 14 - On-Ranch Investment Projections
Table 15 - Herd Development Projection
Table 16 - Revenue and Expenditure from Livestock
Sales and Purchases
Table 17 - Income Statement
Table 18 - Cash Flow Statement
Table 19 - Financial Rate of Return
Model IV: 8,500 ha Beef Breeding and Fattening Ranch in
the Pantanal (Mato Grosso)
Table 20 - On-Ranch Investment Projections
Table 21 - Herd Development Projection
Table 22 - Revenue and Expenditure from Livestock
Sales and Purchases
Table 23 - Income Statement
Table 24 - Cash Flow Statement
Table 25 - Financial Rate of Return



Model V:  5,700 ha Beef Breeding and Fattening Ranch in
Planalto (Mato Grosso)
Table 26 - On-Ranch Investment Projections
Table 27 - Herd Development Projection
Table 28 - Revenue and Expenditure from Livestock
Sales and Purchases
Table 29 - Income Statement
Table 30 - Cash Flow Statement
Table 31 - Financial Rate of Return
Model VI: 4,500 ha Beef Breeding and Fattening Ranch in the
North of Goias
Table 32 - On-Ranch Investment Projections
Table 33 - Herd Development Projection
Table 34 - Revenue and Expenditure from Livestock
Sales and Purchases
Table 35 - Income Statement
Table 36 - Cash Flow Statement
Table 37 - Financial Rate of Return
Model VII: 3,000 ha Beef Breeding and Fattening Ranch in
the South of Goias and Minas Gerais
Table 38 - On-Ranch Investment Projections
Table 39 - Herd Development Projection
Table 40 - Revenue and Expenditure from Livestock
Sales and Purchases
Table 41 - Income Statement
Table 42 - Cash Flow Statement
Table 43 - Financial Rate of Return
7.   Summary of Estimated Project Costs
Table 1 - Estimated On-Ranch Development Costs
Table 2 - Estimated Technical Services Costs
8.   Economic Rate of Return
MAPS






BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE
INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMA&RY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        On September 23, 1967, the Bank made a Loan (516-BR) of US$40 mil-
lion to Brazil to finance a Livestock Development Project designed to in-
crease commercial beef, mutton and wool production in potentially very
productive but poorly developed livestock areas of southern and central
Brazil. Under this First Project, producers received 12-year loans includ-
ing up to four years' grace for farm development through participating
official and private banks to finance 80% of development plans approved and
supervised by specially created Project technical services, which also supply
complementary assistance. Such services are provided by three Regional Offices
(Porto Alegre, Campo Grande and Goiania), each led by a Project Director, and
under the coordination and policy guidance of a specially created National
Commission (CONDEPE). Long-term loans are principally for land clearing,
pasture development, fencing, water supply, cattle handling facilities,
machinery and breeding cattle. In order to allow for inflation, the principal
and interest are subject to a monetary correction, based on changes in the
US dollar/cruzeiro exchange rate. A special Project Fund (FUNDEPE) at the
Central Bank refinances to participating banks (100%) of eligible subloans.
The First Project also provided for a meat marketing study, a staff training
program, and a program of pasture field trials.
ii.       Following a slow start, caused mainly by organizational problems
and lending policies, the First Project progressed rapidly after 1970, with
expected full commitment of Project lendina funds by the end of 1972. Govern-
ment is in the process of preparing a more comprehensive livestock project
based on experience provided by the First Project. However, it would not be
ready for appraisal until the middle of calendar year 1973. Thus, to avoid
a halt in development lending to commercial cattle and wool producers in some
of the areas of highest livestock potential in Brazil, and to take advantage
of the technical services assembled during the First Project and, indeed, to
complete some unfinished important features of the First Project such as the
marketing survey, staff training program and pasture field trials, Government
has proposed to carry out a limited scope Interim Second Project, substantially
along the lines of, and for the same purpose and areas of, the First Project.
The Interim Second Project would cover the forecast gap of about 18 months
between full commitment of Loan 516-BR and Board consideration of the livestock
project now under preparation.
iii.      The financial requirements of the Interim Second Project are
estimated at US$52 million, US$50 million for the lending program and US$2
million for Project-related technical services. The second Bank loan would
be US$26 million; following the arrangements of Loan 516-BR, about US$25
million would finance 62.5% of disbursements made by participating banks and



- ii -
about US$1 million would finance 50% of technical services expenditures.
Government would provide about US$15 million equivalent for the lending
program and US$1 million for technical services. The Project's estimated
foreign exchange component is US$7 million or about 14% of Project cost.
Ranchers would provide about 20% of the on-rarch investment, estimated at
about US$10 million equivalent. About 700 additional ranches are expected
to be financed under the Interim Project.
iv.       Performance of subborrowers, participating banks and technical
services under Loan 516-BR has been satisfactory, and the composition of
investment financed under the Project is, in general, adequate. The average
size of investment per ranch has been significantly higher than estimated at
appraisal. About 40% of the increase is attributable to higher prices and
about 60% to more investment per farm resulting from the desire of farmers
to develop a larger proportion of their ranches in order to take advantage
of the improved market outlook.
v.        Although it is too early to measure precisely the impact of the
First Project (more than 90% of participating ranchers initiated development
less than two years ago), visual inspection of participating ranches suggests
that the productivity increases forecast during appraisal of the First
Project (increases in weaning rates and decreases in mortality rates of up
to 50%) will be achieved, as expected, in five to six years. The financial
rates of return currently estimated for the First Project and forecasted for
the Interim Project range from 12 to 29%, compared with 16 to 20% during
First Project appraisal. It is expected that the economic rate of return of
about 18% for the First Project would be achieved. The return for the Interim
Second Project is estimated at 23%.
vi.       The financial and technical services arrangements for the Interim
Second Project would be the same as for the First Project. Following arrange-
ments successfully implemented during the First Project, goods and services
financed under the Interim Project would be procured through normal commercial
sources.
vii.      The Interim Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$26 million
for a term of 17 years including five years of grace. Government would be
the Borrower and Project funds would continue to be administered by the
Central Bank and channelled to ranchers through participating banks, under
the same financial arrangements as those of Loan 516-BR, including the
revised subloan indexing formula.



BRAZIL
INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Brazil has recuested additional funds to assist
in financing a Second Livestock Development Project which would be confined,
substantially, to the same purposes and areas as the First Livestock Devel-
opment Project (Loan 516-BR). 1/ This would be an interim operation, pending
preparation, and appraisal of a third, more comprehensive livestock development
project, which would be ready for Board consideration in the fourth quarter of
FY 74.
1,02      The principal objective of the First Project was to increase com-
mercial production of beef, mutton and wool in selected areas of southern
and central Brazil. It had been originally envisaged that First Project
funds would be committed evenly over the three years 1968 to 1970 following
effectiveness of the Loan. However, there was little progress until 1970,
raising doubts that Loan disbursements could be completed by the closing
date of December 31, 1973. Following adjustments in sublending policies
(para 3.14) during mid-1970 and progressive improvements in the market out-
look, the Project made rapid progress and funds are approaching full commit-
ment. This unexpected acceleration in the commitment rate prevented Govern-
ment from making timely provisions for the preparation of a full-fledged
follow-up livestock project, a task which is now in progress. The loan now
proposed would cover the forecast gap of about 18 months between total com-
mitment of Loan 516-BR and Board consideration of a Third Livestock Project.
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a supervision and appraisal
mission during March-April, 1972, composed of Messrs. F. van Gigch, G. Luhman
(Bank), and P. Bono (FAO).
II. JUSTIFICATION FOR AN INTERIM SECOND PROJECT
2.01      An Interim Second Ll- ,. Fck Project, supplemental to Loan 516-BR,
is necessary to avoid a halt in development lending to commercial cattle and
wool producers in some of the areas of highest livestock potential in Brazil,
while a third, broader-scope operation is prepared and processed (para 1.01).
2.02      The First Livestock Development Project was predicated on the need
to develop a subsector of strategic importance and potential within the
Brazilian economy. The appraisal mission of 1966 noted that, despite con-
siderable natural advantage for cattle farming, the growth of the beef cattle
1/   Appraisal Report No. TO-583b, dated Aiugust 30, 1967.  Loan 516-BR
became effective on December 31, 1967.



-2-
sector was barely sufficient to keep pace with rising population and was
making an insignificant contribution to export earnings. Between 1966 and
1971, beef output increased at an annual rate slightly below 2%, insufficiently
to match the increase in demand resulting from over 3% population growth ac-
companied by substantial gains in per capita income. Therefore, the impressive
expansion of beef exports (from 30,000 m ton to about 200,000 m ton carcass
weight equivalent between 1966 and 1971), has been achieved at the expense of
domestic consumption. An important objective of Government is to continue
the expansion of beef exports but without sacrificing domestic consumption;
Government has a target of 500,000 m ton of beef exports in 1976, which in
the field of agriculture would place this commtodity second only to coffee.
Furthermore, major increases in the productivity of existing livestock re-
sources are not only essential to short-run output targets but are, in
addition, a precondition for stocking and, thereby, exploiting the vast
unused land resources potentially available for livestock production. In
order to stock these lands within the foreseeable future, the national herd
would have to produce breeding stock well in excess of its own replacement
needs. This has hardly been the case in the recent past. Calving rates, 1/
for instance, are about 50% with the result that breeding cows produce four
to five calves in their lifetime, just enough to meet their own replacement.
Thus, the main thrust of the First Project was directed at the improvement
of herd productivity. While it is too early to predict with precision the
physical impact of the First Project, there are strong indications that on
participating ranches, the productivity targets of increasing weaning rates
and decreasing mortality rates by about 50% can be reached, as expected,
within five to six years (para 3.31).
2.03      Although the First Project was large relative to comparable projects
elsewhere, it could only reach a small segment of the livestock sector in
Brazil. The US$51 million invested as of M4arch 1972 in the development of
some 500 ranches under the Project affected about 700,000 head of cattle and
an area of about 3 million ha of ranch land, equivalent, respectively, to
about 1% of the national herd and 2% of the country's pasture area. It
follows that a massive financial and technical effort would be required to
raise a substantial proportion of ranches up to the levels expected from those
who are participating in the First Project. In recent years, Government has
created an encouraging climate for investment in ranch development. The
response of ranchers has been enthusiastic and there remains a considerable
unsatisfied demand for long-term livestock development funds. Therefore,
prima facie, the Bank would be justified in meeting Government's request for
financing an Interim Second Livestock Development Project, which, essentially
would be a continuation of the First Project.
1/   Number of calves born per hundred breeding cows.



2.04      Ninety percent of all funds were committed by the end of October
and all funds are expected to be committed by the end of December 1972.
The following table shows the estimated requirements of funds based on the
lending performance of all three Project Regional Offices (Annex 1). In the
light of such performance, a monthly flow of about 35 new subloans of an
average size of NCr$ 400,000 (about US$70,000) can be expected. The difference
between estimated commitments to June 30 1974 and available First Livestock
Project funds is the quantity of funds needed to keep up the pace of on-ranch
investment set under the First Project. On that basis, a total of about
US$52 million would be necessary to fill the gap between December 1972 and
June 1974, the target set for the initiation of a broader Third
Livestock Project.



- 4 -
Commitment and Additional Funds up to June 1974
Available                                  Additional
First                                   Funds for
Livestock              Estimated            Interim
Category and Source        Project       Commitments /1 6/30/74       Second
of Funds               Funds                                     Project
------(US$ million)--          -
Lending Program
IBRD                       37.3                 62.3                 25.0
Government                 22.4                 37.4                 15.0
Total On-Farm
Development Loans       59.7                 99.7                 40.0
Ranchers'
Contribution            14.9                 24.9                 10.0
Total On-Ranch
Development Costs       74.6                124.6                 50.0
Balance IBRD Funds
(On-Farm Development)        37.3                (25.0)                 -
Technical Services
IBRD                         2.7                 3.7                   1.0
Government                   2.7                 3.7                   1.0
Total Technical
Services                 5.4                  7.4                  2.0
Balance of IBRD Funds
(Technical Services)          2.7                 (1.0)                  _
Total                   80.0                132.0                 52.0
/1   Subloans in disbursements and subloans in banks pending signature.



III. ANALYSIS OF PERFORMANCE OF LOAN 516-BR
A. Project Description
3.01      Loan 516-BR, for US$40 million, covers about 50% of total First
Project cost. It was intended to help Brazil make long-term subloans to
commercial farmers, complemented with technical assistance, to finance on-farm
investments such as land clearing, pasture improvement, fencing, watering and
handling facilities, farm buildings and machinery, and breeding cattle which,
together with superior animal husbandry techniques, would result in better
herd productivity and stock expansion. Subloans are channelled through the
participating banks - Banco do Brasil and other authorized commercial banks -
by means of a refinancing arrangement with the Central Bank. Subloan funds
for on-ranch investment are provided, 62.5% from Loan 516-BR and 37.5% by
Government, and are deposited in a Special Project Account (FUNDEPE) in the
Central Bank.
3.02      The Project, which has the specific objective of increasing beef,
mutton and wool production, is confined to three Project regions: (a) Region
I, comprising Rio Grande do Sul; 1/ (b) Region II, comprising the State of
Matto Grosso and parts of Sao Paulo and Parana; and (c) Region III, comprising
the States of Goias and Minas Gerais (Maps). During the First Project
appraisal, it was envisaged that about 1,800 ranchers, phased over three years,
would join the Project -- about 300, 600 and 900 ranches, respectively, in
Regions I, II and III. Subloans are repayable in about 12 years, including
a four-year grace period, and, in order to allow for inflation, the sublending
terms include a monetary correction on the principal and interest (para 3.14).
3.03      A Regional Office has been established in each Project Region --
located in Porto Alegre, Campo Grande and Goiania, respectively -- each
headed by a Project Director and assisted by a technical staff. These officers
are responsible for evaluating individual ranch development projects and tech-
nically supervising their execution. A national commission (Conselho Nacional
de Desenvolvimento da Pecuaria - CONDEPE), now located in Brasilia, sets over-
all Project policies and coordinates activities. The Project also provides
funds for: (a) pasture field trials, (b) training of local staff abroad, and
(c) a beef and cattle marketing study.
B. Comparison of Forecast with Actual Performance
3.04      Execution of the Project has resulted, relative to appraisal
estimates, in: (i) larger average size of investment plans and subloans,
and (ii) changes in the relative proportions of investment categories within
investment plans.
1/   At the request of Government, Region I was extended to ecologically
similar areas in the State of Santa Catarina.



- 6 -
3.05      Size of On-Ranch Development Plans.  The average subloan size (see
Annex 1) has been about US$80,000 equivalent compared with about US$33,000
appraisal forecast, or about one and one-half times larger than expected, and
in particular about 30%, 260%, and 200% larger than expected in Regions I, II
and III, respectively. Because of the large increases in costs in Regions II
and III, only about one-third of the expected number of ranches would ulti-
mately be financed in these Regions. Comparing ranch development models
prepared during appraisal and similar models constructed in the light of the
experience of actual Project lending, it is estimated that about 40% of cost
overruns can be attributed to price increases. The major reason for cost
increases is the fact that ranchers are requesting, and the respective offices
approving, a volume of on-ranch investment greater than originally expected.
Ranchers have tended to develop the entire ranch rather than only parts of
it, as envisaged during appraisal. Because many eligible ranches in Regions
II and III are new "frontier" operations -- contrary to the traditional
ranching area of Region I - they are virtually undeveloped and require
considerable investment for complete development. Full on-ranch development
has been encouraged by a much improved market outlook and availability of
long-term Project financing on reasonable terms.
3.06      Input Mix.  The composition of on-farm investment financed in each
Project area is shown in detail in Annex 2. The most important change in the
composition of on-ranch investment has occurred in Region I where there has
be  tec_rJguenpas5ure establishment from a planned 56%
the developmet   ans.  nrsr-LrgS exten            h    e               fact
t     contrary to what was envisaged during appraisal, cattle were later
made an eligible item of investment (May 1970 and October 1972) taking on
the average 30% of total on-ranch investment. In terms of absolute amount,
only about 22,000 ha of pastures had been established as of March 31, 1972
in Region I, while about 83,000 ha were expected. This is attributed to:
(a) reluctance on the part of ranchers to tackle the complexities of proper
pasture establishment and management; (b) lack of experience on the part of
technicians, particularly in regard to pasture utilization; (c) problems in
supplying legume seeds (principally Lotus spp.) and inoculants; and (d) high
cost of pasture establishment due in part to high price of legume seeds and
fertilizers.
3.07      In Regions II and III, however, the average composition of the
input mix financed is, by and large, in accord with appraisal estimates.
Lack of research in Brazil, particularly regarding the establishment and
utilization of tropical legumes (Stylosanthes, Siratro and Desmodium), has
generally resulted in emphasizing traditional pastures of "Colonial" and
"Jaragua" grasses (Panicum maximum and Hyparrhenia rufa). In both Regions
II and III, however, investment in land clearing and in cattle has been
greater than predicted. This is understandable in view of the low state of
development of Matto Grosso and Goias ranches.



- 7 -
3.08      In general, investment in cattle has taken about 30% of total in-
vestment costs. While this is more than expected during appraisal, it would
be unwise to insist that investment plans eligible for Project financing
contain, as an inflexible rule, less than that proportion. The financing
of a limited number of cattle under the Project has hed the virtue of causing
other fixed investments (such as pasture establishment and related facilities)
to become productive earlier than would have been the case if incremental
stocking would have been achieved completely through the slower method of
cattle retention; it has acted as an additional investment incentive to
ranchers. This policy should be continued. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that the breeding cattle component of investment plans financed
under the Project would not exceed, on the average, about 30% of total invest-
ment.
C. Project Progress
3.09      Loan 516-BR became effective December 31, 1967.  However, there
were no subloans made during 1968 and only 37 during 1969 (Annex 1). This
lack of progress was due principally to: (a) delays in the appointment of
Project Directors; (b) unattractiveness of the Project's interest rate policy
until it was modified in May 1970 (para 3.14); and (c) initial lack of par-
ticipation of Banco do Brasil, the most important agricultural lender in the
country, which signed a subsidiary loan agreement and became active only in
June 1969. During and after 1970 progress became very satisfactory, there
were 77 subloans granted during that year; 313 during 1971 and 84 during the
first quarter of 1972.
3.10      Loan commitments and applications on hand as of March 31, 1972 in
all three Regional Offices would be sufficient to commit in full Project funds
for the lending program (62.5% IBRD and 37.5% Government) by December 1972.
The table below summarizes the pipeline as of March 31, 1972.



-8-
Regional Offices
_    -I        II              III            All
No.  US$'000/    No.  US$'000   No.  US$'000   No.  US$'000
1. Subloans in
disbursement   215   10,400       175   19,400   121   12,500   511   42,300
2. Subloans in
banks pending
signature       50    2,300       41    7,000      6       600    97    9,900
3. Projects in
preparation /2  43    2,300       87   14,000    48   -4700   178   21,000
Total Pipeline       308   15,000      303   40,400   175   17,800   789   72,200
Allocation of
Project funds         -    17,500       -    25,600    -    16,600    -    59,700
(1+2)               265   12,700      216   26,400   127   13,100   608   52,200
Balance for new
projects as of
March 31, 1972              4,800              (800)          3,500           7,500
/1   NCr$ converted to US$ at the rate of US$1 = NCr$ 5.54.
/2   Different stages; net of estimated losses for rejection and withdrawals.
It appears now that the disbursement of Loan 516-BR would be completed about
the original closing date of December 31, 1973. Annex 3 shows actual and
predicted quarterly disbursement of Loan 516-BR.
3.11      Meat Marketing Study.  The first project provided for a meat marketing
study to help set forth a program to bring the industry up to the modern stan-
dards of efficiency and sanitation. CONDEPE has started and carried out a
series of market studies and substantial progress has been made since 1967 in
improving cattle and beef marketing facilities 1/ in the country. In recent
months the Central Bank and several State Development Banks have carried out
meat marketing studies in connection with the preparation of an export-oriented
agro-industry project now in the appraisal stage. These different special
studies will need to be integrated and completed in a broader appraisal so as
to help Government to plan the long-term development of the livestock sector.
1/   Improvement of marketing facilities includes the construction of some
40,000 km of roads and 16 modern abattoirs between 1966 and 1972; the
federalization of meat inspection, already tested in the southern
states and to be progressively expanded to the rest of the country;
and the establishment of carcass grading to be tested during 1973.



- 9 -
During negotiations it was agreed that the Bank would furnish the Government
information to prepare terms of reference for an additional meat marketing
study that would assist the Government in the development of the sector.
3.12      Pasture Field Trials.  An important element of the First Project
was the progressive introduction of advanced techniques of pasture implantation
and utilization. Since, however, Brazil has had limited experience in these
techniques, the First Project provided for carrying out an appropriate program
of pasture field trials. Some field trials were carried out by CONDEPE in
Regions II and III, but they have been limited in scope and have not tackled
some important problems such as those relating to appropriate types of per-
manent pastures; forage conservation and aluminum toxicity in Region I; and
management of, and alternatives to, association of tropical legumes with native
grasses in Regions II and III. Resolving these and other technical problems
remains an important issue for the development of the livestock industry.
Therefore, CONDEPE should without delay make arrangements with local research
agencies to implement a program of selected field trials on pasture establish-
ment and utilization. Government has now agreed in consultation with the Bank
to hire qualified consultants, with experience in pasture implantation and
utilization under temperate and subtropical conditions, for about one to two
months, to help CONDEPE: (a) define the types of trials which need to be
carried out; (b) plan the implementation of such trials; (c) evaluate possible
implementing research agencies; and (d) organize actual implementation. The
specialist would make follow-up visits to evaluate results. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that such studies would be continued under the Second
Project.
D. Organization and Management
Participating Banks
3.13      Twenty-two private and Government-owned banks have participated in
the First Project (Annex 4). Together, through an extensive network of
agencies - Banco do Brasil alone having 480 offices within the Project
areas - they adequately meet Project needs. Participating banks are gen-
erally familiar with Project requirements and have instituted appropriate
procedures.  The Central Bank has compiled a manual of Project requirements
and regulations, which has been reviewed within the Bank. The revised manual
is now under issue. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the
present requirements and regulations would not be changed without prior
consultation with the Bank.
Financial Policies and Procedures
3.14      Terms and Conditions of Sublendin.  Long-term Project subloans
are for 12 years including a four-year grace period. In order to allow for
the effect of inflation on the real value of the subloan, the interest and
principal of long-term subloans are subiect to monetary correction. Arigin-
ally, the monetary correction was as follows (Annex 5): the balance of the



- 10 -
principal would be adjusted annually by an index based on cattle or cattle
and wool prices. The adjustment index would be obtained by deducting ten
points from the price index for each year of grace or the inflation rate
during the year, whichever was lower. An interest rate of 14% would be
applied to the adjusted principal, except during the grace period, when the
interest would be computed on the nominal balance outstanding. This indexing
mechanism was expected to yield a real interest rate of at least 7% per annum,
provided inflation did not rise above the 40-50% rate prevailing during ap-
praisal. These conditions seemed to be too onerous to potential participants,
particularly in view of the change in economic outlook that took place in
Brazil in the years following appraisal that resulted in an expectation for
a slowing down in the rate of inflation and caused the expected real interest
rate of Project subloans to rise above 7% per annum. In view of the lack of
interest of ranchers in Project participation, Government and the Bank agreed
in May 1970 on a new interest rate policy. The changes included: (a) under
the original indexing mechanism, a decrease in the nominal interest rate from
14% to 12%; and (b) the alternative, at the option of the sub-borrower, of
a 6% nominal interest rate fully indexed, including during the grace period,
based on either: (a) the cattle or cattle/wool price index, or (b) the index
of the official selling cruzeiro/dollar exchange rate. To date, no sub-borrower
has remained under the 12% alternative; about 60% have chosen the 6% cattle or
cattle/wool index alternative; and about 40%, principally in Region I, have
chosen the 6% foreign exchange index alternative.
3.15      From a practical standpoint, only the 6% interest alternatives
are of analytical interest. The modifications in subloan indexing policies
agreed upon in May 1970 intended that, contrary to the 12% alternative, the
6% alternative would include readjustment of the principal during the grace
period for the purpose of computing interest payments. This had not been
done prior to March 1972. The agreements of May 1970 envisaged that when
the foreign exchange index is applied, the interest shall be calculated
on the balance of the principal adjusted in accordance with the changes in
the US$ selling rate of the Banco do Brasil from the one prevailing on the
date of the loan. However, the foreign exchange index was in actual fact
calculated like the cattle/wool indices, that Is, as the weighted average
of exchange rates prevailing during the first six months of the year, and
applied to the succeeding "adjustment year" ruining from August 1 to July 31.
When these distortions were taken into consideration, the difference between
the nominal interest rate of 6% and the effective real rate of interest is
explained as follows: (a) in the case of the cattle/wool alternative, less
than 20% of the difference between the nominal and real rate of interest was
caused by the adjustment lag during the grace period and over 80% results
from the lags inherent in the method of calculating the index; (b) in the
case of the foreign exchange rate, 70% of the difference between the nominal
rate and the real rate was due to the fact that the foreign exchange grows
more slowly than the general price index, 25% was due to lags, and about 5%
results from no adjustment during the grace period.
3.16      The foregoing indicates that up to June 1972 the experience with
the indexing mechanism applied for the First Project was not satisfactory
Therefore, in order to improve the efficiency of the financial arrangements



- 11 -
of the Project, Government and the Bank found it desirable to simplify
that mechanism. After considering several alternatives, it has been agreed
that the change in the US dollar/cruzeiro exchange rate be retained as the
sole basis of monetary correction of Project subloans. It has also been
agreed to raise to 7-1/4% the nominal rate of interest applicable from its
actual level of 6%. Under this new arrangement, monetary correction would
be applied during the entire life of the subloan, including the grace period,
and interest would be charged on the corrected outstanding subloan. The index
applicable to any subloan payment would be that which would result from refer-
ring the US dollar selling rate of the Central Bank of Brazil prevailing on
the date when the particular subloan payment falls due, to that prevailing
on the day of the subloan.
3.17      The real interest rate resulting from applying a monetary correction
based on the foreign exchange index varies, of course, with the rates of
change in the average price level and in the price of the foreign exchange.
Recently, the annual rate of inflation in Brazil has been about 20%, while
the rate of increase in the US dollar exchange rate has been about 14%.
Under conditions similar to these, it is estimated that an indexing arrange-
ment, based on the foreign exchange rate, with 7-1/4% nominal interest rate,.
would yield a real interest rate to Project participants of about 2% per
annum. This rate would be lower than some non-agricultural lending rates in
Brazil although it would be substantially higher than any institutional agri-
cultural lending rate prevailing there. Most agricultural lending in Brazil
takes place at interest rates up to 15% without monetary correction for medium-
and long-term loans, supported by public funds. It is realized that the present
system is not perfect and still implies lending to ranchers at subsidized
interest rates.
3.18      In the agriculture sector Brazil made a beginning in ex post cor-
rection with the first livestock loan and the system has now been made
workable. It has been Government's policy to allow agricultural lending
rates to remain below industrial rates, partly as a compensation for the
high prices of agricultural inputs and protection to the industrial sector.
The system of monetary correction now evolved for the livestock project is a
step forward which would protect the principal (and interest) from erosion
by inflation. The Bank has a continuing dialogue with the Government about
agricultural lending policies and the Government has been gradually moving
towards extending coverage of loans with monetary correction.
3.19      Rediscounting Operations.  Rediscounting has been carried out through
the Central Bank's office in Rio de Janeiro. It was originally agreed that the
Central Bank would arrange to provide rediscount facilities through branches
of Banco do Brasil in order to expedite operations. Negotiations reportedly
were held between the Central Bank and Banco do Brasil but were unsuccessful.
Nevertheless, present arrangements are satisfactory and make it unneccessary
for the Bank to press these matters. Thus, Covenants of Loan 516-BR on this
matter would not apply to the second loan.



- 12 -
3.20      Arrears.  In general, ranchers' arrears to participating banks have
been reasonable, and the banks have been active in persuading borrowers to
make their payments on time. Delinquent borrowers of all banks are charged
a penalty of 1% on amounts overdue. Since this is a modest penalty, good
recovery performance depends largely on administrative actions which, so
far, have been adequate.
3.21      Accounting and Auditing.  The Central Bank maintains two sets of
accounts for its rediscounting operations for the Project: (a) the Live-
stock Loan Fund (FUNDEPE) covering long-term lending and (b) the Working
Capital Fund covering short-term lending to Project participants complementary
to the ranch development Plan. The Central Bank also maintains a Technical
Services Fund, which is a summary account of the sources and uses of funds
provided for Project related technical services. In addition, more detailed
accounts of expenditures for technical services are maintained by CONDEPE.
Audited financial statements for the three Central Bank accounts, certified
by the internal auditor of the Central Bank, have been received, but only
recently. It was agreed during negotiations that in the future such state-
ments would be submitted to the Bank within four months of the close of the
fiscal year. The Government is establishing an independent audit unit under
the aegis of the Monetary Council to conduct these audits, which will also
be subject to review by the Government Auditor. The unaudited financial
statements, heretofore submitted by CONDEPE, are to be audited by the internal
auditor of the Central Bank, and it has been agreed that in the future the
Bank would receive satisfactory audits for CONDEPE within four months after
the end of the fiscal year.
E. Technical Services
3.22      CONDEPE.  A National Commission (CONDEPE - Conselho Nacional de
Desenvolvimento da Pecuaria) was created by decree in 1967 together with the
Regional Commissions, in a manner consistent with the agreements reached
between Government and the Bank. The structure of CONDEPE was subsequently
modified, the principal modification consisting of making the Minister of
Finance and the Project Directors (para 3.03) members of CONDEPE's Board,
the latter without vote, and dropping from the Board the regional representa-
tives. Decree No. 67531 of 1970 vested top executive functions of CONDEPE
in the Minister of Agriculture, assisted by Technical and Financial Directors.
The Project organization as modified has worked reasonably well and has suc-
ceeded in maintaining autonomy of the Regional offices. It is being continued
during the Interim Second Project. Any further modification of Project ad-
ministration would be made, as agreed for the First Loan, in consultation
with the Bank.
3.23      Livestock Production Expert.  Government plans to hire an experienced
and qualified livestock production expert to advise the Project Directors in
the adoption of modern production techniques, and in general, to improve the
effectiveness of Project-related technical services. The expenditures related
to hiring such expert would be eligible for disbursement out of the proceeds
of the Second Loan. The experience, qualifications, and terms of reference
of the expert would be acceptable to the Bank. Assurances on this matter
were obtained during negotiations.



- 13 -
3,24      Ragtonal Commissions.  eSxperience with the First Project suggests
that it would be impractical to expect a regular and effective contribution
to the Project from the Regional Commissions (para 3.22). Their principal
object, which was to secure grass roots access to the Regional Offices'
management, ls satisfactorily fulfilled by the constant contact of the field
staifs with proltncers and bankers. Covenants of Loan 516-BR on this matter
wou3d not apply to the "econd Loan.
3.25      Staffing.  As of March 1972, Regional Offices I, II and III were
staffed with 18, 15 and 13 permanent technicians respectively. In the case
of Regional office I, the staff available at present would be sufficient to
handle the volume of work expected through December 31, 1973, but in
Regional Offices II and III, the staff is presently working at or near
capacity. Thus, in order to adequately meet Project needs Regional Office II
would need about nine new technicians and Regional Office III would have to hire
about two technicians during 1973. Appropriate assurances were obtained during
negotiations.
3.26      Staff Training Program.  The technical staff is good.  However,
since the Project-related training program has not been implemented during
the First Project because of a virtual freeze on overseas training programs
abroad as part of Brazil's austerity program, only a limited number of tech-
nicians have received coiAprehensive training in modern techniques of pasture
production and utilization. Yet the introduction of such modern techniques
is one of the most important ingredients of the First and Interim Second
Projects. Government has now made satisfactory arrangement to organize a
training program of 18 technicians in Australia and New Zealand.
3.27      Appraisal and Technical Assistance Procedures.  Although the quality
of technical assistance to beneficiaries has suffered from the lack of effect-
ive implementation of staff training programs and pasture field trials, invest-
ment plans are technically acceptable. In order to improve the economic and
financial analysis of ranch development planning under the Project, the Central
Bank is organizing, with the help of the Bank's Economic Development Institute,
a seminar on these matters for Project staff.
F. Impact of the Loan
3.28      Investment in ranching is of a slow-maturing nature and ranch
development in itself normally takes several years -- in the case of the
First Livestock Project, it is expected to take about three years. There-
fore, it would take five years or more to get a fair notion of the physical
and economic impact of ranch investment under the First Project. Although
the First Livestock Project became effective late in 1967, the majority of
ranch development subprojects are at the most two years old (Annex 3). It
is, therefore, too early to accurately estimate results of the First Livestock
Project.



- 14 -
3.29      Regional Offices I and III have made attempts to evaluate the impact
of investing in their respective Project areas. 1/ In Project Region I, the
Regional Office has tried to measure the changes in productivity parameters
relative to the situation before development on 11 properties where development
started three years earlier. The survey shows that the offtake increased on
the average from 13 to 16% (appraisal projections for similar stages of
development were 15%) and weaning rates increased from 50 to 58% (applicable
appraisal projections indicated 67%).  Because of the limited amount of
information, these estimates can only be taken as tentative.  Tneir inter-
pretation is further complicated by the fact that during the last three years,
there were outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease in Rio Grande do Sul as well
as one exceptionally severe frost, all of which affected productivity, par-
ticularly, weaning rates.
3.30      The approach taken in Regional Office III consisted of contrasting
on-ranch investments actually carried out against investments envisaged in
the on-ranch investment plans, at different stages of the subproject. This
comparison was made on samples of subprojects which were in their first,
second, and third year of ranch development. The survey concluded that at
year 3 more than 80% of the investments in land clearing, pasture establishment,
watering points, machinery and breeding cattle had been achieved and between
60 and 75% of investments in buildings, fences, and pasture consolidation.
This performance is reasonably good in view of the fact that a substantial
part of the third investment year was still pending and that some pasture
consolidation would take place in the fourth year.
3.31      The mission that appraised the Interim Second Project visited some
30 ranches and talked to some 150 participatir.g ranchers. From a technical
viewpoint, it concluded that it is likely that the productivity parameters
expected from investing in Project Regions II and III 2/ can be achieved
reasonably on target, that is, by subproject year 6. In Project Region I, the
expected productivity parameters 3/ can be achieved as scheduled provided that
more emphasis is placed on the implantation of properly selected perennial
pastures and that more attention is given to the supply of feed during the
winter months. The implementation of the research programs complemented
by the use of experienced consultants will no doubt contribute to that.
1/  All three Regional Offices have been distributing simplified ranch
account books to selected Project participants, and providing them
with assistance in their use. The information potentially available
from these books will no doubt contribute to a better evaluation of
the project in the future.
2/   Increase in weaning rate between 15% and 50%; decreases of mortality
rate ranging from 40% to 50%; and decreases in age-at-slaughter of
25% to 50%.
3/   In about seven to eight years weaning rate would increase by about
50% and mortality rate and age-at-slaughter would decrease by 40%.



- 15 -
3.32      The projections of the seven ranch development models built during
the First Project appraisal have been reviewed on the basis of actual oper-
ations experience (Annex 6). The table below shows that the estimates of
financial rates of return for the Second (Interim) Project are consistent
with the First Project (para 4.06).
Financial Rates of Return of First and Second Projects
Estimated During Appraisal
Interim
Farm Model           First Project   Second Project
_______(%) ___
1. Rio Grande do Sul
(a) 2,000 ha                   20                29
(b)   500 ha                   -                 26 /1
2.  Sao Paulo - Parana               19                16
3.  Pantanal                         19                21
4.  Planalto                         18                16
5.  North of Goias                   12                12
6.  South of Goias                   16                16
7.  Minas Gerais                     16                - /2
/1   A model reflecting medium-sized mixed beef/ cropping
model has been added.
/2   Because of their similarities, Models 6 and 7 have been
combined into one model.
IV. THE INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
4.01      The Interim Second Loan would supplement Loan 516-BR and would
assist in financing an Interim Second Livestock Development Project to be
restricted substantially to the same areas and purposes as the First Project.
Also, as under the First Project, the focus of the Project would be to in-
crease the production of animal products through pasture improvement, improved
breeding stock and better animal husbandry, thereby achieving better utiliza-
tion of vast areas of natural pasture lands suitable only for livestock pro-
duction. Project cost -- that is, the financial resources necessary to continue
lending during the 18 months between full commitment of the First Project Loan
and the expected date of Board consideration of a Third Project - would be



- 16 -
about US$52 million equivalent (para 2.04). Cost estimates, by investment
categories, are summarized in Annex 7, and would be financed as follows:
Bank        Government_      Ranchers          Total
Category          (US$ M)  (%)   (US$ M)  (Z%)   (US$ M)   (%)   (US$ M)  (%)
On-Ranch Develop-
ment Costs          25.0    50      15.0    30      10.0    20      50.0    100
Technical Services
Costs                1.0    50       1.0    5C       -       0       2.0    100
Total               26.0    50      16.0    31     10.0    19       52.0    1o0
On the above basis, the Loan would be US$26 mUllion (or 50% of Project cost);
Government would contribute US$16 equivalent `30% of Project cost), and the
rest, US$10 million equivalent (20% of Project cost), would he contributed by
beneficiaries. In particular, US$25 million of the Loan would be applied to
finance 62.5% of the Project lending program and US$1 million to finance 50%
of technical services. The foreign exchange component is comparable to the
First Project, about 14%, and consequently about 75% of the Loan (some US$19
million) would finance local currency expenditures.  This would be justified
on country grounds.
4.02      Financial arrangements for the Interim Second Project would follow
the pattern of the First Project including the revised subloan indexing
formula (para 3.16). Government would be the borrower and would make avail-
able the proceeds of the Loan, together with its contribution (which is
allocated annually by the Monetary Council) to the Central Bank's Livestock
Development Fund (FUNDEPE) (para 3.01). The term of the Loan would be 17
years, including 5-year grace. This term is predicated on making 12-year
subloans in Project-year 4, plus an allowance for slippage of one year. The
Central Bank would continue to refinance 100% of eligible subloans disbursed
by participating banks, which would have appropriate subsidiary loan agreements
with the Central Bank.  Subloans would cover 80% of the long-term financial
requirement of approved investment plans, and would be for a maximum of 12
years including a grace period up to a four-year.  Subloans would be fully
indexed on the basis of the foreign exchange Index and a nominal rate of
7-1/4% per annum (para 3.16). Participating banks would continue to receive
an interest spread of 3%. This has proved satisfactory in the past. In
addition the participating banks would continue to extend to beneficiaries
complementary short-term financing on the basis of the recommendations contained
in each development plan, at the interest rate prevailing in Brazil for similar
operations (currently 15% per annum), which they would be entitled to rediscount
up to 80% at the Central Bank.
4.03      Procedures for procurement and disbursement under the Interim Second
Project would continue as during the First Project. Any subloan exceeding
US$200,000 would require prior approval of the Bank and complementary short-
term financing would be provided by participating commercial banks.



- 17 -
4.04      Procurement. Procurement of the proceeds of the Bank loan would be
made through normal commercial channels. Bulk procurement and international
competitive bidding would not be practicable in view of the varying require-
ments of the approximately 700 individual farmers expected to participate in
the Project and also in view of the need to procure mach'nery which can be
serviced and repaired locally. While most of the equipment required is
manufactured locally and sold at competitive prices, about US$7.3 million or
14% of Project costs is expected to represent either imported equipment or
the import component of locally manufactured equipment.
4.05      Disbursements.  Disbursements of the Bank loan would be made against
62.5% of subloans paid out by the participating banks to the ranchers and 50%
of expenditures made from the Technical Services Fund. Disbursement requests
would be supported by statements of expenditures certified by Banco Central
do Brasil. The supporting documentation would not be submitted, but would
be retained by the Borrower and be available for inspection by the Bank,
during the course of a project supervision mission. Disbursements for Tech-
nical Services would be against normal documentation. (Annex 3, Table 2
shows the estimated schedule of disbursements).
Benefits and Justification
4.06      The First Project was expected to result in satisfactory returns
to participating ranchers and to the economy, as well as in other benefits,
more difficult to measure, such as demonstration of advanced production
techniques that could be applied to the large, still untapped potential
livestock resources of Brazil; familiarization of local personnel with
livestock development lending; and active involvement of the overall
banking system in long-term livestock production financing. Experience
thus far suggests that such expectation was not unwarranted. Estimated
financial returns to beneficiaries are good (para 3.31). In particular,
the First Project estimated that the financial return to the rancher in
Project Area I would be about 20%. On the basis of actual experience, it
is now estimated that a return of that nature would likely be achieved.
In many cases, it may well be greater than 20% because many participating
ranchers practice a mixed livestock/crop operation where crop yields benefit
from the residual fertility of pastures. In Regional Office II, it was
originally expected that participants would achieve returns ranging between
12% and 19% depending upon their location and initial state of ranch develop-
ment. Actual experience suggests that the range would more likely be 10O
to 17% because many of the actual and potential participating ranches are
less developed than initially envisaged. The overall economic return to the
economy would be about 23% (Annex 8) exceeding the estimate of 18% for the
First Project.
4.07      Fiscal Revenue:  Project participants would be affected principally
by the existing value added tax (Imposto sobre Circulacao de Mercaderias - ICM)
which accrues to the State Governments. ICM is 15% of sales and therefore,
a typical participant at full development would contribute annually about
NCr 45,000 (US$7,800) of incremental 1CM. The total incremental yield of
ICM during the Interim Project would be about US$5.5 million per year. The
income tax is of insigxiificant effect.



- 18 -
4.08      Cattle and Beef Marketing:  The First Project was concerned about
two beef and cattle marketing problems! (a) deficiencies in the marketing
infrastructure and procedures which threatened to constrain long-range live-
stock development, and (b) disincentives to investment in beef production
caused by Government policies that favored the urban consumer at the expense
of producers and exporters.  So that a prograu, aimed at bringing the industry
up to modern standards of efficiency and sanitation could be pLanned, the
First Project, therefore, included provisions for carrying out an appropriate
marketing study (para 3.03).
4.09      Deficiencies in marketing infrastructure and procedures included
insufficient and inadequate cattle transport, outmoded processing plants,
lack of auction markets, and lack of grading system. Beef and cattle mar-
keting, however, has been improved since 1967 with upgrading of facilities.
Some 40,000 km of roads and 16 modern abattoirs were constructed between
1966 and 1972; meat inspection was federalized -- this has already been
tested in the Southern states and is to be progressively extended to the
rest of the country; and carcass grading, to be tested in 1973, was
established.
4.10      Although there was no formal legal meat price ceiling in 1967,
SUNAB (Superintendencia Nacional do AbastecimLento), the Government supply
agency, was able to keep meat prices artificially low by operating a number
of strategically located slaughterhouse. Government underwrote the losses
incurred by SUNAB as a result of supplying meat to the principal urban
centers at artificially low prices. Early in 1970, Government withdrew
SUNAB from the cattle business with the intent of allowing domestic prices
to reach international level, thus providing a price incentile for the
expansion of livestock production. The freeing of internal prices, however,
came at a time when beef prices were rising rapidly on the world market.
Thus, the resulting increase in internal meat prices was substantially more
than expected. The price of both live cattle and beef rose about 65% between
December 1969 and November 1970. 'While conceivably providing incentive to
livestock producers, this increase conflicted with Government price stabili-
zation policy because meat has heavy weight in: the main price indices. Fur-
thermore, on the basis of forward export contracts available at the end of
1971, domestic prices were expected to go up still higher in 1971. At the
end of 1970, Government therefore took measures to prevent such increases
by: (a) suspending tax incentives for beef exports, and (b) prescribing for
1971 a 40,000-m-ton export quota for Central Brazil, which supplies the
Rio-Sao Paulo marketing areas. This quota system was made more flexible
for 1972, however, to achieve a balance between the two conflicting Govern-
ment objectives of simultaneously controlling beef price and encouraging
beef exports. The new quota allows 35,000 m ton for Central Brazil and
40,000 m ton for Southern Brazil, but exporters from Central and Southern
Brazil are also allowed to export 1.5 tons and 5 tons of additional meat,
respectively, for every ton storeci during the high-killing January-June
season. This storage is financed by the Bancc do Brasil on very favorable
terms and serves to increase the supply of me;,t during the part of the year
when beef is scarce and beef price are at the_r highest. Government has
said that it considers the export quota system as temporary and intends to
eliminate it as soon as supply is adequate.



- 19 -
4.11      Suimuing up, market conditions and facilities have substantially
improved vis a vis 1967, when the First Project was appraised. The Interim
Project appraisal mission discussed the beef and cattle marketing outlook
with Government officials, traders and manufacturers, and some 150 ranchers,
all of whom concurred that the outlook in Brazil is better than at any other
time during the last 10 years.  It is estimated that the initial joint beef
production of the 700 potential participants in the Interim Project is about
25,000 m tons carcass weight. It is expected to progressively increase to
a peak of about 90,000 m ton carcass weight 1/ in Project year-5 and from year
7 onwards stabilize at about 50,000 m ton per year equivalent to about 3%
of 1971 estimated national production and 25% of that year's exports. From
year 5 to 10, however, the annual production of surplus breeding heifers would
increase from some 20,000 to about 70,000, at which level it would stabilize.
It is not expected that there would be difficulty in marketing the extra output
on either the export or the domestic market.
V. AGRE}EMNTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      The assurances and covenants of Loan 516-BR would be continued in
the Interim Second Loan insofar as they are applicable (paras 3.12, 3.18,
3.23, 3.25). During loan negotiations, it was confirmed that Government
would:
(a)  in consultation with the Bank contract consultants to
conduct pasture field trials (para 3.12);
(b)  make arrangements satistactory to the Bank to
submit audited financial reports (para 3.21);
(c)  cause CONDEPE to engage a livestock production expert
with qualifications and under terms of contract satis-
factory to the Bank to advise Project Directors on
improving the efficiency of Project-related technical
services (para 3.23); and
(d)  cause CONDFPE to make arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank to secure the availability of sufficient staff to
provide adequate Project-related technical services
(para 3.25).
5.02      Also, during negotiations, agreement was reached with Government
that the meat marketing studies so far conducted would be broadened to assist
Government in the long-term development of the livestock sector (para 3.11).
1/   A large part of the increased production at this stage is contributed
from sale of steers purchased for fattening.



- 20 -
5.03      The Interim Second Livestock Development Project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$26 million for 17 years including a grace period of five years.
November 28, 1972



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE
SECOND INTERIM LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Size Distribution of Sub-Loans Under the First Livestock Develop.ent Prolect (1969 - March 31, 1972)
REGIONAL OFFICE I                        REGIONAL OFFICE II                       REGIONAL OFFICE III                             PROJECT
Average                                  Average                                   Average                                  Average
Number of       Total       Sub-Loan   Number of          Total       Sub-Loan   Number of         Total        Sub-Loan   Number of         Total       Sub-Loan
Sub-Loans   Sub-Lendin         size      Sub-Loans   Sub-Lending        site      Sub-Loans   Sub-Lending         size       Sub-Loans   Sub-Lending    size
(---US$ 000---)                          (---US$000---)                           (---US$OCO---)                            (---US$'O00---)
CALENDAR YEAR 1969 1/
Less than 35,000                  2             58            29           4              88            22           -              -             -            6             146          24
35 - 50,000                       3            115            38           4             181            45           4            177           44            11             473          43
50 - 100,000                      -              -                          4            302            76          10            829           83            14           1,131          81
100- 200,000                                                                -              -             -           6            767          128             6            767          128
More than 200,000                 -              -              -           -               -            -            -
All sizes                         5            173            35           12            571            48          20         1,773                          37           2.517          68
CALENDAR YEAR 1970 2/
Less than 35,000                  7            160            23            4             99            25            1            33            33           12             292          24
35 -   0,00                      2             90            45            5            216            43           3            126           42            10            432           43
s0 -100,000                       3            206            69            6            427            71          23         1,767            77            32          2,400           75
100-200,000                       -              -                        10           1,420           142          12         1,925           160            22          3,345          152
More than 200,000                 -              -                          1            227           227            -             -             -            1             227         227
All sizes                        12            456             38          26          2.389            92          39          3.851            99                       6.696           87
CALENDAR YEAR 1971 3/
Iess than 35,000                 68         1,531             23            8            218            27           2             60           30            78          1,809           23
35 - 50,000                      36         1,522             42           11            471            43           1             36           36            48          2,029           42
50 -100,000                      28         1,891             68           33          2,622            79          25          1,812           72            86          6,325           74
100-200,000                      17         2,390            141          54           R,016           148          25         3,845           154            96         14,251          148
More than 200,000                 -              -                          5          2, 758          552           -              -             -            5          2,758          552
All sizes                       149          7 334            49          1ll         14.085           i2z          5573                        1093.3  109   31         27.172 
JANUARY-MARCH 1972 4/
Less than 35,000                 18           470             26            2             57            29           -              _             -           20             527          26
35 - 50,000                      15           602             40            2             89            45           -              -             -           17            691           41
50 -100,000                      13            908            70           11            768            77           3            200           67            27          1,876           69
100-200,000                       3           465            155           10          1,236           124           6         1,007           168            19          2,708          142
More than 200,000                 -              -              -           1            194           194           -              -             -            1             194         194
All sizes                        49          2,445            50           26          2,344            U             9         1.207 fl                      84           5,996          71
195,9 Tn' MARCH 1972
1s- than 35,000                 95         2,219             23           18            462            27           3             93            31          116           2,774          24
35 - 50,000                      56         2,329             42           22            957            44           8            339           42            86          3,625           42
50 -I,fno00                      44         3,005             68           54          4,119            76          61         4,608             76          159         11,732           74
1l(-200,000                      20         2,855            143          74          10,672           144          49         7,544           154           143         21,071          147
More than 200,000                 -              -              -           7          3 ,179          454            -             -             -            7           3,179         454
All sizes                       215        10,408             48          175         19,389           111         121         12,584           104          511         42,381           83
1/ Tle rate of conversion used is I US5 -NCrS4,075.
7/ lHe rate  ,f conversion used is 1 US$-N(:r$4 592.
3/:/ rrte .f conversion used is I US$=VCr$5,286.
f o   rslts   ,i conversion used is I 0SS=NC r*5 742.
,    f r ';,   1972



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OP THE
INTERTM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMNBT PROJECT
Breakdown of Actual asd Eapected On-ranch Investment under the First Livestock De-elp-et Project
AIdjusted Appraisal Estleates
-------1969 -----                     -------1970 -----J------  971L -----                                         ---- January-Mars h 1972----           ---i1696-March 31, 1972----          As Equivalent to Yarch 31. 1972 
H. of                                Ho. of                                SN., of                                 So. of                                 No. of                                 So. of
Unite             Units          Total Cost              Units          Total Cost              Units         Total Coot               Unito          Total Cost              Units          Totol Cost              Units          Total Cost
(Us$-00~0)     )                       (usT7688T7%)                          (Us$000) T (%)                         (Us$-000)      %)                      (sS$'-001)     %)                       (USF-5%85F-7%)
REGIONAL. OFFICE I
LandClearing             .          ha..........-.-h.                                                -           -           -                                                             45        1           *-               45       -              -               
Pasture Eatbhlishnest.....          ha                8to             65      37           l,0L0             8i      17           13,533         i,O88      12           6,945            619      19          22,298          1,853      15          83,000          5,828       46
Pature Maistenance          . -     ha              1,573             54      31           4,203            146      31           14,322           687s      8           2,313            147       3          20,411          1,034        8         83,000          1,332       10
Pen.cing .Pa.........               k                   42            21       12             154            75      16            2,489         i,i08      13             954            471      15           3,639          1,673       13          3,900          1,554       12
Water Facilities.as......-                                              8       5             -              28        6              -            601.      7             -              329       10             -             969        8             -              777       6
FarM Buildings........ n.a.                            --                      ---                -                          -                     830       9             -340                    11                          1 ,170       9            -56                      -
PaIe Machiney........             s-a.                                 8       5             -               42       9              -             923      10             -354                    01             -            1,307      11             -1,443                   U.
Eree.diag Cattle........           head-                               -       -           1,397             68       14          36,338         2,876      33           8,2i6            755      04          45,951          3,699       29                    -           -
Miscellaneou...........17                                                     10              -              j5        7             -             729       8             -127                     i-908                                   7            -1,720                   i4
Total Office I ......173    100                                                                          473     10            ~8,845    100                                         3.187    100O                         iO,80      100710u   100
REGIONAL. OFFICE II
Land Cleariog .is......             b               8,676            i45       29         10,107            1721       9         100,284         2,365      13          24,262            263        8        143,329          2,343       12         6o,ooo          2,100        8
Pasture Establishoec                hs..  b         4,907             79      16          22,067            355       18         143,451         2,770      15          I.6,588           304      10         187,013          3,908       05        24o,ooo          6,i2o       4
Pasture Moioten.nc.......           ha              2,937             39        8            802             10        0          22,531           259       1          11,781             99       3          38,051            4o7        2        240,0o0            69o        3
Fencing .Pa.........                k                 171             33        7          1,167            243      13            5,256         1,329       8             319            292        9          7,513          2,093        8         13,400          4,158       17
Hater Facilities..n.......-                                            26       5             -               54       3              -            714       4             -              147        5             -             941,       4             -2,070                   8
Farm Bildisg.a..........42                                                     8a                           257      13              -           1,940      11             -349                    11             -2,588                   11            -1,120                    4
Por  Machiser.y...   ...            n.a               66              38        8             -             113        6             -             96        5             -110                      3            -1,177                    5             -           1,765        7
Breeding Cattle ....... head                          6137                      7          3,102            5o6       26          55.84i         5,342      23          10,487          1,147       37         76,031          7,032       29         00,730          3,600       i4
Slisceltooeoua                       -              ~~~     ~~~~                   ~      ~~~~                                ~~~~~57  12-  2i9  60 -  14  -422                  14             -3,3-00                 14             *.3,357                  -
Total Office IT.....                                              496    100                           1,929    1001  4 7    100                                                     3L133    100                         03,995    100                           2=4 980    1200
REGIONAL. OFFICE III
Land Clearing........               ha             17,394            395       24         32,601            742       13          45,738           923      13           7,212  L2/       177 4   10          102,945          2,237       16         72,000          1,980       14
Pastur  EotbhlicPa.st ....          ha             22,169            314      19          41,0(44           583       15          46,158           733      11           7,413  4/        183 Z/  11          116,784          1,819      13         153,000          3,299       24
Pastur  Photes-c. ...-              ha              7,839             62        4         22,891            179        4          33,861           296       4           3,409  4         133 j/   8           70, 000           670        5        153,000             410       3
Feaci.a......       .Pa.....                          644            151        9          1,802            421       it           2,449           672      10             6oo ~/         150                   5 ,495         1,334      10           8,200          2,128       15
Water Facilities ... .......47                                                  3             -              101       2              -            121       2              -- -                                   -             269        2             -              903       7
Farm  BuildiasH....     .          as.-                              187       12             -436                    11              -678                  10             -325                    19                          1,626      11             -662                      5
Pa   Machinery ........        .    sn                                86        5             -              90        2              -            116       2             -               53        3            -              345        2             -              873       6
Breeding Cattle.... ..... head                      3,404            217       13         16,t05          1,025       25          28,337         2,589      38           3,272            553       32         51,718          4,384       31          8,750          1,683       12
....e.....o...-183                                                    11             -              443       11             -             675      10             -              150        9            -           -1.451      10              -            ,5         13
Total Office III  1....i 642                                              wo                           4  2      100                         6 809    100                           1,724    10                           Ah5         10                          1378        0
PROJECT
Land Clearlg .......                ha             26,070            54o      23          42,708            312       10         146,022         3,288       9          31,474            435        6        246,274          5,225      10          90,200          2,924        6
Pastur  Eotahlishn..t               ha             27,886            458       00         64,121          1,013       16         203,142         4,537      13          30,946          ,i,o6      14         326,095          7,180      14         431,800         17,363       34
Pasture Minte-acc.......            ha             12,349            155        7         27, 836           335        5          70,714         1,242       4          19,503            379        5        130,462          2,111        4        431,800          3,227        6
Feaciag .Pa.........                k                 -              205        9             -             741       12              -          3,309      10             -              913      11          16,647          5,o68      10          22,440          7,292       i4
Hater facilities.0.0...-..81                                                    3                            1 83      3              -          1,439        4            -476                      6             -2,179                   4             -3,522                   7
Farm Bnildiogs........            0n.0-                              229       10                           633       11             -           3,448      10             -             ,oi4      13              -5,384                 11             -1,363                    3
Farm  Machinery .......              .,a-                            132        6             -245                     4             -           1,955       6             -              517       6              -2,849                   6            -4,512                    9
Breeding Cattlo.head......4,005                                       254      11         26,6o4          1,593       23         121,ii6        10,307      32          21,975          2,4         31        173,760o515                  3          21,422          3,720        7
. ..............                                              257       11             -697                    0              -         _,226      i2             -              699        7                         5-65       11                          6 .846      13
Tota,l Project                                                  2,311..101.6 4241100                                                           .091_100                             8,044      10                         50.8y0      100                         5=0,769    1_00
y Q-atity enpected at a project stage conparable to that reached is Parch 1972 uhes 60% of e-pected
on-ra-chi-vst-nt has heen, in fact, co-nitted.
4Records tor 1970 only ohow conso.lidated iveotoent in lasd clearing, pasture ectablisPaeat and posture
3nai sictensce. They have heen distrihuted is the san prponction a. 1971.
3/  ltinsted.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
BRAZIL
APPPAIS3AL OF THE
INTIRIM SECOND LIVES9TOCK DEVEWPMT  PROJECT
SCHE:TIES OF DISBURSENTS
- itimste't SchdLlt   of Disbursemints
ofee
As ef Agst 301 1972
ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS AS
ACCUMUIATED) DISB1R3E1: NIrS IN MILLIONS OF      A PSRENTAGE OF APPRAI-
U.S. DOLlUtS EQUIVALENT                 SAL ESTIMATE (UP TO IA-
TEST QUARTER) OR IATEST
IBED                    LITE:ST                          -        - ESTIMATE OF DISBRUSE-
FISCAL                                      REVISED             MENTS AS A PERCENTAGE
YEAR          ACTUAL TOTAL    A?PRAI3AL   ESTIMATE              OF APPRAISAL ESTIMATE
AND           DISBURSEMENTS   ESTT JATE     (on 3/23/71)        (FOR FUTURE QUARTERS)
QUARTER             I              2              3             (1',.2xlOO or (3,2xlOO)
1970/71
1st                              -
2nd            3,300         9230             3,300                     17
3rd               -          2-;.0            14,300                    _
4th            5,150         26,100           5,800                     20
1971/72
1st            8,600         29.100           7,800                     29
2nd           11,100         3',100          10,300                     35
3rd           114,600        33,100          13,100                     414
14th
16,600         35,100          16,300                     47
1972/73
1st           20,953         37,100          20,100                     56
2nd                          38,900          214,300                    62
3rd                          39,500          28,800                     72
14th                         40,000          33,300                     83
1973/74
lat                                          36,800                     92
2nd                                          39,000                     97
3rd                                          40,000                    100
| Closing Date: s   12/31/73   |   12/31/73
July 17, 1972



ANNEX 3
Table 2
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE
INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PRWECT
SCHZDUIES OF DISBURSEMENTS
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
of the Second Lcan
(UST26,o million)
Fiscal Year               Quarter Ending                    Disbursement
Quarterly        Cumalative
---- us$'    -------
1972/73                  March 31, 1973                   500               500
June 30, 1973                 1,600             2,100
1973/74                  September 30, 1973             2,000             4,100
December 30, 1973             2,500             6,600
March 31, 197h                3,000             9,600
June 30, 197L                 3,000            12,600
1974/75                   September 30, 197h            2,000            1)4,600
December 30, 1974             1,900            16,500
March 31, 1975                1,800            18,300
June 30, 1975                 1,700            20,000
1975/76                   September 30, 1975            1,000            21,000
December 31, 1975             1,000            22,000
March 31, 1976                1,000            23,000
June 30, 1976                 1,000            24,000
1976/77                   September 30, 1976            1,000            25,000
December 31, 1976             1,000            26,000
September 25, 1972



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE
INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Arrangements
A. The National Financial System
1.        Pursuant to Law 4595 of December 31, 1964, as subsequently amended,
the National Financial System consists of the:
(a) National Monetary Council;
(b) Central Bank of Brazil;
(c) Bank of Brazil, S.A.;
(d) National. Bank for Economic Development; and
{e) Other public and private financial institutions, namely:
(i) Federal Savings Bank and state savings banks;
(ii) Private banks;
(iii) Cooperative lending associations;
(iv) Loan, finance, and investment companies.
2.        Members of the National Financial System wishing to carry on rural
credit operations may do so provided they are authorized by the Central Bank
and act in accordance with the standards and conditions established by the
National Monetary Council.
National Monetary Council
3.        The composition of the Council is as follows:
(a) Chairman: Minister of Finance;
(b) Vice Chairman: Minister of Planning and Coordination;
(c) Second Vice Chairman: Minister of Industry and Commerce;
(d) Minister of Agriculture;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(e) Minister of Interior;
(f) President of the Central Bank;
(g) President of the Bank of Brazil;
(h) President of the National Bank for Economic Development; and
(i) Six members appointed by the President of the Republic for
four-year terms.
The following consultative committees function as advisory and support units
to the National Monetary Council: Banking, Capital Market, Rural Credit and
Industrial Credit.
4.        The Council is responsible for establishment of the country's
monetary and credit policy and has the following objectives:
(a) to regulate the value of the cruzeiro, adjusting monetary
reserves to the needs of the economy;
(b) to maintain the international value of the currency;
(c) to establish standards for channelling public and private
credit which will foster economic development;
(d) to coordinate policies concerning monetary and fiscal
matters and internal and external public debt; and
(e) to issue standards governing the operations of public
and private financial institutions, in order to maintain
their solvency and ensure that their operations are
consonant with the objectives of the Banking Reform Law.
Central Bank of Brazil
5.        The Central Bank of Brazil (Central Bank) is the executing body
of the National Monetary Council for credit and monetary policy. The
functions of the Central Bank. include the following:
(a) to exercise supervision over credit;
(b) to provide rediscounts and loans to financial institutions;
(c)  to receive voluntary and mandatory deposits from financial
institutions;
(d) to authorize the operations of financial institutions, the
opening of branches and agencies, and modifications in
their organization;



ANNEX 4
Page 3
(e) to examine the operations of financial institutions;
(f) to negotiate with international financial institutions, on
behalf of the Brazilian Government;
(g) to promote the placement of internal and external funds; and
(h) to perform services related to money in circulation.
6.        The Central Bank is administered by a Board of Directors composed
of five members (one of whom is its Chairman) appointed by the National
Monetary Council. It has Regional Offices in Belem, Belo Horizonte, Curitiba,
Fortaleza, Porto Alegre, Recife, Salvador, Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo.
7.        Refinancing operations within the First Livestock Development
Project are the responsibility of the Coordinating Office for Rural and
Industrial Credit (GECRI). This office also administers the resources of the
General Fund for Agriculture and Industry (FUNAGRI), which are used to re-
discount debt instruments originating in agricultural and industrial operations
that further the objectives of the Brazilian Government.
Bank of Brazil S,A.
8.        The Bank of Brazil S.A., founded in 1808, is the largest and most
important banking institution in Brazil. It is a mixed corporation whose
principal stockholder is the Federal Government, with 55% of its shares.
The Board of Directors consists of the President and the Director of the
Foreign Trade Department --both appointed by the President of the Republic--
and two other directors elected by the stockholders.   On December 31, 1971,
the value of deposits in the Bank of Brazil was Cr$21.3 billion, while its
total assets amounted to Cr$47.9 billion.
9.        In addition to serving as a commercial bank, it acts as financial
agent of the National Treasury and depository of government funds. It has
744 branches throughout the country and nine branches and two offices abroad.
Other banks maintain substantial deposits in it.
National Bank for Economic Development and other Development Banks
10.       The development plans of the Brazilian Government with respect to
the various sectors of the economy are financed by the following institutions,
specifically organized for the purpose: National Bank for Economic Develop-
ment (BNDE), Banco do Nordeste do Brasil, Banco da Amazonia, Banco do
Desenvolvimento do Extremo Sul and state development banks.
11.       The BNDE, wlhich operates throughout the country, is a public
entity whose capital is subscribed by the Government. Besides the resources
obtained through use of its capital and accumulated profits, this Bank's
loan funds come from government grants; compulsory deposits of saving banks,
insurance and trust companies, and the Social Welfare Institute (INPS);
obtained from income taxpayers; and resources obtained through agreements
between Brazil and the United States under U.S. Public Law 480.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
12.       The field of credit: operations of the BNDE includes expansion and
rehabilitation of the railway system; repair and development of port facilities
and the navigation system; construction and development of electrification
system; establishment of basic industries; construction and expansion of
warehouses and silos, slaughhterhouses and canning plants; and development of
agriculture as regards rural electrification, through the harnessing of small
waterfalls. BNDE does not extend agricultural credit.
Commercial Banks
13.       Brazilian banks are organized as stock companies.  As a rule, they
limit their activities to specific regions and concentrate on short-term
discounting and working capital operations. Some specialize in foreign
trade, others prefer seasonal financing, and still others provide domestic
trade credit and real estate loans. The foreign banks specialize in financing
foreign trade and in providing credit to international companies. At the
present time, resources of commercial banks consist primarily of demand or
short-term deposits.
Savings Banks
14.       Brazil has a federal system of publicly owned savings banks which
accept deposits from the public and provide checking services. About 90% of
their deposits are demand accounts. The savings banks set aside almost 50%
of their deposits for mortgage operations, and are important investors in the
real estate sector. The Federal Savings Bank helps finance the activities of
the Federal Government by purchasing stocks and bonds of autonomous agencies
and by depositing funds with the Treasury.
Supply of Credit for the Agricultural Sector and the Livestock Subsector
15.       At the end of 1965, the banking system had loans outstanding to the
agricultural sector of about Cr$1.4 billion, of which approximately Cr$0.2
billion was for livestock. 13y the end of 1970, loans outstanding for agri-
culture had increased to Cr$112.3 billion, of which Cr$3.2 billion was for
livestock. Even in real terms, the growth was substantial: loans outstanding
for agriculture almost doubled, while those for livestock quadrupled.
16.       Loan commitments for the agricultural sector were approximately
Cr$.1.0 billion in 1965 and iLncreased to about Cr$9.2 billion in 1970. Of
these amounts, about Cr$0.2 billion and Cr$2.5 billion, respectively, were
for livestock. In real terms, commitments for agriculture in 1970 were at
about twice the level for 1965, while those for livestock were higher by a
factor of about 3.
17.       The Bank of Brazil plays a prominent role in agricultural lending,
having accounted for 54% of :Loans outstanding for agriculture at the
end of 1965 and about 63% at the end of 1970. In terms of commitments, the
Bank of Brazil accounted for 47% of agricultural lending in 1970; Banco do Estado
Estado de Sao Paulo was the next most active with 7%. Federal and state banks,



ANNEX 4
Page 5
headed by the Bank of Brazil, accounted for 65% of loan commitments for
agriculture in 1970, while private banks contributed 34% and savings banks
and credit cooperatives 1%.
18.       In 1967, in an effort to channel additional financing into agricul-
ture, the National Monetary Council passed a resolution requiring banks to lend
an amount equal to 10% of their deposits, in the agricultural sector. Most of
this lending is short-term, however, since the risk is lower and the return
higher.
19.       The major part of total institutional credit to agriculture is short-
term, generally for periods up to 120 days. Interest and discount rates range
from about 1.1 to 1.4% per month. Some medium-term credit (two to five years)
and, in special cases, long-term credit (up to 12 years) is made available
for agricultural machinery, implements, farm buildings, and the like, primarily
from the Bank of Brazil. The ceiling rate of interest for this lending cur-
rently is 13% for loans up to 50 times the highest minimum wage prevailing
in the country (the Bank of Brazil charges 10%) and 15% for loans above that
amount.
20.       Government approved three new development programs in 1971.  The "Pro-
grama de Desenvolvimento do Centro-Oeste" (PRODOESTE) covers the southern parts
of the states of Mato Grosso and Goias (both are included in the project) up
to the 13th parallel. A total of Cr$650 million (about US$110 million) is
scheduled to be spent over the years 1972-1974 for highways (Cr$460 million),
secondary roads (Cr$50 million), storage and slaughterhouse facilities
(Cr$ 90 million), and sanitation facilities (Cr$50 million). This program
could have an important complementary effect on the project in the areas
involved.
21.       The "Programa de Redistribuicao de Terras e de Estimulo a Agro-
industria do Norte e do Nordeste" (PROTERRA) is a package of programs designated
to stimulate development in the northern and northeastern parts of the country,
north of the 13th parallel. An amount of Cr$4,000 million (US$688 million) has
been authorized to be spent over the years 1972-1976. Although the program
is still being evolved, the basic elements include acquisition and redistribu-
of land, loans to small and medium producers for the acquisition and develop-
ment of properties, financing of agro-industry, financing for farm development
and small infrastructure, subsidization of modern inputs, and price support
for export products. Although apparently no cattle purchases are permitted
under the PROTERRA programs (thus diminishing ranchers' interest considerably),
the interest rate on financing provided is around 7% (real rate of about - 11%).



ANNEX 4
Page 6
B. Financial Arrangements for the First Livestock
Development Project and Proposed Modifications
for the Interim Project
Participating Banks
22.       Eligibility.  Banks wishing to participate in the current project
are so authorized by the Central Bank on the basis of the following minimum
criteria:
(a)  experience in agricultural credit;
(b) competence of staff and management and efficiency of
administration;
(c) the ability to handle the additional lending operations
under the project;
(d) competence in carrying out operations complementary to
subloans granted under the project;
(e) good financial situations;
(f) record of stable earnings;
(g) adequate number of offices operating within the project
area; and
(h) ease of communication among bank offices.
23.       Participation.  As of March 1972, 22 private and government-owned
banks had been approved for participation in the project, 16 of which had
utilized their lines of credit from the Central Bank for refinancing of
sub-projects. The participating banks are listed below, together with
their allocations:



A NNEX 4
Page 7
Allocation as of March 1972
(Cr$ million)
Banco America do Sul S.A.                                      15
Banco Antonio de Queiroz S.A.                                   8
Banco Bamerindus do Brasil S.A.                                18
Banco do Brasil S.A.                                           80
Banco Brasileiro de Descontos S.A.                             30
Banco Comercial Brasil S.A.                                     5
Banco Comercio e Industria de Sao Paulo S.A.                   20
Banco de Credito Real de Minas Gerais S.A.                     40
Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Sao Paulo S.A.            6.5
Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais                        5
Banco do Estado de-Goias S.A.                                  24.5
Banco do Estado do Parana S.A.                                  5
Banco do Estado do Rio Grande do Sul S.A.                       8
Banco do Estado de Sao Paulo S.A.                              25
Banco Financial de Mato Grosso S.A.                            60
Banco Industrial e Comercial do Sul S.A.                         2
Banco Mercantil de Sao Paulo S.A.                                2
Banco Nacional do Comercio S.A.                                 15
Banco da Provincia do Rio Grande do Sul S.A.                     4
Banco Real S.A.                                                20
Banco Regional de Desenvolvimento do Extremo Sul                 5
Caixa Economica do Estado de Minas Gerais                       10
TOTAL                                    408



ANNEX 4
Page 8
These banks provide adequate coverage of the project area, with the Bank of
Brazil alone having about 480 offices within the project boundaries.
24.       After an initial reluctance to part-cipate in the project, the
Bank of Brazil is now active in two of the three project regions; only in
Region III is it relatively inactive. This does not appear to be a major
problem, however, because other banks are providing adequate facilities.
Nevertheless, the Bank of Brazil could ado further impetus to the project in
Region III, since it has established banking relationships with many of the
potential borrowers. The matter was drawn to the attention of Government,
which stated that it intended to encourage the. Bank of Brazil to increase its
participation there although it was not optimistic about effecting a signif.ic-
ant change in the near future.  Managers of the Bans of Brazil exercise con--
siderable autonomy within their sphere of operations, and the principal
manager in Region III apparently is not fully convinced of the benefits of
the project.
25.       Most participating banks seem to be familiar with project require-
ments and have instituted appropriate procedures. The Central Bank has made
a compilation of the project requirements and regulations, which has been
reviewed by the Bank and which should prove helpful as a single reference
for all project matters.
Refinancing Operations
26.       Supply of Government Funds to the Project.  An estimated statement
of combined first and second Projects cash flow is presented in the Appendix.
The Government has provided adequate funds to cover its participation in the
project on the basis of yearly allocations decided upon by the Monetary Council,
except for the technical services component. -n this case, the Central Bank
has made advances to the Technical Services Fuad with the expectation that it
will be reimbursed by the Government.  The amount involved is relatively small
(Cr$5.9 million, or about US$1.0 million, as of December 31, 1971).
27.       Refinancing.  Refinancing operations under the project are carried
out through the Central Bank's office in Rio de Janeiro. The Project Agree-
ment, dated September 23, 1967, stipulates that the Central Bank would make
arrangements to provide rediscount facilities through branches of the Bank
of Brazil in order to expedite the operations (Section 2.01 (d)).  Negotiations
reportedly were held between the Central Bank and the Bank of Brazil but were
unsuccessful. The present arrangement, however, is satisfactory.
28.       Records on disbursements by the part-cipating banks are maintained
only bv the banks themselves and the data are rot compiled at anv point in
the system. However, the commitment records maintained by CONDEPE and the
refinancing data available from the Central Barnk provide a reasonable indication
of the progress of project lending operations. Except in the case of the
Bank of Brazil, the lag between disbursement and refinancing is small. The
Central Bank processes requests generally with-. n two days, and some participating
banks are able to obtain refinancing within five days of preparation of the
request.  In the majority of cases, the interval between disbursement and
refinancing appears to be about 15 days. Because of its high liquidity and



ANNEX 4
Page 9
the small amount of project lending compared with its other operations, the
Bank of Brazil submits requests for refinancing only at infrequent intervals.
The lag between disbursement and refinancing in its case averages about two
months.
Sub-Lending
29.       Financial Appraisal of Ranch Development.  The mission noted that
CONDEPE's financial analysis of ranch development plans was incomplete,
particularly with regard to incremental income aspects and the provision of
short- and medium-term financing. The total income analysis now used by
CONDEPE provides useful knowledge about changes in the rancher's overall
financial condition and would be retained. It would be supplemented on a
consistent basis, however, by an incremental income analysis, requiring
essentially the addition of a "before development" categorv to the financial
projections. Many CONDEPE officials insisted that figures on the rancher's
income before development are unreliable, but estimates would be adequate
for comparison with the projections. The determination of short- and medium-
term financing requirements would be as indicated in paragraph 46. Cash-flow
statements would be revised to give a clear indication of the financing needs.
Furthermore, the general format for ranch development plan appraisal would be
standardized for all regions in order to facilitate comparisons and the
interchange of information and ideas.
30.       Expenditure Control. At present, CONDEPE verifies completion of each
stage of the ranch development plan before authorizing the participating
bank to release funds for the next stage. However, this verification is
carried out on the basis of the physical installation of facilities rather than
on the basis of costs incurred. Generally, the cost allowed is that provided
in the development plan and the cost sharing is therefore influenced by the
accuracy of estimates made at the time of preparation (para 44). At some
point, there should be a comparison of costs incurred with work completed.
31.       In order to ease the burden on CONDEPE, this function would be carried
out by the participating bank. The rancher would be required to submit receipts
for all project purchases to the participating bank. The funds for a subsequent
stage would be released only after a CONDEPE had verified that the facilities
and items for the previous stage had been installed or purchased and (b) receipts
had been submitted by the rancher verifying the use of funds for purchases in
the previous stage. Since variations will occur, cases would be brought to
CONDEPE's attention by the participating bank only when the difference between
estimated cost and cost incurred reached a level to be agreed upon (perhaDs 10%
or 15%). In these cases, CONDEPE would reinspect, comparing receipts with
work completed, in the field and form a judgment as to the justification for
the discrepancy.
32.       Control of the funds allocated to contingencies is especially
difficult. As indicated in para 44, the rancher's share of the allocation
to contingencies would be 20%. In cases where the contingency funds were
needed, CONDEPE would issue a specific authorization to the participating
bank, as at present, and would indicate the allocation of contingency funds
among the items to which they would be applied.



ANNTEX 4
Page 10
33.       Participating banks are required to disburse directly to suppliers
except where disbursement to the rancher is authorized by CONDEPE. Particularly
in Regions II and III, these authorizations have been rather frequent, and
CONDEPE should be encouraged to limit them to situations where they are clearlv
required. Disbursements direct to suppliers should occur in all cases except
labor inputs.  In order to help ensure that th2 rancher actually provides his
20% contribution, participating banks would disburse 80% of the cost of an
item after receiving evidence that the rancher had already made a payment
of 20%.  This procedure is utilized by the Bank of Brazil, apparently with
success, and should be applicable to other banKs as well.
34.       While subloans under the project are to be granted for a term o-
nine to 12 years, most subloans in practice carry a nominal term of 12 years.
Because the repayment date is chosen by the rancher and normallv does not
coincide with the signing date, however, the actual term varies between 11
and 12 years.  A similar variation occurs in the grace period.  The grace
period stipulated for the project is three to four years, but in practice
a four-year period is usually granted. This is interpreted to mean that the
first repayment is made on the repayment date following the fourth anniversary
of loan signing. A quirk in the application o_ the grace period provides
that each tranche of a subloan (defined as the total of disbursements made
in a calendar year) carries a separate grace period of equal length, even
though the overall term of the subloan remains at 12 years. This procedure.
while in keeping with the letter of the loan agreements, is contrary to what
was intended, and therefore Government and the Bank have agreed that a single
grace period should be observed in the future -for all tranches of a given
subloan.
Cost of Subloans to Beneficiaries
35.       Interest and Principal.  A salient feature of the project is the
mechanism of interest and principal adjustment to moderate the effects of
inflation on the real value of the sub-debt. The procedures applied and
their results are analyzed in more detail in Anrnex 5. Essentially, ranchers
have had three alternatives as to lending terms: (a) interest at 12%, partial
indexing based on cattle or cattle/wool prices, (b) interest at 6%, full
indexing based on cattle or cattle/wool prices, or (c) interest at 6%, full
indexing based on the cruzeiro/dollar exchange rate (letters of May 28, 1970).
The indexing adjustment in each case has been Limited to that which would
result from applying the general price index (Letter of June 4, 1971). 1/
36.       To date no one has chosen the 12% alternative; about 60%, have
chosen the 6%, cattle or cattle/wool index alternative; and about 40%, principally
in Region I, have chosen the 6% foreign exchange index alternative. The
fact that ranchers in Region I have opted almost exclusively for the foreign
exchange index while those in Regions II and III have selected primarily the
1/   Effective June 22, 1972 Government and thn  Bank agreed on a simpler
formula consisting of interest at 7-1/4%,, full indexing based on the
rate of exchange.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
cattle index may be explained in part by the familiarity of the former with
fore-ign transactions and zne foreign exchange rate mechanism. Even though
the alternatives are explained to them, ranchers in Regions II and III
continue to choose the cattle index, to their disadvantage, perhaps because
it is something to which they can relate. In addition to their understanding
of the foreign exchange index, ranchers in Region I may be influeanced to some
extent by the strong advocacy of the regional CONDEPE office, which, in
contrast to the other two regional offices, does the preparation of almost
all sut-Oprojects and therefore is in close contact with the rancher from
an early stage.
37.       Assuming that interest on subloans is calculated on the adjusted
principal during the grace period and that, in the case of the foreign exchange
index, there is no lag in indexing, the real interest rate under the 6%,
cattle or cattle/wool index alternative is about 3.3% and that under the 6%,
foreign exchange index alternative is about 0.7% under present conditions.
in comparison, the maximum rate for agricultural lending outside the Bank-
and IDB-supported livestock projects is 15% nominal, generally at terms up
to five years (medium-term lending of two to five years is provided primarily
by the Bank of Brazil). With inflation at 20% per annum, this nominal rate
corresponds to a real interest rate of about -5%. Therefore, even with the
indexing distortions, the real interest rates under the project are considerably
higher (some 6 to 8%) than other rates currently prevailing in the sector. (It
i,st be recognized, however, that there is virtually no long-term lending in
the sector other than under the Bank- and IDB-supported projects.)
38.       The question arises as to whether lending for livestock, by the
Bank of Brazil in particular, at terms up to five years and a nominal interest
rate of 151% would interfere with lending under the project. At the present
time, the gutideline indicated by the Central Bank is that a rancher desiring a
loan exceeding 500 maximum basic salaries (currently about Cr$113,000 or
US$19,000) qualifies for consideration under the project. The Bank, however,
has requested that this artificial limitation be eliminated, and the effective
dividing line will therefore be the Bank of Brazil's loan limit for agricul-
tural lending, presently Cr$80,000. Because of the size of loans under the
:oject, only in Region I might a significant problem of overlap develop, and,
ev'en in this area, the average size of project loans is Cr$270,000. Thus, the
resolution of the potential difficulty is accomplished through administrative
arrangements and depends on the cooperation of the Bank of Brazil, which has
been reasonable to date.
39.       Other Financial Charges.  Financing charges other than interest
have not been taken into account in the interest rate calculations because
they are minimal and because thev vary from bank to bank. In the case of the
Bank of Brazil, for example, a flat fee of 1% of the total of the subloan
amount plus the interest for six months is charged at the time of signing.
In addition, an annual insurance fee of about 0.35% to 0.75% on the cost of
goods financed is charged to the borrower.
40.       Prepayments.  The Central Bank reported that there had been about
six cases of prepayment of subloans by ranchers. No detailed information
was available, but reportedly most, if not all, were voluntary. The reasons



ANNEX 4
Page 12
for these were not known. The mission was also informed that indexing was
applied to these prepayments, even though they occurred during the grace periOG.
The principal amount was adjusted on a cumulative basis and the current interes:
payment was adjusted, but previous interest payments were not adjusted
retroactively. No penalty is imposed for prepayment, and the lack of one
seems reasonable for a project of this type in which it would appear desirable
to reallocate funds from those who cannot make effective use of them to those
who can.
41.       Arrears.  In general, ranchers' arrears to participating banks have
been within reasonable limits, and the banks have been active in persuading
borrowers to make their payments on time. Excluding the Bank of Brazil, five
banks reported 15% of their borrowers in arrears as of March 1972, with an
average ratio of arrears to amounts outstanding to borrowers in arrears of
about 4%. The Bank of Brazil also reported the latter ratio at about 4%,
but 64% of its borrowers were in arrears. The mission was told by one of
the branch managers of the Bank of Brazil that he did not become concerned
until a borrower was in arrears by a year. If, in fact, borrowers in arrea:s
pay within six months of the due date, as appears to be true in the majority
of cases, the situation is manageable. However, all loans are still in tbcx.
grace period, and care must be taken that excessive leniency does not begin
to cause problems when principal payments start to become due. Delinquent
borrowers are charged 7% (6% plus a penalty charge of 1%) on amounts overdue,
which is hardly sufficient to induce them to pay on time. Consequently,
good recovery performance will depend largely on administrative actions. The
Central Bank maintained that the participating banks were making payments to
it on time, with a delay of a day or two in a few cases.
42.       Rancher's Contribution:  The rancher's contribution is verified by
CONDEPE but probably varies from case to case. Since contingencies sometimes
form a higher proportion of the rancher's planned contribution, his actual
contribution depends on whether or not the contingencies are required for
implementation. In order to promote a closer approximation of the cost
sharing envisaged under the project, the rancher's portion of the allocation
for contingencies would be set at 20%.   The rancher's actual contribution is
also affected by the accuracy of the estimates in the ranch plan as discussed
in paragraph 31. Ranchers complain about having to provide 20% of the
investment cost, and CONDEPE officials maintain that many are prevented from
participating in the project by this provision. On balance, however, it seems
reasonable in view of the financial condition of the average potential
participant and does not seem to have been a significant hindrance to project
implementation.
43.       Short-Term Financing.  Short-term financing is provided by the
participating banks to meet the seasonal working capital requirements of
ranchers and medium-term financing to meet any sizeable cash shortfall covering
the early years of ranch plan development. One of the greatest needs for short-
term financing is the purchase of steers for fattening, and it generally has
been tied to this purpose at least nominally. Even medium-term financing is
tied to fattening operations since ranchers frequently purchase steers and
keep them through both the raising and fattening stages.



ANNEX 4
Paee 13
44.       The difficulty is that the amount of short- and medium-term
financing provided a rancher is determined, in practice, by allowing an arbitrary
proportion of the long-term financing granted that rancher. The limit in use
is 30%. Wlhile some flexibility in application of this limit was noted by the
mission, the rancher frequently was given 30% short- and medium-term financing,
regardless of the requirements of his development plan. In some cases, it
was clearly excessive and in others, insufficient. It would be desirable
that short-term financing be provided only on the basis of the need for the
purchase of fattening steers. CONDEPE would ensure strict compliance with
the stipulation that the number of fattening steers included in the ranch plan
be based strictly on the excess pasture capacity in the early years which
results from the implementation of the ranch development plan itself, taking
care not to jeopardize the winter feeding of the breeding herd.
Reporting and Auditing Requirements
45.       Although reporting performance under the first project has been
unsatisfactory, the Bank has reviewed the situation with the Central Bank
and CONDEPE and a format for the statements has been agreed upon. It is
expected that improved coordination between the Central Bank and CONDEPE and
the new format will result in the timely submission of complete reports.
46.       The appraisal mission proposed that project accounts of the Central
Bank and CONDEPE should be audited by the Government Auditor. However, the
Central Bank claimed that the Government Auditor does not have jurisdiction
over its accounts. The appraisal mission was of the opinion that the per-
tinent regulations indicate otherwise. This matter will be clarified during
negotiations. If the Government Auditor does not have the necessary authority,
the Bank should agree to auditing by the internal auditor of the Central Bank.
October 27, 1972






AFNEX h
Appendix
B RA Z I L
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CENTRAL BANK CASH FIOW ON IBRD FUNDS
Year            Inflow                  Payment        Surplus         Cumulative
Annual    IBRD Share            to,            or
_____        62.5%             IBRD        Deficit ( )
(1)       (2)          (3)                (4)            (5)             (6)
---  us$ ooo--
1973         70          44                605           (561)           (561)
1974         550        344              1,235           (891)          (1,I452)
1975      1,350         844              1,625           (781)          (2,233)
1976      1,580         988              1,885           (877)          (3,110)
1977      1,920       1,200                943            257           (2,853)
1978       3,310      2,069              3,281         (1,212)          (4,065)
1979      5,590       3,494              3,281            213           (3,852)
1980      6,100       3,813              3,281            526           (3,326)
1981       6,250      3,906              3,281            625           (2,701)
1982      6,050       3,781              3,281            500           (2,200)
1983      5,830       3,644              3,281            363           (1,837)
1984       5,620      3,513              3,281            232           (1,605)
1985      5,200       3,390              3,281            109           (1,494)
1986      3,580       2,238              3,281             43           (1,451)
1987      1,090         711              3,281         (2,570)          (4,081)
1988        370         231              3,281         (3,050)          (7,031)
1989         -          -                3,281         (3,281)         (10,312)
October 25, 1972






ANNEX 5
Page 1
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF TIE
INTERDI SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Relending Terms for the First Livestock Development Project (516-BR)
Background Information on Inflation
1.        In terms of annual average differences, the rate of price increase
measured by the General Price Index 1/ accelerated from 29.2 percent in 1960/
59 to a peak level of 88.9 percent in 1964/63.  In 1967 the general price
level rose by 28.4 percent compared to the previous year and in 1971 by
20.4 percent compared to 1970.
AVERAGE ANNUAL PRICE LEVEL CHANGES
General       Wholesale      Guanabara Cost       Construction
Year            Price Index      Price Index    of Living Index       Cost Index
1960                 29.2            31.3             29.3               17.4
1961                 37.0            40.5             33.2               43.6
1962                 51.6            50.2             51.5               42.3
1963                 75.4            76.0             70.8               88.3
1964                 88.9            81.3             91.4               82.3
1965                 56.8            53.6             65.9               69.7
1966                 37.9            41.1             41.3               36.6
1967                 28.4            26.7             30.5               41.4
1968                 24.2            22.7             22.3               31.9
1969                 20.8            19.1             22.0                18.0
1970                 19.8            19.3             22.7                16.7
1971                 20.4            21.5             20.2                15.1
Relending Terms Prescribed in 1967
2.        The relending formula originally agreed in 1967 had the following
features:
(a)  Loan duration:  nine to twelve years, including three to
four years of grace for amortization of principal;
1/   A composite index made up of the following sub-indexes:  wholesale price
index (60%), Guanabara cost of living index (30%), and the construction
cost index (10%).



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(b)  Interest rate:  14 percent over the 1ife of the loan,
calculated on oustanding loan principal adjusted;
(c) Rediscount rate changed by Central Bank to participating
banks: 7 percent (equal to the rate of the Bank's loan).
(d) Loan Adjustment:
(i) During grace period - interest calculated on the basis
of unadjusted loan balance 1/;
(ii) During amortization period - both principal repayment
and interest calculated on the basis of adjusted loan
balance;
(iii) Principal and interest payments made annually, on the
anniversary date of loan commitments 2/. Amounts due
would be calculated by applying the current loan
adjustment index to the amounts which would be due had
there been no adjustment. The loan adjustment index
would be related to the producer price index, measured
from the year each loan is made. For the base year,
the producer price index would be 100. The loan adjustment
index would equal the producer price index during the
same year, less the following amounts:
Year 1 - 10;
Year 2 - 20;
Year 3 - 30;
Year 4 and ensuing years - 40.
In no case, however,would the adjusted loan balance
be less than the unadjusted balance during the same
year. This means that the loan adjustment index could
never fall below 100; and
(iv) Amounts derived from adjustment accruing to the
credit of the Government, to take care of the exchange
rish arising out of the Bank loan and to help defray
the cost of technical services.
1/   This implies no loan adjustment during the grace period insofar as debt
service is concerned. For prepayment purposes, loan balances would be
adjusted from year to year, both during and after the grace period.
2/   A participating farmer would normally obtain four separate loans under
the Project, one for each year of farm plan execution. Interest would
be paid on June 30, and December 31, of every year, asis now the general
practice in Brazil.



ANNEX 5
Page. 3
3.        The loan adjustment index would be defined and measured separately
for Central Brazil and Rio Grande do Sul. In the former region, where beef
would be the major output of Project farms, the index would be made up of
fat cattle prices. In the latter region, the index would be composite,
including prices of both beef cattle and wool. Prices would be measured
each year as an average of prices obtaining during the high-supply months.
The Getulio Vargas Foundation, an autonomous economic research agency
of recognized integrity and competence, would be entrusted with sampling,
data collection and publishing the index. The index would be issued annually
in July. It would be used for adjustments of amounts due in the 12-month
period following publication of the index. 1/
Changes in Relending Terms Introduced in May 1970
4.        The above indexing mechanism was expected to yield a real interest
rate of at least 7 percent per annum, provided inflation did not rise above
the 40-50 percent rate. These conditions proved to be unacceptable to
ranchers, particularly in view of the success of the stabilization program
in Brazil, and while they were in effect Lew ranchers agreed to particiDate
in the project.
5.        In view of the lack of interest of ranchers, Government and the
Bank agreed in May 1970 on new interest rate terms. The participating
ranchers were offered a choice of either of the following subloan terms:
(a) the same as in paragraph 2 but with a decrease in the
nominal interest rate from 14 percent to 12 percent;
(b) nominal interest of 6 percent, the principal amount to be
fully indexed, including the grace period, based on
either: (i) the cattle or cattle/wool price index, or
(ii) the changes in the US dollar selling rate of the Banco
do Brasil, S.A. from the one prevailing on the date of the
loan.
Ceiling on Adjustment Index Introduced in June, 1971
6.        In late 1970 and early 1971, following removal of meat price
controls, there occurred a substantial rise in cattle prices. It was
observed that if the trend continued loans subject to adjustment in ac-
cordance with an index of cattle prices could be subject to extremely
large adjustments. The fact that these adjustments would be so much
greater than the widely publicized inflation rates was operating as a
serious disincentive to rancher participation in the Project. A high
percentage of farmers withdrew their loan applications. Consequently,
in June 1971 the Bank and the Government again agreed to modified relending
terms for loans to be committed from that time on. It was agreed that
1/   A linear interpolation would be made after publication of the index to
determine the amounts due during each month of the preceding year. This
would be used to adjust farmer's loan balances in case of partial or
total prepayment of a loan.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
whatever adjustment was made in subloan loan principal would not exceed
the extent of inflation as measured by the general price index for the
period.
Present Relending Terms
7.        A Bank mission that reviewed the Project in March-April 1972
noticed that owing to misunderstanding there were several shortcomings in
the application of the monetary correction formula. Specifically they
found:
(a) that while monetary correction was being applied to
principal during the four-year grace period (with the
excepton of an initial gap, see (b) and (c) below,
interest during the grace period was being calculated
on the original nominal amount of the loan and only after
the end of the grace period calculated on the corrected
amount. This had the effect of reducing the real interest
rate paid by ranchers by one-half to one percent age points
per annum on the average over the life of the loan;
(b) that on loans linked to the foreign exchange rate, monetary
correction was not being charged during the first 12-18
months of the grace period despite the fact that the
arrangements provided that it should be charged from the
beginning. This had the effect of reducing the real
interest rate paid over the life of the loan by about 1.5
percentage points on the average;
(c) that on loans linked to the cattle price index, also the
correction was not applied in the first 12-18 months.
This reduced the average real interest rate by some 2 per-
centage points.
8.        With a view to avoid such mistakes in the future the Banco Central
do Brasil in consultation with the Bank, simplified the relending terms --
from July 1, 1972, prescribing that interest on all new sub-loans would be
7-1/4 percent a year and the loan amount corrected in proportion to the
changes in the US dollar selling rate for Brazilian cruzeiros. Full adjust-
ment of both interest and principal are to occur both during the entire
grace period and later. If at any time the increase in the general price
index should exceed the rise in the US dollar/cruzeiro exchange rate by
more than 7-1/4 percent, the Bank and the borrower will agree on a new
indexing system, and no new subloans will be committed until that new system
has been agreed.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
9.        It is realized that the present system is not perfect and implies
lending to ranchers at subsidized rates of interest. Howqever, most agricul-
tural lending in Brazil takes place at interest rates of up to about 15
percent without monetary correction. The system is sustained only with
strong support of public funds. In this sector the Government made a
beginning in ex post correction with the first livestock loan and the
system has now been made workable. It has been Government's policy to
allow agricultural lending rates to remain below industrial rates, partly
as a compensation for the high prices of agricultural inputs and protection
to the industrial sector. The Bank staff has a continuing dialogue with
the Government about agricultural lending policies and the Government has
been gradually extending the practice of monetary correction.
October 28, 1972






BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE
INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ranch and Farm Development Projlections-
c
II<                                                                  Model I:  Development of a 2,000 ha Beef Breeding and
Fattening Ranch in Rio Grande Do Sul
On-Ranch Investment Projections
Development Phasing
Average Units       Average Unit            -------- Years -------            Average Cost per Ranch
Investment, Category                    Unit       per Ranch             Cost                 1           2          3                              1/
(---------------------------- NCr -------------------------)             (US$)-
F.stablishment (conventional)       ha          300                   384             38,400      38,400       38,400        115,200       19,862
Establishlment (oversowing)         ha          100                   246             24,600          -           -           24,600        4,241
Maintenance and Renovation          ha          500                    85                 -        17,000      25,500         42,500        7,327
Installations:
Corrals                             No.            1/3            24,000               8,000          -           -            8,000        1,380
Scale                               No.            1               6,000               6,000          -           -            6,000        1,034
Dips                                No.            1/4            32,000               8,000          -           -            8,000        1,380
Water Points                        No.            4               5,000              20,000          -           -           20,000        3,450
Fences                              No.           15               3,000              25,000      20,000          -          45,000         6,900
Machinery and Equipment:
Tractors                            No.            1/4            30,000               7,500          -           -            7,500        1,293
Fertilizer                          No.            1               5,000               5,000          -           -           5,000           862
Disc Harrow                         No.            1/2             6,000               3,000          -           -           3,000           517
Mower                               No.            1               4,000               4,000          -           -            4,000          689
Cattle:
Breedingi Heifers                   Bead         32                  600              19,200          -           -          19,200         3,300
Bulls                               ilead        10                3,000              12000        9,000       9,000         30,000         5,173
Sub-Total                                                                                I80 ,,,,0     84,400      72,900        338,000       57,438
Cont LinTICV21                                                                            15,500       6,600        6,100         28,200        4,862
Fotal                               _                                                196,200      91,000      79,000        366,200       62,300
1/  lt'S  = 5.80 NC'r.                                                                                                                                                  a,o
/  Abowit 10  of  invv,stment, except  ;itt le.



ANNEX 5
Ta-bl 2
BRAZIL INTERIH SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT MODEL I RIO GRANDE 00 SUL
2000.0         CHECTARES)
HERD DEVELOPMENT PROJECTION
END OF YEAR
PREsOEVa         1         2        3         4        5        6         7        8         9   10-20
- , ..  .________________________ ...............................................................................................--..-.--
HERD COMPOSITION
BREEDING COWS               590      663       663      663       663      663      663       663      663       663      663
BULLS                        18       20        20       20        20       20       20        20       20        20       20
CALVES                      295      295       365      398       431      464      498       498      498       498      498
9-24 MONTH HEIFERS          143      143       145      179       195      211      228       24A      244       244      244
9-24 MONTH STEERS           143      143       145      179       195      211      228       244      244       244      244
24 36 MONTH MEIFERS         139      100       120      120       135      136      137       137      138       138      138
24-36 MONTH STEERS          139      139       140      142       175      191      207       223      239       239      239
36-48 MONTH STEERS          135      135       136      137      139       172      187       203      219      234       234
FATTENING CULL FEM           70       69        78       98        98      111      111       111      111       111      1I1
........................................................................................
TOTAL NUMBERS              1377     1412      1447     1538     1620      1715     1780     1845      1877     1893      1893
(TOTAL ANIMALS)            1672     1707      1811     1936     2051      2179     2277     2342      2375     2390      2390
........................................................................................
SUB-TOTAL A.U.             1342     1377      1408     1489     1571      1660     1725      1789     1822     1837      1837
PURCHASED STEERS              0       83       202      251      269       180      115        51        0         0        0
TOTAL ANIMAL UNITS         1342     1460      1610     IT40     1840      1840     1840      1840     1822      1837     1837
MORTALITY
BREEDING COWS                18        16       13       13        13       13       13        13       13        13       13
BULLS                         I         I        0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0
WEANERS                       0         9        6        7         8        9         9       10       10        10       10
9 24 MONTH HEIFERS            4         4        3        3         4        4         4        5        5         5        5
9-24 MONTH STEERS             5         4        3        3         4        4         4        5        5         5        5
24436 MONTH HEIFERS           4         4        2        2         2        3         3        3         3        3        3
24O36 MONTH STEERS            4         4        3        3         3        4         4        4        4         5        5
36-48 MONTH STEERS            4        4         3        3         3        3         3        4        4         4        5
FATTENING CULL FEM            2         1        1        1         1        1         1        1         1        1         1
SUB8TOTAL                    42       40        25       24        24       26       29        32       34        36       36
PURCHASEO STEERS              0         0        2        4         5        5         4        2         1        0        0
TOTAL                        42       40        27       28        29       31       33        34       35        36       36
PURCHASES
BREEDING AGE HEIFERS          0       32         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0        0
BULLS                         2         4        3        3         3        3         3        3         3        3        3
SUBTOTAL                     2       36         3        3         3        3         3        3         3        3        3
STEERS                        0       83       202      251      269       180      115        51        0         0        0
TOTAL                         2      118       205      254      272       183      118        53        3         3        3
SALES
BULLS                         2        2         2        2         2        2         2        2        2         2        2
24-36 MONTH HEIFERS
CULL                        *0        7         7        7         7        9        9        10       11        12       12
24 36 MONTH HEIFERS           0       39        20       22        40       55       70        86      101       101      101
36-48 MONTH STEERS          135      131       132      133      135       136      168       184      199       214      229
FATTENING CULL FEN           70       69        68       77        97       97      109       109      109       109      109
........................................................................................
SUBTOTAL                   207      247       229      241      281       299      360       391      422       438      454
PURCHASED STEERS              0         0       81      198      246       263      177       113       50         0        0
TOTAL                       207      247       310      440      527       562      536       504      472       438      454
PRODUCTION DATA
WEANING RATE I           50.00   50.00    55.00    60.00    65.00   70.00    75.00   75.00    75.00    75.00    75.00
ADULT MORTALITY I          3.00     3.00     2.00      2.00     2.00      2.00     2.00     2.00      2.00     2.00      2.00
EXTRACTION RATE X         15.42    15.27    14.94    14.83    15.43    14.84    16.98    17.31    17.93    18.65    19.48
TOT. OUTPUT RATE S    15.42    17.93    16.30    16.20    17.86    18.00    20.86    21.85   23.17    23.85    24.69
COWS/TOTAL HERO X         35.29    38.87    36.62    34.27    32.34    30.44    29.13   28.32    27.94    27,75    27.75
BULL/COW RATIO X           3.00     3.00      3.00     3.00     3.00      3.00     3.00      3.00     3.00      3.00     3.00
COW CULLING RATE X        12.00    12.00    12-00    15.00    15.00    17.00    17.00   I17OO   17.00    17.00    17.00
BULL CULLING RATE X   10.00    10.00    12.00    12.00    12.00    12.00    12.00    12.00    12.00    12.00    12.00
HEIFER CULLING RATE X  5400         5,00      5.00     5.00      5e00     5.00     5.00      5.00     5.00      5.00     5.00
STOCKING RATE H4/A.U.  149         1.37      1.24     1.15      1.09     1.09     1.09      1.09     1.10      1,09     1.09
STOCKING RATE A.Us/HA  0.67         0.73      0.81     0.87     0.92      0.92     0.92      0.92     0.91      0.92     0.92
CARRYING CAP. A.U.         1400     1460      1610     1740      1840     1840      1840     1840     1840      1840     1840



BRAZIL INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT MODEL I RIO GRANDE DO SUL
REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE FROM LIVESTOCK SALES AND PURCHASES
UNIT PRICE                                     N CRUZEIRO
a...    . ..a..a .......  a . ..a.                                  . _ ...a*. .  .-.....a..
PRE.DEV.  20  PREeDEVa            1        2         3        4         5         6        7         8        9   10=20
...........a ...................................a a...............fl..................  S..
REVENUE
a .......
SALE OF CULL
COWS                  580.00  580.00  406000   39991   39434s  44795.  s5994,  55994,   63460.   634604  63460.  634e00   63460.
BULLS                 870.00  870.00    1740.    1519    2036    2036.    2036.    2036.    2036.    2036.    2036.    203o.    2036.
HEIFERS 24'36         370.00  370.00          0.    3708e    3738    3779.    3818.    4722.    515t1   5580    009.   64Ja   64394
...... 0. .........,_ ._...... v_"*_......____ ......................... -.r............ --------------
SUBTOTAL 1                                423404   45218   452084  50610o  61848#  62752e  70647.   7i 06.   71305.    I 934 I 79 A
* *--*a-a es *5    .       .        .        ..s-, S,,fl_s  *  eaaaZs - 1r*SaCo .a<-d  S>4l
SALE OF SURPLUS
HEIFERS 24-36         600.00  600,00          0.  23179.   12095&  12919.   24019#  33158.   42237.   513S5 3         iJ fj    6 d  ?    603944
STEERS 36-48          840.00  840t00 113400  109998.   10 992a S119024  113115.  11428 a   141343  1541 3.  1S 6,!)    # Q. 192?4t
PURCHASED STEERS       840.00  840.00          0.       0O  68011.  1666270 206798* 22i277o 1483384   9493a  4155t                            -
SUBTOTAL 2                               113400. 133177. 191098. 291448. 343992.  36871t6  331918,  300471i 269024a 2 40                253135 
TOTAL REVENUE                            155740. 178395. 236306. 342058. 405840. 431468. 402564. 371547* 340529. 312220.  3250694
EXPENDITURE
PURChASE OF
BREEDABLE HEIFERS  600.00  600.00            0.  18997.         0.        0        0         0.        0.       0.        0        0.        0.
BULLS                3000.00 3000.00    6000,  12562.    8215.    8215.    8215'    8215.    8215.    8215.    8215,    8215S    6215.
STEERS                650.00  650.00         0.  53702.  131569.  163288.  174721. 117128.  74983.   32838.0 .                     0.        0.
TOTAL EXPENDITURE                          6000,   85260. 139784.  171503. 182936.  125343.   83198.   41053.    8215,    8215.    8215.
* aa..aaaa a Sa .naa*a . ........................... . ._... b.. ... a ......... .
INVENTORY VALUE                          781460, 843374. 931974,1075869ll6llO3.1235727.1200890,1185617,l155228 1126752.1126752.



BRAZIL INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT MODEL I RIO GRANDE 00 SUL
INCOME STATEMENT
N CRUZEIRO
s ~~~~~~~~~....................... ...................................... .........................  *_ 
PRE,OEV.          1         2         3        4         5         6         7         8         9    10 20
INCOME
SALE or oUTPUT        155740'  178395,  236306.  342058. 405840.  431468C  402564.  371541.  340529.  312220  3250699
OTHER SOURCES-.             0.       0.   90000,   90000.   90000.   90000.   90000.   900000.   90000    90000.   90000.
TOTAL INCOME           155740.  178395   326306.  432058  495840   521468*  492564  461547    430529.  402220   415069.
OPERATING COSTS 2/
FIXED COSTS
LABOUR                  20000.  20000,  25000'  25000.  25000,  25000.  25000.  25000.  25000.   25000.   25000'
MAINTENANCE            12000.  17500.  20000.  20000a  20000.   !00 0a  20000.   20000.  20000.   20000.  20000.
FUEL                    2500.    4500.    4500.    50000    5000.    5000.    5000.    5000.    5000k    50CO0    5000,
PASTURE MAINTENANC           00.                0.4 0Q    55270,   55270*   55270.   55270.   55270C 55270.   55270.
OTHER EXP                6000.    6000.    6000.    6000.    6000.    6000*    6000.    6000.    6000     6000,    6000.
SEED HARVEST                 0.       0.   10000.   10000.   10000    10000.   10000.   10000,   10000.   10000.   10000,
TOTAL                    40500.   45000    65500a  66000.  127            2120   121270.  121270.  121270. O      21270.  121270.
VARIABLE COSTS
VETERINARY EXPENSE    9394*   10220.  11270.  12180.  12880.  12880.   12880                  128C80    12753.   12862.   12862,
MINERALS                12078.   13140    14490.   15660.   16560.   16560,   16560.   16560*  163946  16537.   16537,
CONTINGENCIES            6797.    7831.   11552.   13267.   16682.   13803.   11695.    9588,    7932,    7944.    7944.
SELLING EXPENSES             0.       0.        0.       O         0.        0.       O        0.        0.        Of        0.
TOTAL                    28269.   31191.   37312   41107.  46122   43243   41135   39028    37081   3r343   37343*
STOCK PURCHASES           6000.  60013. 133212. 164931. 182936. 125343.  83198   41053    8215*    8215i   8215.
TOTAL COSTS             74769w  139204. 236024  272038. 350328. 289856  245604* 201351.  166566.  166828. 166828*
................. ............................................... _*_.,............,......
INCOME                   80971.  39190.  90282. 160020. 145512. 231612, 246961. 260195. 263963*  235392. 248241.
INCOME TAX                   0.       0,        0.        0.        0.        0         0a        0a       0.        0         0 .
NET INCOME               80970.   39190.   90281.  160019.  145511,  231611.  246960.  260195*  263963,  235391.  248240,                                  K
V/ Annual sale of 11 m ton of Lotus seed at 8 NCr,/kg.
2/ The Computer  Program includes in operating costs all cattle purchases even though the purchase of breeding cattle is,
in a strict sense, an investment. The investment tables also treat cattle purchases as investment, but care has been
taken to avoid double counting in the cash flow statement and in the computation of financial returns.



BRAZIL INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT MODEL I RID GRANDE DO SUL
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
N CRUZEIRO
PRE.OEV.            1          2          3          4          5          6          1          V          9         1 0        1 1        1 2         1 3        1 4        1 5        1 6        11 7       IV         149        20
CASH INFLOW.
SALE OF OUTPUT            1 5 51740.  1 7V8395 . 236306.  342058.  405840.  431964,  402564.  3 7 1 597.  390524.  3 12 2 20.  325069.  325069.  325069.- 325069.  325090.  325069,  325009,  325069.  425069.  325069V   325069.
0T4EV  SOURCES                   0 .       0 .   9 0 000 .   94000 0.   9 0 00 0.   9 0 0 00.   9 00 0 0.   9 000 0.   9 00 00.   VO.   9 00 .90 0 00,.   400 00 .   9 0 000.    4 00 0 0.   9 0 0O0 0.    40000,    VO9OOJ .   90c00.   9 000 0.   900000,   9VOOVO, 
DEVELOPMENT  LOAN                0. 1 5172947.   7 2 1172.   6 25172.-      0.         0.         0.         0.          0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.          0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.
OTHER LO4.G/NED.               .0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.          0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         9.          0.         0.         0.         Q .        0 .        0 .        0 .
SHORT  TERM LOAN                0 .        0 .        0 .        0 .        0 .        o .        0 .        0 .         0 .       0 .         0 .        0 ,        0.         0 .        a0.         0,         a*         0          0,         0 .        0.
RANCHERS  CONTRIN.               0 .   3V80 49 .   177 119.   1 53 194.     0 .        0.         0.         0 .         0.         0 .        0 .        0.         0'         0.          0 .        0 .        0 .        0.         0.         0.         0 .
VVL,  FROM PREV. Y 09,0    VV1,. 1 20 4993. 200490. 3 4961982,.4  0197110   65:176.  846900. 1051957, 1273911.1464104.1669V276. 1876638 .2 0a6 19 0   . . . . ...2582671, 2V83 491 3 T3Oi79 1 543327395.3575636. 3823876,
OPERATING  COSTS  7/ 4769.  165951.  292599.  274610.  350326.  249059,  2956049. 20135 1.  199500,  196329,  199979. 169429.  166824.  I6V82R.  1 600 20.   lt 2I ~10660829 10046620.  100920.  196429.  164420,
IN VEST HENT S
OEVELOPMENT  LOAN              0.  13 2000. 6 956 0 0    5 6000            0.0 00.                          0.         0 00.                 0,         0.          0.         0.         0.          1          0.         0.         0.         0.         0.
0EV      .   L OANS5         0.         0.         0           .         0          0.          .         0            .        0            .         0 0  00.                           .         a          0.         0.         0.          .         0.
RANCHERO WEOIT                 0.   330 00.   1 6940 0    140 00.          0.         0.         0.         0.         3,         0.         0.         0.          0.         0.         0.0.                                         0.0
RANCHERS  WITDR RA,LS          *o,          0 .       o.         0.         o.         0.         o.          0,         o.         c,         0.         o          0.         o           0..                   0          0.         0.         0.          0.
TOTAL  CLTFLOW          79A7 6 9.  3 299451  324594.  3 4 6910.  350329.  249459,  245900.  2 01 35 1.  109599. 6          6642.  1   60924  8 .  1 99424  8 .  1 966828-;6924.- 166R2;, 102.  1 99982        66820    10929 16 9424.  069624.  1e66924.   160429.
CASH BALANCE                40411 . 1 2 52 10 . 212 0490,  3961429.   4 91 6903,  105786.  898728. 11 0 709 5. 1321420.1509363.1712345. 1917517.2124791V.2334431, 258?672,20330913. 3C7Q141'.33P7395. 3575636 .3838764,0721! 71.
CUMULATIVE  CASH            409 7 1.  1 2 52 10.2 212 090.  36 1982 4. 4941 6 93. 705146,  R98728. 1 1 0 09 5, 1321420.1509363.1712345. t9l7591.2124879 .2334431 * 2582672.283091, 3 0 79 1 5 43327395.3575636.3423V76.A012l117
DERT SERV ICE 2
I NTEREST
DEVELOPMENT  LOAN              0.     9711 17: I1 6 00.    1564 2. I  15 19.   1 7 51 9   1 53 3 0.   1 3 1940,:   1095 0.    9176 0.:    95170.    4 3980,     2 190.         0.          0.         0,         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.
OTHER L.T.  LOANS              0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.          0.         0.         0.         0.          0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.
PREVIOU   LOANS                0          0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.          0.         0          0.         0.          0           .         0          0.         0.         0.         0.
SHORT  TERM LOAN               0.         0          0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.          0.         0.         0.         3           0.         0.         0.         0.         V.         0.         0.
RE PAYM E NTS
DEVE LoPWENT  LOAN             0.         0.         0.         0.         0.   36 444,9    3 6444.9   36949,9   36 494,    3 6449,9    3 6949,9   396 49.9   3964 99.         0.          0.         0          0.         0.         0.         0.         O
OTHER  L.T, LOAN S             0          0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.          0.         0.         0          0.          0.         0.         0.         0.         0          0.          0.
PREVIOU S  LOA NS             .0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.          0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         O00    0.  O0                                0    0.          0.   0
SHORT  TERM LOAN               0                0.   0.         0          0.         V.         0.         0.         0.         0.          0.         0.         0.         0.          0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.          0.
TOTAL                          0.    4111 17 I1 6 0 0.   1 56 42.,  1175 19.   5 4 016.-  5 14824.   496 3 9,   4174 49 .   452 59 .   4 30 694.    904179.   3 6669999        0.          0'         0.         0.         0,         0,         0.          0.
909711 *120443, 200490, 346182. 9719119 651764. V46900.1057457.12134711.1464104,1669276.1476638.2086190.2344431 , 258200729180913.3079154,3327395.3575636.3823876.4071?117.
1_3  Certin of the figure  -nti   aeoyd   o   orsodi   hs'i   aL   .Teeigrsf'    sa   ycsi                                                  i   vso tiniss-t"g-y d. -tn chic .th5- 4.                Lch-t i5 r--u.s  vi'It-]     si c theosscni   b--n
by tl,s c--hes
2/  Cash flows ha,e bee  expressd in rea  teem, that s,iftonhsbee   ssa,d    a    Conssqssls_ debt srice   oe  escoscuLa   h  hssof "c.is   rsicc.                                                              OpvsoIO.   eg_t.r.. debt s-rIce-h
bore sopuced o  01, rel interst rote  whirlsoveesroe   somehat the rea  isisre-t r-ts paid by sub-borroers    7-1/4~ .ssi-l  -t-r-ts Iat, Id 1.sstd Osthc ic  sI Lill C -cgt  -oh-ngI ihue,  -i ths short-cer
deb,   -'otill at  0, (e -rePo-ding to en a-tua1 057..noia  taent inTdesed).  Otherie,i  wudsaihe-r,csoc   seIticss -ld                                           fi  ltosad  o-i''v..t.bt  sctan   sts   rie-. Tnstoldbs
copliard               ..55550ily the  niss
N--ebet 24, 1902             -



BRAZIL INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT MODEL I RIO GRANDE 00 SUL
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
(XIOOO)N CRUZEIRO
TOTAL       OPERATING            NET        INCREMENTAL NET  DEVELOPMENT         INCREMENTAL
YEAR            INCOME          COSTS            INCOME           INCOME          INVESTMENT    NET CASH FLO*
.___ ..      . .   . . . .... . . .. .. _.______ .......                                             ........... __._.. ... ......... -- - - - -.,._
0          155-740           74-769 -0,970                      0o0o0             oooo-             0.-00
I.          W8 395          164.451           13.943          -67a027          -165.000          232s027
2            63 6.SA        2?41s596          83.709             2.739           82.000           7 9.261
A         2 evt  2^6 1 0   1 3 4 4 7           2 44477 7       7 *r00.0          2.477
4          ^"r@,'           '  .328          145 511           64.541            -0.000           64.541
5                           ),85             231.611           150.641            000 0          150.641
6          492              - 5   ^4         246.960           165.990           -00 00          165.990
7          461.547          ?C01.251         260,1 9           I79a225           -0a000          179.225
a          430.529          166 566          26 .9 63          182993             0,000          182.993
9          402.220          166s428          235&391           154.421           *0o000          154.421
to          415.069          166a828          245*240           167s270           -o0ooo          167.270
11          415.069          166.828          248.240           167.270           -0.000          167*270
1?          415i069          166*828          248,240           167,270           -0000           167.270
13          415.069          166.828          248.240           167s270            0e000          167.270
14          415a069          166,828          248&240           167.270           -0.000          167.270
15          415.069          1664828          245.240          167*270            10.000          167,270
16          415s069          166i828          248.240          167.270            -0000           167s270
17          415.069          166,828          248.240           167.27O           0o0ooo          167.27O
18          415i069          166,828          248,240           167.270            0.000          167.270
19          4154069          166.828          248.240           167s270           -0.000          167.270
20          4154069          166.828          248t240           167.270           -0.000          512.562
TRE RETURN TO THE RANCHER IS  29.1 PERCENT



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE
INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ranch and Farm Development Projections
Model II:  Development of a 500 ha Beef/Wheat Farm in Rio Grande Do Sul
On-Ranch Investment Projection
Development Phasing
Average Units      Average Unit            ------- Years --------             Average Cost per Ranch
Investment Category                    Unit        per Ranch            Cost                1           2          3                                I/
(-------------------------------NCr---------------------------)   (US$)-
Pasture Development:
Establishment                      ha           120                 384              15,360      15,360      15,360        46,080       7,945
Consolidation and Renovation        ha          120                  85                 -         3,400       6,800        10,200        1,758
installations:
Fencing                             km            7               3,000               7,000       7,000       7,000        21,000        3,620
Corral Repairing                    No.           1               4,000               4,000         -           -           4,000          690
Machinery and Equipment:
Tractor 44 HP                       No.           0.5            25,000              12,500         -           -           12,500       2,155
Plough 3 Discs                      No.           0.5             3,000               1,500         -           -            1,500         258
Mower                               No.           0.5             2,300               1,150         -            -           1,150         198
Fertilizer and Seeder               No.           0.5             2,500               1,250         -           -            1,250         215
Disc Harrow                         No.           0.5             3,000               1,500         -           -            1,500         258
Cattle:
Breeding Heifers                    Head         50                 600              30,000         -           -          30,000        5,172
Bulls                               Head          4               3,000               6,000       3,000       3,000         12,000       2,068
Sub-Total                                                                                80,260      28,760       32,160       141,180      24,337
Contingency-/                                                                              3,740       3,240       2,840         9,820       1,663
Total                                                                               84,000      32,000       35,000       151,000      26,000                _ 
1/  1US$ = 5.80 NCr.
2/ About 107. of Investments except cattle.



ANNEX 6
Table I
44A91- .NIE1M sECON,  l- VESIJOl PROJJECT  MuDLL 2 RIOi  G9ANOE ui  SUL
5'0tJ.u          01'ILIA4FS)
H1RU 3LVELUr"4tI fRAJJLC0ILN
LNO uF YLAR
'NL.0lEo             I                     3          4          5                      1                           10-22
HERO) C39r0SiTlIN
AHEElINli  COWS6                 1/         Ith 0       124 O       Ito       114        leO0        1  lu      iA(        1 6        I 3u        142
9ALL S                              A                     5           5                                                                             t, 5.
CALVES                            40          La         VA       .I5J4       115        1 22       1 3         196       1I           I15        13 5
4-24  435NT, HEEIRo                249        2 9        249        4e         53          5 6        IS0        66         616         S          6 6
9-24  MJNTH STiCkS                 249        26         2 Q        4. d         3            6       nO         66                     4          466
2 4- 39  9051 MNIlHErS             4 h5  '   24         2 9        2e 6y42               J31        .5          31         .5          3          34
24636 90N1H SitFL H               2,?6         0         2 4        2e         41 7        62         toJS                  t. oS       eS         uS6
36-4A 435)H Si Et S                 7          ua         o         2 n        24          4 6        5,1        2 4        51          o          6 4
F A T T F I .0G  LOLL  tE          1 I I2     1 4        2 1        2 6        2 6         29Y        3           LI 3u     J5          Ja         2 L
ToTAI  N.s4S21                               240t k~   ,    h  31    346 (    426        4462       4 (4L       444        S)ubt      ' 514       5 14
CTCI'.   ANiMALS)                331         P4U       014         494        543        544        4613        633        443        huu        450(
4>4-T,   L 4.0.                 21         23          304        33         4184                  ai3         u9   3     :Y         uv           ,
ToTAL   051 'Al  EN,ie~~- -   21 -    213--       330       4/u        50          S uE       -ioU       So         Su          4,         9o
MlI?,ALAI Y
A R FEEXI     IrS                   4          4          4:                     4          J5         4          14                    44
Bu1,6                               I          u                                 u          0                     a           J          QC
W E A NEnS                          0          2          1                2          2           2                1                     a3
9':2 4   ONTri [EIILPS              1          1I                                                                                          
24-3   951419 rSlNIIS              I                                                                                                      
36RCoAS, UN I  EtHS>                4          0                                            2          12                                  
TOTAL                              10          0          5                      1)          A         9           9          9
404LHrASE S
S9EFVINU .GL rEIFLRS                0         50          0          a           0          4          4                      J         Id          0
HulltS                              1          2          1           1          1          1          1           11                    1           1
SuR-ILTA1e                          1I2                               1          1                     1111I
SIFF PS                             0          L         22         41         4'         .53         31         1            1          u          0
TbTAj                               1         6 2        2 J        44         446        5 4         340        14m          4          1          1
9ULl S                              1          u           1                     1          1          1           I          1                      1
CALVES
LEFAN                              0           A          0          0          .1         0           4          0          2          0 
924   lb       TER
I FAN                              0        26           0                     V           0)         U          J          0           a          2
26-36 MONTH HrTFlrS
COLL                               0          1                1                1                     J .        3           3          J          3
24:36 MUNTH HLIlLoS                 4          0           0          u          3         10         14         21         21I         21         21
24-36 MONTH SlEiRs
LEANj                              0        21           0          4          0           5          0          a          0           4          0
3644~'MNUNib  SISLPS              01          246         0          V         2 3        2'6         45         50u        53 J        56         6 2
FATTENING  CULL  1F4               12         1 2        14         21         2 6         2 6        24          u         32u         32         30J
So4-TuTeL4 4                                  49         16         23         5            I1        45        1,         13         11          123
P2RC94A54E  SlEtns.                 u          a          0          22        -i1          3          2         36          11          1          0
TOTAL                              u2         4          16          5         o         14          191        140        130        124         12
WEANTING  RATE;               50:au    50.uo         05, U      60.0U    63.20         1U.4U    15.U0        15.02j    15.uu    15.uu    15.02j
AOIJIT MLRTALII   0             3 .2 0    3.00        2.0   2      .0O        2.00  2.    00       2.00 0  2.UU 2uU       2.20       2.uU       2.20
EXTRAcTIOiN  RAIl              1.176      36  39      5.15        0.12      14.52U     12.14      16.44        7 138    11.5        16.23    19.44
TOT.u iiPUl  RAIL ;           14.16       36.33'      5. 15      012       13e.45      I`5.vI     20u.ID3    21I.54    2 3.u 2    2 3 .43      2 4.6 9
CuwS/III~IAL  I-END 4X         35.61    52.41        43O.24     35~.13      34.J2      3u.49    29 .nu       d4.~4d    26 .u3    21 .1`5    271.15
Jl) /0IC0U, 4411A I    6L       3.UO      ,3:LO       I 3.Uo2     3.:U02    13:u0       3.00U    13:Ou        3.uU        3.5       13.:.       13.u0
CON  rbILI NG  RATLE;          12.20      12.60      12u00      10.                     T o12.20  11.00  11.0  1.u      1.2           1 uU    11.20
ROJLLC0ULL INu  NHA Il         I10.2      10,uu      12 UvO     I 1.00     14.UU    12:UU    12:00           12:010    12:aU        12:04      1 2.440
KHEFF   CIJLLIN,  rOj A     4I  5.20D      5,IGu      5.00        SIIOu      5.2        3.00 U     5.22       5.21)       5.00       5.00       5.00
STOCKING  rATE  HA/A.3J.   1.45            1.93        1.52       1.19       1.40       1.00       I.oo(       1.0 0      1.0        1.00       1.4
510041        I nATE    .1I,/lA   0.5 4  0.5 5                                                                           I.6 04  .0 10  .0 10  .00  1.o 1.0
CARRYINS  CAP. V.a.              2(0)       220         330        4Ov        542        500         500        52         500        542         400U
May 107, 1972



ANNEX 6
Table 9
BFRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE
INTrEIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOMENT PROJECT
Model II: Development of a 500 ha Beef/Wheat Farm in Rio Grande Do Sul
Frojection of Crop Production
Before
Develop_  ----------------------- Year ----------------------------
ment           1          2          3          4          5        6-20
CROPPIN., PATTERN
(ha )
Wheat                    120            90         60         3(
Wheat/Lotus                             30         30         30         30         30
Lotus  1 year                                      30         30         30
2                                                     30         30         30
3  "                                                             30         30
L                                                                           30
Total                120          120        120        120        120        120
YIELD
(K,r/ha)
Wheat                    850           8o 5r0                R0
Wheat on Lotus                       1200       12'0        1.00       1200       1600
Lotus Seed                              80         SC        80          80         80
PRODUCTION
(m ton)
Lotus Seed                -              2.4        2.4        2.4        2.4        2.4         2.L
Wheat                    102            76.5       51         25.5        -          -
Wheat on Lotus                          36         36         36         36         48           -
EXPENSES
(Ncr)
Wheat1/                42000        33600       23100      12600      10500      10500       10500
Lotus!                              13400      13400      13400      13000       13400       13MOO
Total              42000        470CO      365000    26000       23900      23900        23900
GROSS REVENUE
(Ncr)
Wheat                               19200      19200       19200      19200      19200       19200
Lotus (Ncr8/kg)        51000        56000      44000      31000      18000       24000       24000
Total              51000        75200      63200      5,0200     37200      43200        43200
NET REVENUE
(Ncr)
Cropping                9000        28200      26700       20200      13300      19300       19300
1/  The cost of inmlantation of wheat is estirated at Ncr350/ha.  During years 1 through
3, part of the wheat would be planted in ccnsociation with lotus and consequently
land preparation is included in the investment cost.
2/  The cost of land preparation is imputed to wheat since they are planted together.  In
addition, there are the following costs: seed 8 kg/ha/Ncrl2; fertilizer Ncrl4o/ha;
others  NcrlO/ha; seed harvesting Ncr200/hq.
July 11, 1972



HiAz1L INTE1IM SELONO ltIVESTUCK PROJELT MUOLL 2 RIO GRANDE UU SUL
REVENUE ANO EXeENOITURL FROM LIVESTOCK SALLS ANU PURCHCALS
                    ~~~~~~~~~~~UNII 1eR I CE                        NUVU CRUZEI K
PRf .LOEV.  20  PRE.DEV.          1        2         3        4         5        6         7        8         9   10-20
REVENuE
SALE UF CULL
CUWS                  580(.0   580.00    6960.   6bS6o   802L.  12035.  151855   14890.  16623.  1(244,  17244.  17244.  17244.
BULLS                 070.uO    870.00      l70.     338.     54t.    552,       541.      533.     553.    553#    5$3s    553,          553.
HETtEKS 24'36         37 0.U0  370.00         0.    747.      75d 8.    76V.     776.    1269.    1397.    1434o   1574.    1750    17S0O
SUHTUTAL  1                                1830.    7940.    9326.  13356.   1650 J   16692.   18573.   19282a  19371.   19547   19547.
SALF UW  SUIRPLlU
HE IPE6S 24-36        60G.00  600.00          0.      .O         U.       o.   3003.    8950.   10791a   12700,  i6411.  16411,  16411.
STFERS  9-24          460.00   460.00        U0  12940.          0.        O 0O.              s        Us       U.        (!.      O.
STFERS 24-36          59.U0O  590.00         0U  16024U 0.                0.        U        0.        0.                  0.      0         0
STFERS 36-44          840.JU  840.00   22680.   22000o           U        0.   1969U.  23244.  37976.  41815.  44420.   47172.  5237i.
PURCHASE L STEERS      840.JO 8040.00          0.       UO        UO  18522.  39077.   698165.  43302.   30600   14160.    5830f              0.
SIjHTUTAl 2                               2268U.  50964.          U.  18522.   61769.  10207W.  92069.  85114.  14991.  693 6:    68767.
TOTAL REVENUE                             30510.   58904.    93267  3186    8    78272.  118770.  110642.  1U4396*  943634   88911   88334.
ExPENDI 1UIK
PURCHASE Of
BRELOANLE HLIERS  600.00  600.00            O  3(U0000.         b       0.        U.       U         U.       Us        0.       U.        0.
HULLS                3000.00 3000.00    3000.    5565.    2357.   1914.    1947.   2737.    223 2            2232.    2232.    223?.    22332
STELRS                650.00  650.00          0.      .U  14625a  30655.   551fi.   34192.   241616   11181,    46093               0.       0.
TOTAL EXeENDITURL                          30O0.  35565.  16862.  32768*  57120.  36928.  26394.  1341 J    6835a   2232.   2232.
INVFNTORY VALUL                          158450. 161705. 103544* 2433571  2b8834. 343273. 326416t 32467?. 31498bi  312012* 3n61e36               
0



BRALZL LNrERIM SEUONO'LIVESTOCK PROJECT MUOEL 2 RIO GRANDE 00 SUL
INCOME STATEMENT
NUVU CRUZEIN
._.,..,,,,,,....._..._.............................. ................................
'RL.0Ev.         1        2         3        4         5        6         t        o         9   10-20
INCOME
SALE UF DUTPU1        30510.  58904.    9326.   3187o.   78272* 118770. 110642.  104396*  94363.  88911.  08334.
OTHER SUURCES         51000 .   75200.   63200.   50200.   37200.   43200.  43200.   43200.  43200.   4320o.  4'3200.
TnTAL INCOME           61510. 134104.   72576   8207.  115472. 161970  153842  147596  137563.  132111.  13153'
OPERATING cuStS
FIXED CuSTs
LARDUR                 13000.   13000.   13000*  13000.   13000.   13UO0    13000.  13000.   1300U    13000.   13000.
MAINTFNANCt             450U.   S000.    6000.   600Q.    6DU0.   6000.    6000.    600V.    6000.    6000.    6000.
FUEL                     40U.   1400.    1400.    150t)    1500.    1500*   1500.    1500.   1500.    150.u   1500.
PAST. MAINIENAiCE           0         .        0        L.    17000.   17V00 17000.   1000.   17000.  7I0Uoo    1700Q.  17000.
OTHEH EXe    2/         4000.        0 .       U        '.      U0         0.       U.        0        J.        0.       0.
CROP EXPENS. 2'        42000.  4'7000.   36500.  260000.   2390U.  23900.   23900.   23900.  23900.   23900.   23900.
................ ........................................... ____......................... _ _
TOTAL                   63900,   66400.   56900.  46500.   61400.   61400.  61400.   61400.  6140U.   o14'00    61400.
VARIABLE COSTs
VETFRINARY EAP.         1897.    1909.    2310.   294J.    3500.    3500.    3500.    3500.   3500.    3495.    34S5.
SALT AND MINFRALS    2439.   2454.    7970o   37 8.    4500.    4500.    4500.    4500.    4500.    4494'   4494..
CONTINGE CIES           7124..   5316.    3958.    4299.    6326.    5316.    4790.    4141. .   3812.    3581.    3581.
SELtING tXPENSLS            U.       0.        O.       0.       Us        Of       U.        0.       u.        u.      .U
TOTAL                   11460.    9680.    9238.    11019.   1432Q6  13316,   12790.   12141.   113812.   1157o   11570o
STOCK PURCHASES          3000,    7113.   15096.  31238.   57128.  36928.   26394.   13413.    6835.    2232.    2232.
............... ........................................ ,__............... ...... ... _  _..._.____..............__.__.
TOTAL COSTS            78360.  83193.   81234.   8875r. 13255S. 111645. 100584.  86954.  80047.   75202.  75202.
._._._..,............................................................_   .j...._.
INCOML                   3150.  50911.  -8709.  -6679. -17383.  50326.  53259.  60642.  57516.  5690V.   56332*
INCOME TAX                  U.       0,        0.       0.       lJ.       0                  0 O.      U.       V.        U. 
NET INCUME               315u.   50911.   -8708.  -6678. -17382.  50325.   53256.  60647.   57516.   56904*  56331 .
1/ Gross Revenue Table 3.
2/ Expenses Table 3.



Bk AZ IL IN Tf I 4 SE DND I I vE SI OCK PROJECT UOLL 2 R IO GRANUL UO SUL
CASH FLUW S(AIEMLNT
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - ;- - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Uv-snE - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
E . 0Ev.                                      3            4            5           6            1            b                        1 u         I I          1 2          1 6           1 4          1 5          1 6          1 7          1 0          1 9          2U
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I - - - - - - I - - - - - - - I - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
CASH  I N L UW
SALF UF  ILJ 1 PUT              3C510: ,8904              9 3 2 6    31b7b:   / 6 2 7 2        I 8 7 7 0   I I 06a42    loa396       9 4 3 6 3    bb9,t 1:   b63034:   d8334             8 8 3 1 4 :   883304 :    bB 303,: 6833            dM23 14 : 883 3U- :   d8  3-U :   d -14 :   6 8 3 1 4
L)THFN(JUR L' E b              Ioou        ( 5 20 a      3  0 0     5 0 20 0     372OU        4320o        4 3 2  0    432U.        4320L        4 3 2 ,U     4 3 2  0     4 3 2 0     4 3 2 00     4 3 7 0      L3 2U         4 1 2 f)    43           42C'o.   43,0'.   41-'jj.   432ou
DEV FLL) IMINI  LIJAN                u.   6A 852.   25,86            2 7 1 3 1 .        u.           0                                      u           u.           u            0            0.           0.            u.                        u                                      u
,,L        'M  0.                                                                                             11           U                                                                                                                                                                        1:
IITH                                  u            u            u           U            u            0                                      U:                       0.           u            u            D.                         u            U.           U:                        v
'I' '                                                                         U                                                  U            UU
SHU       IE11  LUA,                  U.                        U           U                         0            U.           U                                                                                                                    U:           U            U            U:           1:
RAI rE 11 CUNfRIH                           1129' .      6 I 7        6 7 0 6 .                                  0,                                                                                                      U.           L                         U            U            U
HAL      ku                                                                                           I                                                                                         0:  '03850'
FRt V.   R.                   3 1 5.   5 7 7 4        4 4 6 5  .   31 48.       7 4 2      3 5 7 I Y.   67bq        IOb2l        1,64i       1 6 4 8 6 4   2 2 3 6 3   P6329 I              P,.  16014?.  416514:                 415 19117    ,d5lU9 .  64lbII:-6y6I'J:
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 2- - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - I - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - -- I - - - - - - - -  - - I - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - 9- - - - - - -  ----  --------  . . . . . . . . . - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - -
iNfL-                  I u     1 9 3 9 7 .  1 6 1 5 1 5 .  1 6 2 5 6 f..  14742U....                                                                                                                                             - - - - - ---     li
1(I I AL                                                                                   16)39; . 169,61.  ?15iV .  2.O;- -1 C522-  31 6390 .  3551 6; .  39487                             4'153h;    4;7                         6'31U   66Ut             7 I  1 4     7 7 3 3 7       9
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I - - I - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
CASH  W) iFL LI W
I'I        L I I I I        b i 6 0    I 1 6 4 5 .   317U. 9029b.  132b5.  11145 - I U 0 5 5 4 -   86q54                     6 0 0 4 7    1102,         5 2 0 2    7 5 2 0 2    7 5 2 r,     I 9 2 0 2     (5M                       5 2 r, ?    7 5 2 0 2       2 02          0 2     75WO?.
INVFIT
V I UP MNI LUAr,                 U      384OU:   2323U:   256OU:                    U            U:           U:           U            U            U:                       j            0:           0                          U            6                         U            U
L       I ,                                                                        U            U           U            0            U            U            U                                                   I                                                                             I :
OTIER  L ., OAN                                 U            U            U                                                                                         U            0           U.           ?             L            U.           U.           U.           U.                        U
RAICHLHSIGli I I                            6(          '5 d 0.      6 4 0            U            U            U            U            C,           U            U           U            0            U             U            U                         U            U                         U
R             , I     NY              U            0           U            U            U                                      U                        U            U            U                                                                 U            j                         U            U
-----------------  -------  ---------------------------------------  -------   ------  -------  -------   ......
5                        4            7                                                                                                                            5 2 0 2     r52o?.   7520?.
Tn t AL  !'U] t L Jl          8 3 6 0.1 5 9 6 4 5 .  ) I I I I U .  1?229d .  1 3 2 b 5 t, .  I 1 1 0 4  I  I 0 0 5 8 4 -   869   8OU4         7 5 2 0 2    7520;.   7 5 2 02 .   7 5 2 1) 2      7 -, 20 P        2 0 ?     f5202 .   7 5 2 C2'       72 0 2 .
CASH O A L A N L                  31SU.   9792 .   4 9 4 1 5, 1627b.   1 4 5 6 5 .   5 1 7 4 1 .   6897b.  I P848t   16576U   2 0 J i n                      ?4 1 1 96 . ?79965 .  3 1 9 6 9 7 .  3OtB2    41 6 5 1 4        4IP846 . W9 1 77   5,85511V -  6 4 1 5 4 1 .  698 " 73   7'.14504
CUMtl[ A T I V L CA,h              315       ,979?         9 4 1      3b27--   1465.   5 7 1 4             68916.  I , 8 4 8 5    1 6 5 7 6 0   2o33?U. 24 1 1 9 . P7996,              1 9 6 9 7 .  3 6 0 1 6 2 .    I 1 4., I 2 6 A 6 .  $2  I 77.S8550.  6 1 4 1 .  6 9 d 1 7 3   754J4.
DE 81 SL,V LCL
7 , 7T -,' 7 - - -
DFVt LUP"FN F LuA                   U                                                           7 1 4 4     651 :       535b         465         357:        2 6 7 9 :    1 7 8         89J
'L                               ,       ?oo6:        4 7 6 4 :    6J3U:        ?144 :                                                                                        6                                                    U
OT RI  T:C)LOANS                                U.           U.           U.          U.           U.           U.           U.           U.           U.           U.          0             0           0.                         U            U            uu           U            'O           U
RE,  L.,                        -U.            U            U           1)           U            U            Q            U            U           U            U            U                         0                                       U                         U .                       U .
n RI            I '                                                                 V.                                                                                                                                             U           U                                                   U .
S H T  TtRM  LOAN                   -            U            U            U                        U            U            U            U            U            U           U            J.           0                                                    0            U.
REPAYMLNfS
TE VJUfl.LNT  LIAN                 1.           U.           U            U.           U.   1 4 6 8 4 .   1     I      1 464 .   1.681 .   14M64.   1 4 6 8 1 .   I 48P4 .   14884.                      1                                                                                           Q:
'L                                                                                                            U            U.           U.          Q            U.           0.                                                                             UU           U :          I
0 T  V R OL ; T,. JL 0 A N          U.           L            U            U           U            U.                                                                                                                   LI :                      U                                      0            V
PRF  I             NS             -U.            0                         U           k)           0            U.           GI.          U.           0.           U.                                                                                                      U:           U:           U:
tj                                                                                                                                                                      U                                                                "I          'U
5 H T  TLMM  L                      U.                        U                                                  U .                                                              O.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - U- - - - - - -  - - - - - - - U- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - U- - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - U                                                          - - - - - - - -  - - U - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - U
TUTIL                               U .     7006.        4 7 5 4 -    6j3U.        t I  4 .   22U?         I 1 3 5 .   ?O?Q .   I Y 3 4 Y -   I d 4 51                          O:         77.                           -- - - - - - - - I- - - - - - - -                              U .          Z
------------------------------------------------------------  --------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------  -----------------
StSH.AAK(  AI              J E  I S L ! V I L E
.. . ........
'   31;U.   177.   lll . 3IV46.                    7 4 1 1 -   3571 9,   1 7 d 4 3 ,  1 ,6?44,  1641 1 .  104664. 22.3633, 763295.  303651).  36nI82.  4! 651-    477M,6. -191 f(. StI5509.  641 541 -  698173. 754bj4.
th fig.-     i. thi -t-9-lY d. U.t ---p-d t. th-                            i,  ['bl 4    V,-      fig.-      gi-    L-CII 11P- lilg          Uh-.-   th-            il Thl 4 i-l,d -1, th.L P.,Lj", "f Lhe - t f b- di.g lltn   hih i b.-
b, th. -h-
N-.b., 24, 1972



BRALIL INTERIMA SECONn LIVEST0CK PROJECT MODEL 2 RIO GRANOE 00 SUL
FINANCIAL RATE of REIJRN
(XIOOO)NUVO CRJZEIR
___.... -___,_........................... _.,....................._ _....-_._.-._................................._,... ___............... ._
IOIA        UPERATING           NET        INCREMENTAL NET  DEVELOpMENT         INCREMENTAL
YEAR            INCUM9         cusTs            INCOME          I1COME           lNvESTMENT    NET CASH FLOw
0           81.510           78.360            3.150            U000             0.000            0000
I          134.104          111 645          22.459           lt309          -48v000           '28.691
2           t2.5?6           93.1?0          -106594         -13.744            29.000          '42.744
3           82.0?8           90.288            8.209          11.359           j2.000           43.359
4          115.412          132.555         -17,352          '20.532             0.000           20o532
5          161.9'0          111.645           506325           4tI7.5            000 0           41.175
6          153.842          100.584           53.258           50.108            0.000           50.108
7          147.596           86.954           60.642           51T492            0.000           57.492
8          137.563           80.047           57.518           54,366           -0.000           54.366
9          132.111           75.202           56.906           53.758           -00O             5307S0
10          131.534           756202           56.331           53a161           IO.ooo           53a11
11          131.534           75.202           56.331           534181            0.000           53.181
12          131,534           75.202           56,331           53.181           -0.000           53.161
13          131.534           75.202           56.331           53.181            O.o000          53.161
14          131.534           75.202           566331           53.181           -0.000           53.161
15          131.534           75.202           56.331           53.1a1           -0.000           53.181
16          131.534           75.202           56.331           53.181 000 0                     53.181
17          141.534           75.202           56.331           53.181           -00o00           53.181
18          131.534           75.202           56.331           53.181           -U.OOO           530181
19          191.534           75.202           5Sa331           53.181 .o000                     53.1a1
20          131.534           75.202           56*331           53.181            04000          200.914
THE RETURN TO THE RANCHLR IS 25.9 PERCENT
3>4
01



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE
INTER fM SECOND .IVESTOCK DEVELPMNT PROJECT
canch and Farr;. Development Projections
Model _iI:  Develooment of 2000 h  Beef BreeJir.g
n  Fa!tenln Ranch in Parana and Sao Paulo
On-RRax.rh Investment Projections
Average Units      Average 'Jnit          --------- Y;-Yars-              Average Cost per Ranch
Investment Category                    Unit      perRach              Cost               1           _
( NCr --- -  ------)-                                              US)-
Pasture Development:
Establishment                      ha           600               300             60,000      60,000     60,000        180,000      31,034
Renovation                         ha           600                60             12,000      12,000      12,000         36,000      6,206
Installations:
Fencing                            km            15             2,000             10,000      10,000      10,000       30,000        5,172
Scale                              No.            0.25         12,000              3,000         -           -           3,000          517
Water Points                       No.            2             5,000             10,000         -           -          10,000        1,724
Corrals                            No.            1            20,000             20,000         -           -         20,000        3,448
Shed                               No.            1             5,000              5,000         -           -          5,000           862
Houses                             No.            1             6,000              6,000         -           -          6,000         1,034
Machinery and Equipment:
Tractor                            No.            0.5          30,000             15,000         -           -          15,000        2,586
Cattle:
Breeding Heifers                   Head         220               600            132,000         -           -        132,000        22,758
Bulls                              Head          15             3,000             27,000       9,000       9,000       45,000         7,758
Sub-Total                                                                            300,000      91,000      91,000       482,000       83,099
Contingency-/                                                                         14,000       8,000       8,000        30,000        5,201
Total                                                                            314,000      99,000      99,000       512,000       88,300
1/  lUS$ = 5.80 NCr.
2/ About 10% of investments except cattle.



ANNEX 6
Table 15
B4RAZIL [NTLRIHI SECOND LIVESTOICK PROJECT MOUEL 3 PAHqANA SAN PA3LO
2000.0            (HECTARES)
4HLRUJ OEVELOIPMENT PROJECTION
END nF YFAR
PRli.UEV.           1          2          3          4          1          6                    8           9        10     I    12 0
.                                 ..... ....                  ...                                 .........                                .........                                 ........                             
HERO COMPOSITION
BREEnING CnlhS                   320       589        607        61?        602        VD0        710        710        710        710        710        710
8ULLS                             10         18         18         18         18        210        21         21         21         21         ?I         21
CALVES                          208         160        324       364        398        421        502        533        533        533        533        533
9-2A MONTH  HF lEERS             I0          U      0   78m     I157        1178       195        706f       2 46       261        2 61       ?61        26 1
9-29  mnNTH STFERS               1oo         :3          8       15'        178        195        IU6        ;~46       261        261        261        261
24-36 MONTH HEIPF,,S              96          9         97         7U,      1 54       1715       i1         23 ?2      2 41       256        256        2 56
24 -3A M 0 N IH S T FE RS         96                    97         TO       154        1 75       1 91       2U2        241        2156       2 56       256
36-8A MONTH  STEFMS               92         7          93        a          74        151        111        16         198        236        251        251
FATTFNING  CULl  FFM              32           Ii       57                    ( ?       7 1        93        10t4       1U4        13o4       1 04       1 04
TOTA, NUMHFPS                   3'46      1 1 21     1 1 24       If r     14 31)     1 65 1     1 79 6     1 9 20     20 38      2 14f6     2 1 21     2120
(1OTAL  ANIMAtS)               t05,4      128i       1948       i6?4       1828       2072      2298       2452        2571      2638       2653        2653
SUP,TOTAL  A.1'.                846       Ii2l       1124      1U80        1430       1651       1796       1420       2038       213j6      2120       2120
PURCHASEr' S,TFFS                 - U        1 9      1 76       300        3 90       369        3 24       200         8 2          00                    0
TO0T AL  A N I -A L 0115 T      346       1 14 0     1 30 0     1596 0     1820       20(20      2 12 0     2 12 0     2 12 0     2 10o6     2 12 0     2120
M IVT AL ITT
RREEOING Cnw4S                     "4        13         IC         18         1 2       1 2         1 3       1 4        1 4        1 4         1 4        1 4
RULLS                              4                                I           0         0          0          0          0          0          0          0
WEANFRS                            0          I          5         10          7          8          8        10          II         it         11         11
9-24 mnNTH HFIFE9S                 4          4          3          2          3          4          4          '4         5          5          5          5
9-24  mONTH  STFERS~               4          4                     2          3          4          4          4          5          5          5          5
24-36  M0ITH HFEIEEFS              4          4          3          3          2          3          3          4          4          5          5 
24-36  m0',THSTEFRS                4i         4           1         3          2          3          3          4          4          5          5          5
36-0  MONTHSTEERS                  A          4          3          3          2          1          3          3         4           4         5           5
FATTENING  TOlt FFM                4                                2          I          I          1          2          2          2          2          2
SUB-TOTAL                         3 2        3 3         4         3 4       2 5        2 8        3 3        3 5        3 8        4 0        4 2        4 2
PURCHASED  STEERS                  0          0          1          5          6          8          7          6          4          2          00
TOTAl                             3 2        3 3        3 4        3 9       3 1         3 6       '40        4 2        492        4 2        4 2         '42
PURCHASES
BREEDING  AGE HEIFLRS              0       220           0          1          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
RO UL LS                           3          9          3          3          2          5          5          '4         4          '4         1
SUB-TnTAL                          3        22 9         31         3          2          5          5          4          4          4          4          4
STEERS                             0         1 9      1 76       30 0       3390       3 69       3 24       200        t62           0          0          0
TOTAL                              3       248        178        103        392        374        328        204         65           4          4          4
SALES
BULLS                              3          I          2          2          2          2          3          3          3          3                     3
36-48  MONTH  HFIFFHS             .0          0          0          0          0          0         1 9       el9        60        1 18       1 32       1 32
36-4A MONfTH  STEERS              9 2       a88         89         90        9 2         7 2      1 48      I168        1863       1 94       232        2 46
FATTENING  CUll  FFM              32         31         30         55         69         71         69        96        102        102        102        102
S0R-TOT AL                       127       220        1 21       1 48       1 63       1 45       239        3 36       3 69       4 17       469        483
PURCHASET  STEERS                 -0          0         19        170       294        362        362        317        196          80          0          0
TOTAL                            12 7      120        139        31 8       458a       5 27       601        654        565        497        469        483
PRODUCTIOIN DATA
WEANING. RATE 5               5(1.00    S0.00    55.0          60.30    65.00    70.00    75.10    75.00             750        7.0        7.0        7.0
ADULT MORTALITY  1             '4.00      4.00       3.00       3.00       2.00       2.00       2.uO       2.(J0      2.00       2.00       2.00       2.00
EXTRACTTPN  RATES%            15.01    10.71    10.75    11.74    11.43               8.78    12.31        14.12    14.37        14.51    16.21    16.87
TOT. OUTPUiT RATE S           1 5.01I     10 .71    10.75    11 . 74    11 . 43       8 . 78    1 3 .31    1 7 . 21    18.08    1 9 .82    22.13    2 2 .79
COWS/TOTAL  HERO  'T          3 0 .36    4 5 .96    4 1 .92    3 7.869    3 2 .91    3 2 .32    3 0 .90    28.96    2 7.-62    26.92    2 6 .77    26.77
SULLICnw 4ATTO %               0.00       3 .0 0     3.00       3 . 00     3.0)0      3 . 00     3 .0 0     3.00       3.-00      3.00       3.00       3.00
COW  CULLING  RATE %           o.Uo0     10.00    10.00    12.00    12.00    12.00    15.u0                15.00      15.00    15.00        15.00      15.00
BULL CUILLING  RATE  %    10.00    10.20    10.00              12.00    12.00        12.00      15.00    15.0.1    15.00    15.00    15.00             15.00
STn1CKING RATE  HA/A.)).   2.36           1.75       1.54       1.28       1,10       0.99       0.94       0.94       0.44       0.95       0.94       0.99
STOCKING  RATE  A.11./33A   0.142         0.57       0.65       0.18       0.91       1.01       1.U6       1.06       1.06       !.05       1.06       1.06
CARRYING CAP. A.tI.              860      114 0      1 30U0     1 5860     1820       2 0 20     2120       2 12 0     2120       2120       2 120      2120
July 28, 3972



HRAZII. INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT mnUEL 3 PARANA SAN PA9LO
REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE FROM LIVESTOCK SALES AND PURCHASES
UNIT PRICE                                         N CRUZFIRO
PRE&OEVs  2D   PRE.UEV.              1         2          3         4         5          6         7          8         9        10    11-20
< PRE^DEV ~~~~~................................................................................................. 0PEOVI234567  911'0
REVENUE
SALF OF CULL
COWS                    580.00   58o0oo   18560.   17818.   17283.   32123.   40160,   40914.   40215.   55952.   59337.   59337.   59337.   59337.
BULLS                   870.00   870.00    2610.         835*    1490.    1844.    1879.          1847.    2569.    2725.    2725.    2725.    2725.    2725.
SUBTOTAL  1                                   21170.   18653.   18773.   33967.   42039,   42760.   42784.   58676.   62062.   62062.   62062,   62062.
---_---__---_--_.--_.-----_-_--_-----------------------------.-__----.-------__----------_._____
SALF nf SURPLUS
HETFERS  36-48          600.00   600.00           0.        0.        0.         0.                  0. O     11426.   41178.   47753.   70651.   79231,   79231.
STEERS  36-48           d40*00   840.00   77280.   74189.   75092.   75874.   77331.   60725.  124i40* 141090.  154125.  163146.  194561.  206334.
PURCHASFI) STFERS        840.00   840.00           0.        0.   15596.  143144.  247275.  320971.  303798.  266634.  164864*   67214.                    0.        0O
SUBTOTAL 2                                    77280.   74189.   90688.  219018.  324606.  381696.  439364.  448902.  366742- 301010.  273792.  285565.
____................_____._.__.________................. _......................................_.___.................________..... ._.  
TOTAL REVENUE                                 98450.   92842.  109461.  252985.  366645.  424456.  482148.  507518.  428804.  363072.  335854.  347627.
____.______,_.............................................................____..............._______________________
EXPENDOTTJRF
PURCHASE OF
BREEnA8LE HEIFFS   600.00   600U0              O  132000.          0,         0U 0.                o,        0.        0     o 0.           0,         0.        0,
BULLS                  2500U00  2500.0o       7500.   22548.    6984.    7045.    5532.   1131U.   11426.    8895.    8895.     6895.    8895.    8895,
STFERS                  650.00   650.00           0.   12442.  114192.  195249. 253439.  239880.  210535. 130177.   53072.                     0.        0.         0,
... ....__._........... _........___........ ____......__________________._...............................................................................__
TOTAL FXPEN0TTURk.                             7500. 166990.  121176.  202294. 258972. 251190.  221961.  139072.   61967.    8895.    8895.    8895. -3
INVENTORY VALUE                             485220.  653053.  694391.  881856,1076746.1297361.1368750.1398602,13662261317998.1262797.1262797.  m o



P2tII( INTERIM SECOND LIVESTllCS PROJECT MOUEL 3 PAHANA SAN PARL.0
N                                           INCOME STATFMFNT
N CHUZEIRn
PRE*DFV.         I        2        3        4        5        6        7        8        9        10   11-20
INCOmE
SALE OF nUTPl)T      9fl45 U   92842. 109461. 252985* 366645* 424456. 482148. 507578. 426804* 363072. 335854.  347627,
nTHFR SnURCFS           "0       0.       0O        0.       0.       0.       0.       0.       0.  O     .       0.        0.
TOTAL iNcnmF          98450.  92842. 109461. 252985. 366645. 424456. 462148, 507578. 428804. 363072a 335854. 347627.
OPERATTNG COSTS
FIXEr) COSTS
LABnOURR.             I6oou.o  16000.  16000.  23000.  23000.  23000.  23000.  2300(1.  23000.  23000.  23000.  23000.
MAINTENANCF.-        1400u.  160(00.  180uo.  18000.  18000.  18000o   1800u.  1800U.  18000.  18000.   18000.   180000,
FUFL + nIL            400u.   6000.    7000.   7000.   7000.    700o.   7000.    7000.    7000.    7000.    7000.    70CO0
PASTURE IWATNITENs         U.       0.      u.        O.  21600.  21600U   21600.  21600.   21600o  21600.  21600*  21600.
OTHR EFYP              6000.       0.       0.        0.       0.       0.       0.       0.       0.       0o        o.      0.
ToTAL                  40000.  3800o.  410o00   48000.  69600.  69600.  69600.  69600.                           669600.   69600,
VARIABLE LnSTS
VFTFR. FXPfNSES        5922*   7980o.   9100.   10920.  12740.  14140.  14840.   14840.   14840.  14740.   14840.   14840.
SALT + 'ITNERALS      761'4.  10260.  11700.   14040.  16380.   181H8.   19080.   19080.  190f8l.  18951.   19080.  19080.
CONTINGFNCIFS          6104.   11161.    9149.   13763.  17885.  176554  16274.   12130U    8274.    5609.    5621.    5621.
SELLING EXPFNSFS          0.       O.        0        0n.      o.       0.       o,       o.        .        0o.     0.        0.
TOTAL                  19640.  29401.  29949.   38723.  47005.  49975.  50194.  46050.  42194*  39300.   395416  39541.
STOCK PURCHASFS         750U.  43351. 115588. 196658. 258972, 251190. 221961. 139072.   619617    8895.    8895.    8895.
____._____,_. ......................................................... ____............___...__._.___..................................__._._,,
TOTAL COSTS           67140. 1t0753. 186537. ?83381. 375576. 370765. 341755* 254721.  173761. 117795. 118035. 118035.
------_------_---_-----------_-------.------_-_----------_---__-----------_--__------.----------
INCOME                 3131J.  17911. -77U76. '30395S  -8931.  53691. 140393, 2528571  255043. 245277. 217819. 229591.
INCnME TAX               0U.       0.       O         0.       0.       0.       0.       Us       0.       0.        O.      0O             z
NET INCOME             31310. -17911. -77076. -30395.  -8931,  53690. 140393. 252856. 255042. 245276. 217818. 229591.                          CY
-J



HRAZIL INTEHR1 SECOND LIVESTUCK PROJECT MOUEL 3 PARANA SAN PARLO
CASH FLUW STATEMENT
N CRUZFIR)
PRE0tv,             1         2          3          4          5         6          7          H          A        10         I1         12         13        I          I1         16         I          I          18        20
CASH INAL!SA
SALF OF 0(IIITPUT         98450.  94242   109461. 252H45.  366645. 424456. 482140. 50758. 428804. 363072.  335854. 347627.  347627. 347627, 337627.  3476?7,  347627. 3476?7. 347647. 347627. 347627.
OtHER  SOURCFS                -            0                               0.         0.        0. 9.  0o.                       0.         0.        0.         0.         A           . o                  .          .  0      0.
DEHELOPHENT  LfAN               0. ??4 3H.   lISA?.   77636.               3.         o.        0,         0.         o.         0.         0.                                                                                    I.         0 .        0. 
OTHFR  LONG/ED.                 .          0.                                                              0.         0.         0.         0         0          0.         0,          .          .          .         .         0          0           .
SHORT  TFRO   LnAN               .         0.   6244.  1 1 3557.  146660.  I67499.   9R614,                ii.        0.         0.        0.         0.         o.         0                    0. 0o                 0.         o.         o.         0.
RANCHERS CONTRIA.               0.   55724.   1911?.   19127.              3.         0.        0.         0.         o.         0.         0.        0.         0.         A          0.         0.         5.        0.         0          o          A.
aAL.  FROf  PREV   YR.               31310,   30698             0.         o.         0.        o          0.   ns7s7.  275334.  458167.  616564,  766755.  96596?:. f. ..  U:1425144. 1604741.14843A2.2113994,2343515.2573106.
_-------   -----   ---- _   .................................... ..........2---  . . . . . . . . . .. . ..... .  ______  . 4  7             
TOTAL  INFLnw           00,50.  4275168  249310,  463306. 513305. 591955. 5A0762. 7               s57d!  .  514560. 638406. 794021. 96419;.11373A1.1313594.1543185.1?72776.2232J6O.2231A,9.246i550.2691642.2A20733'
CASH  ouTFLnw
OPERATING  cnSTS !        67140. 234391 . 192124. ?49017. 37s576.  370765. 341755. ?5461 . 173761.  117795. 119035. 114035. 168035,  118035.    118035. 11003s. 11035,  118035,  118035. 61lo35. 118035.
INVFSTMFNTS
DEVELOPMENT  LOAN             0.: 124000.   72000.   7200o.              0.         0.         o.         U     .         o.   0.         0.         0.         0,        Qo          .         0.          .         0o.        0.         0.         0.
OTHER  1.7. LOANS             1s         0.         0,         0,        o.         0.         0.         0.         0.        0.         0.         6.         0.         o.        o.         o.         0.         o.        .0         0           0.
RANCHERS  POlITTe             3.   31000.   18000.   1400o.               3.        0.         0.         0.         0.        o.         o.         0.         0.         A         L.         u.         0.         o.         o.         0.         0.
RANCHERS  WITHDRA:ALS    1/                0.        0,         0.         3.         0.        o.         0.         0.         0.         0.        0,         0.         6          o.         0,        0         0.         0.         0.         0.
TOTAL  OLITELOfN        67140.  3 839 3.  282124. 37901 7. 375576.  370765. 3 4 1 75               54721. I73761.  117795. 1 1               14035   148035. 1 18035. 118035.  116035.  11003 5   114035,  611035,  114035. 118035. 118035.
CASH  BALANCE               3131U.   34127.   17116.  44240. 137729. 22119u. 23900?. 252457.  340799. 520611. 675946.   46155.1019346 .11A5558.1425',49.164741s.1s84332.2113924.2343s5s1.25731062RO2698.
CUMULATIVE  CASH            31310.   38127.   55313. 13960?. 277331 . 498521 . 737520. 2o2525.  i40799. 5206 11. 675986. 846155.1019346. 1195558.142514 .IG49 s16 l4741 .ie4332.2013424.2343)15.2573106.2802696.
DEST SERVICF
INTEREST
DEVELOPMFNT  LOAN              jI    74?9.   17146,   21843.   24172,   24172.   21150.   10129.   15107.   12096.    9064.    6043.                        3021.          A.        0.         0.         0.         0          0.         o.         0.
OTHER I .T. LOS               0.         O.         0.         0.        0,         0.         o,         o,         o         0.         0.         0,         0.         0.         U.        0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         o.
PREAV0US  LOANS              0.         U.         0.         o.        0.         0.         0.         0.         0.        0.         0.         0.         0.         A         o.         0.         0.         0.         0.         0.         o.
SHORT TERM L04h               o.         0.         0.         o.        0.                    U          U.         0. 0-                0                       .        0, 0.  A.  1         o.         0.         0.         o.         0.         0.
REPAYRENTS
DEVELOPMENT  LOAN             0.                    0          0 n.      0.   503 5.   50305.   50356.    503568    503 50           50358.   50358.   50354.              A.         o.        0.         0.         0.         0.         0.          .
OTHERL.T. LOANS               Q.         0          0.         0.        0.         0.         U.         U.         o.         o            0o                 0.         0         o          O          0          0          0          0          0
PREVIOUS  LnANS               ().        U          0.         0.        0.         0.         0.          .         0                    0          0.         0.          .          .        0 .        0.         0.         0.         0.         0 .
SHnRT  TFRP  LOA'             0.         o.         0.  62447. 113557.  146660,  167644.   464.                      0.        0.         0.         0.         0.         A.        0.         0.         u.         o.         0.         o.         o.
TOTAL                         0.    7424,   17146    842R99,  137779. 221190. 739007. 10710u.   5546s.   62444.   59422.   56401.   53374.                                 A.        0          U.         0.         n      .   0.                    0.
CASH A  ALANCF AFTFR lFdT  S4ERVICE
3U1s1    30691.           U.         0.         0.        0.         O.   H5757. 275334.  455107. 616564.  789755.  965967.1195558,142514Y,16547411 l84332.2113924 .2343515.2573106.2Ro2AVA.
1/  Certain of the figures in this category do not correspond to those in Thble 4.  These figures give total operating CstfS whereas those is Table 4 include only that portion of the cost of breeding sattle which is borne
by the rancher.
November 24, 1972



RPA7IL INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT MODEL 3 PARANA SAN PARLO
'FO                                             FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
(Xl0OO)N CRUIEIRO
TnTAL       OPERATING           NET        INCREMENTAL NET  DEVELOPMENT        INCREMENTAL
YEAR           INCUME          COSTS            INCOME           INCOME         INVESTMENT   NET CASH FLOW
0           98.450           67.140          31*310            0.000           -0.oo0O           0.000
1           92.842         234.391         -141.549          172s859          155.000         -327s859
2          109.461          192.174         -82.663         -113.973          -90.000         -203.973
3          252.9b5         289s017          -36.031          -67.341          -90.000         -157.341
4          366.645          375.576          -8.931           40.241            06000          -40U241
5          424.456          370.765          53.690           22.380           -0.000           22.380
6          482.1'48         341.755         140.393          109*083            0.000          109.083
7          507.9t8         254.721          252*856          2216546            06oOu          221.546
8          42e.8U4          173.761         255*042          223*732           -0.000          223.732
9          363.072          117.795         245.216          2136966            0.000          213.966
10          335.854          118.035         217.818          186.508           -0.000          186.508
11          347 h27          118.035         229.591          198.281            0.000          198.281
12          347.627          118.035         229.591          198*281           0O000           198.281
13          347.627          118.035         229*591          198.281            00OU0          198*281
14          347.627          118.035         229.591          198.281            0.0u          198*281
15          347.627          118.015         229*591          198.281            0.000          198.281
16          347.627          118&035         229.591          19 8281 0I000                     198.281
17          347.627          118.035         229.591          198a281            0(10.0         19a.281
18          347.627          1164035         229.591          198.2dl            0.000          198.281
19          347.627          118.035         229.59t          198*281           0O000           198.281
20          347.627          118.035         229.591          198.28f            O.OUO          975.858
THE RETIJRN Tn THF RANCHER IS 16.0 PERCENT
P >
m x



BRAZII.
APPRAISAL OF THE
INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
C.,                                                                     Ranch and Farm Development Projections
c
Model IV: Development of a 8500 ha Beef Breeding and
Fattening Ranch in the Pantanal ( Mato Grosso)
On-Ranch Investment Projections
r.1
Development Phasing
Average Units     Average Unit           -- --Years-                     Average Cost per Ranch
Investment Category                   Unit       per Ranch           Cost               1          2         3                             I/
(----------------NCr)------------                                US$)2
Pasture Development:
Establishment                     ha            200               300           30,000     30,000        -          60,000       10,344
Renovation                        ha            400                60           12,000     12,000         -         24,000       4,137
Installations:
Fencing                           km             30             2,000           20,000     20,000      20,000       60,000       10,344
Water Points                      No.             5             5,000           10,000     10,000       5,000       25,000        4,310
Corrals                           No.             1            20,000           20,000        -           -         20,000        3,448
Houses                            No.             2             6,000              -       12,000         -         12,000        2,069
Shed                              No.             1             5,000            5,000        -           -          5,000          862
Cattle:
Breeding Heifers                  Head          250               500          125,000        -           -        125,000       21,500
Bulls                              Head          22             2,500           45,000        -        10,000       55,000        9,500
Sub-Total                                                                           267,000     84,000      35,000      386,000       66,514
Contingency 2/                                                                        9,700      8,300       2,500       20,500        3,486
Total                                                                           276,700     92,300      37,500      406,500       70,000
1/ 1US$ = 5.80 NCr.
2/ About 10%o of investments except cattle.
31



ANNEX 6
Table 21
HPW3 I lrTER 1   SIC UNIO  -TVEST3C', PQGJECT NOUEL  4 P A,TANAL
ki500.o           (HECTARES)
HERU L)F6F) (1P9ENT PROJECTION
INn nF YEAR
("E.UFv.  1          2          ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~~3  4  5  6  78  9    13-20
H980 CnmP9(SITIUN
RRFErTN~G  C''N                  903       11 13       1113       'I  111    I 1113      11 13      11 13      11 13       11 13      111I3      11 13
RULLS                             547          )6        4 8         435       '4          4 5         45t        4 5        4 5         4 54 
CALVFS                            103        360        331        537         612        668        724         774        724        72LI        7?4
9-24   fT, H t-VI~FPo,            113        16,9       171        240         267        294        321         34         347        34T         381'
9-24 -l61N   ST f, )              I  ub      169        I Il       940         267       ?2' 4        321        3 47       3 1.7      3 4 1       34 7
? 4 -3 8    C'r  ,~      -,)   ~  1          1U 3      1 80       1 A0        231        2 57       2,4?        3U8        3.313      3313        3 33
24-3A Mt,,' I   S~TF)6P't         1 6         6(       1061       1 64          3 1      23?        282b        306        3 33       3 33        33 3
36-44     140 1", '~7FF)"5        11)        13 0       15t?       1 94        I s8       222    2 ?4 6         2 (1I       296        320         3;20
FATTFMT1N.   Cill L ~ v-'          90         6 i1      106         1 28       1?2R       1350        13         4016      1 60        1 60       160
TOT AL I3 NU'   fl3                        2o 7 2      2 1 u i    2 286      2 4 40     2 6 30      2 73       24 ?99     2,975       3030       3 00 0
(TnTAL  A' i-p~l,  12                      24.19      7602        24122      3052        3298       34313      36,23       3699       3094       3724
SUB-TO)TA        I*               4 All.               2131       2266       2440        2630       2 iY       29i99       2Q15       30o0       30(1(
PURCHA')F~T F6 0 PS                           3         3 29        3864       3 40       3 70       2 41        131           0          (10
TOT AL  304 1 T    L  T o       1 4..5       13 0      7430       76 10      2 7 30      3000       303 J0     31130      2975        3303       30'))'
TmURTALITY
BREFt)C I ~ G                       6         3~ 4                   43         45 45                                                               45
AULIS                               6           3          3          2           2          2          2          2           2          2           2
NEANPRS                                       22'i        18         20         22         74          77         79         29          99         29
9-24  40Nl'  HF IF F P              6         10(          8          7         1 0         11         1 2        I 3         1 4        1 4        1 4
9-24  MHNfr, SITFlL                 6         1 0          8          7         1 0         11         1 2        1 3         1 i        1 4        IA
24-34  MCI'T-' 6F IFFr,             6         10           8          7           7          9         10         11          12         13         13
24-36 VfJ1iH    TFFPs               6         10           8          6           7          9         13         11          12         13         13
36-44   0H-  RITFFwb                6          9           8          6          6           6          9         l0         11          12         13
FATTFN 1NI,C i    FF                6           5                     9           5          5          6          6           6          6           6
SU8-TOTAI--- 48 -- 1-                                   10--T4       44         91         98        Io 11                   16         11         120
PURCHASEi SIF15                     0                      3         13         15          14         13         1(1          4          0           C
TOTAL                              Ud11                 17     97               ls        11         13          170        120         119        120
PURCHASES
TMMATUPE.  ~FTFFS                  -0         la          19         16          0           0          0          3           0          0           0
RRBEFTNG  131~ H1F,A'S             _3        2U2           0          0           0          a          0           0          0          0           0
BULLS                               I         14P          0          4           7          8          8           8          a          8i          8
SUB-TOTAL                           1        229          19        210           7          8          8          8           8          8           8
STFE4S                              U         38        329        3 64        3 40       3)0        941         101           0          0I
TOTAL                               I        2 6~7      3 48        345        3 41       3 78       9 48        109           8          91          6
SALES
RULLS                               t)          4          5          9           5          4          6           6          6          6           6
36-4A MONrIH H).IFFNS               0          0           3          0          0         2 7         52         66         91I        115        11 5
36-4A M05TH  STEERS.              15U        1 41       1 43       1 88        148        1351       21 3        936(       260         9 t4       3 07
FATTFNTNr, CotI L FEN              90         835        81 0       1 0?       1 2 3      1 26        1 44         4 4      134         1 414      1354
SUB-TOTAL                         ?"          30        29           3 276                30          14         6341                    3          8
PURCHASIO) STFI RS                  0           0         55        3 16       3 50       3727        3335       9 31         47           0          0
TOTAL                            23          2 30       284i       96          62         63j7                    8          0           s          8
P4OULICTI(NI 0A18
WEANINGi  HATE V               4U.UU    40.00    4.0              0.00       9.00 0    6 0.-00    6 5.1)1     639.3U0    6 5.1 0    65 .00      65.00
ADULT MOPIALITY                 6.uO        6.00      53.00       4.00lo     4.100       4.001       4:00      6.1U1      14.10       4.00       4.00
FXTRACT1ol, RATE     V         1.2?8      11 . 09    10u. 88     11.1  1II1.33    10.1  1 3.23                13.48      14.8    14.99          137 
TOT.  0hITP.T  PAT)  3.  13.28  11.09  10.88    11~~~~~~~~~~.1 6  11. 33  11.71   15.32       15.81      17.17      38.64    19.43
COWS/TnTAL  HFRn               40.0?    43.1 8    4 2 . 8    3 9 .89        36 .44 9   33.76       31.96      310.13      30.10    I29.90       2 9.9 0
U L L'/c n4    A T1 I   1      5 . o0      5.00       4.00       4.00       4.00        4.0 0      4.Ui        4.O0       4.O        4.0 0       6.(0
COW  CuL0  ~.0, HATF  1       10.,o       10 .30     10.00      12 . o        12.00    14 .00     14.uO      1.0) 15.0oI)0          1 5.o      135.00i
BULL CJLl 16(  )J; ATr          (j  0 1.0  0.1)0      I  1.00     12 .0n0   12.00       14 .00     14.o.I0U 15.30              15.00 13,,       15.00
STOCKING  HATF HA/A.1).   '(.b              3.99       3.50       3.23       3.06        2.83       2.83       2.3         2.86       2.83        2.83
STO1CKING  -ATF  9../                 . 22  0 .23       0.2 9     U0.3 1     0 .3 3      0.35       0.35       ('.3        0 3. 35    0.3 5       0.3 5
CARRYING  LOP'.  8.)).          "I(1 0     213 0       2 4 30     2 630      2 740       3030       303u)       30w        30U0       3000        3(1(11
July 28, 1972



8RAZIl  INTERIM SECONn LIVESTOCK PROJECT MOUEL 4 PANTANAL
e
hFVFNlJF ANO EXPENDITURE FROM LIVESTOCK SALES AND PURCHASES
UNII PRICE                                    N CRUZFIRO
PRE.OEV.  20  PRE.UEV.           1        2         3        4        5         6        7         8        9   10-20
REVENUF
SALF OF CULL
COwS                 550U0O   550.00  49500,  46530.   44204.  55845.   67720.  67720.   79007.   79007.  e4650.  84650.   84650,
PULLS                ti40o00  640.00    4200.    3553.    4442.   4606.   4309.    5028.    5028.    5387.   5387.    5387.    5387.
SUBTOTAL 1                               53700.  50083*  48646*  60451*  72079.   72748.   84034.  84393.   90037.   90037.   90037.
SALE OF SLJRPI US
HETFFRS 36-4M         6Oo.oo  600.O0         0.       0.       O.       O.        0.  16477.   31252a  39614.  54390.  69165.   69165.
STFERS 36'48         77u0o.   t70400 115500U  108570.  ilOO110    112218  I114066 116493. 1638.8B  182031. 200234* 218438. 236641.
PURCHASFL, STEVRS      170.00  17,o ()0       U.        .  42321, 243011. 269391. 251428. 2(t489* 177860.  74329.                O        0.
SUB8TOTAL 2                             11S500. 108570.  152338. 355229.  383457. 384398. eiU570  399505  328954. 287603.  305806
I_   _   _  _   _  _   _   _  _ 5____         ._c0_    _____523__          ___3_    ___9_     __83
TOTAL RFVFNtIF                          169200  158693, 200984  415681. 455486. 457146. 52604.  483899  418990,  377639. 395842.
EXPENOTTURF
PURCHASE nF
IMMATURE HFIFERS        0oU    -0,o          . Oa     no 0o 0.                    U.       Os       0.        Of       0.        0. 0O
BRFEDABLF Hf TFFhS  500.00  500.00           0, 100773.        0.        0.       0.       0.        0.       0.       0.       O        0.
BULLS               2500.00 2500.00  17500,  43993.            Os  10813.  1727Y.  19411.   19417.  20486.  20486.   20486.  20486,
STTfRS               580.00  580.00          O.  33556* 190675. 211372. 197279. 214588. 139554*  58321.               .0.        O.      O0
_._......._._.___._.........................................._.,_.........__._......__............__._____.__._._._____-._
TOTAL EYPFNOITIJlt                       11500. 178322. 190675. 222185. 214558. 234005.  158971*  78807*  20486.   20486.   204864    3 >
INVENTORY VALUE                        1019100U1160506.1262499,1539431,1656511.1751365.1844139.1825102.1768237,1712869,1712869.   NO'



BRAZIl  INTERIM SECOND LIVFSTOCK PROJECT MOuEL 4 PANTANAI.
INCOME STATEMENT
N CRXJZFIRO
...._. ..... ...... .....       .....    .. _.. ._ _ _ ....   ................_._      ..._  .._.._ _...
I RE0,EV.         1         2         3         4         S         6         7         8         9    10-20
TNCOME
SAIE OF nt)TPUT       169200U  158653. 200984.  415681. A455496. 457146.  552604* 483899. 418990.  377639.  395842.
nTHFR SOURCES               0.        O.         .        0o        0.        U.        uO.       U.        o.        0.        O.
........................................................................................
TOTAL  irvLnMF         1692u0 . 158653. 200t984. 415681.  455426. 457146.  552604.  463699.  416990.  377639.  395842.
OPFRATING COSTS
...... ............ __ ......_
FIxEO CnSTS
LA80nJR                 1900u.  190oo.   1 9000 .   25000.   25000.   25000.   25000.   2500U.  250OU0   25000.   25000.
MAINTENANCF               70oo.   10000.   12000.   1300n.   13000.   13000.  13000.  13000.   1 30 00.   130(10.   13000.
FURL LUPRCNT              7oo.    A000.   10000.   10 0 0    11000.   110O0.   11000.   11000    11000.   11000. 1a 000.
PASTR MATNT               1500.        0.         O.       0.   6000.    6000,    600o.    6000.    6000.    6000.    6000.
OTHER EYX                 7000.        0         0   0.         0     . a      U.        0a        U a0                0.        0.
____________._____-_------_---__-_-.---__---__-_----___----_----___-_----__-___---_--___
TOTAL                     41500.   37000 .  4100 0.   490(00   5500(0*  55000.   55000.   5500o.   55000.   55000.   55000.
VARIABLE COSTS
VET EYPFNSES            12915.   14910.  17010.   18410.   19460.   2100(1.  2100U.  21000.  2087 6               21000.   21000.
SALT MItHAt            16605      19170.  21870.   23670.   25020.   270u.   27100.   2700no    26778.   2'00()   27000.
CONTINGFPjCTFS            8892.   1247(.   13528.  15663.   15702.   1685 0.   13099.    900               1        61. 6195.    6174.    6174.
SELLING F(PFNSFS             0         O.       0.        O.        O.        0.        0.        0.        0.        0.        0.
TOTAL                     3H3t72.   46550.   52408.   57743.   60182.   64850.   61099.   57090.   53761.   54174.   54174.
STOCK PUMCHASES           17!)51u.   62509. 190675.  713535.  214558.  234005.  158971.   78807.   20486.   20486.   20486.
TOTAL CoSTS             97372. 146059. 264O02* 320278.  329740.  353866. 27507u.  19089t.  129246.  129660. 129660.
INCOME                    7182H.  125Q4.  -83098.   99402.  125747.  103290,  277534.  2930(2. 269744.  247979. 266183.                                 >
INCnMF TAX                   0         0.        0.        0.        0.        0.        0.        O.U0.U0.                      0.                  , x
NET INCOMF                716b2.   12595. -83096.   95401.  125746.  103?90.  277534.  293001. 26Q744- 247979,  2 6618?. 2 6



ANNEx 6
Table 24
* OS  '.00000.-I   CS        00000500I0                                 000           000          50
* .    a'.                                                                   0 . .   ..   
'0.0000'                    00050~ ~~ I.    .0.0..0.)..                           .
t                           cZ~~~~S-0 0 



B4AlE  INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK rROJECT MODEL 4 PANTANAL
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
(X1000)N CRUZFIRO
TrrTAt      oPERATING           NET        INCREMENTAL NET  DEVEL0PMENT        INCREMFNTAL
YEAR           INCUMF          COSTS            INCnMF          INCOME          INVESTMENT   NFT CASH FLOW
0          169.?00           97.372          716828            0.000           'UOO.O            0.000
1          15?.653         261.872         -103.218         -175.046        -106.700         -281.746
2          ?00.9b4         284.082          -83.098         -154.926          -92t300         -241.226
3          4 1 5 4S.661    328.929           86.751           14.923          -27.59O          -12.577
4          4s's5A86        329.740          125*746           53.918           '0.000           953.918
S          497.146          353.856         103.290           31.462           -.00o0           31.462
6          5S2 .604        275.070          277.934          205.706           'O.nuo          205.706
7          4M3.PY9         190.89t          293.001          221.173           -0000u          221.173
h          418.Q90          129.246         289.744          217.916           "o.OuO          211.916
9          377.649          199.660         747.979          176.151           -O.000          176.151
10          395.442         129.660          266.182          194.354           -0.000          194.354
11          395.842          129.660         266.182          194.354           -0.000          194.3 54
12          395.R4?          129.660         266.182          194.354           -O.OU(          194.354
13          399.44?          129.660         266.182          194.354           -0.000          194.394
14          395 8?4          129.66(0        266182          194A354           -0. 000         1943594
15          3Q95.4?          129.660         266.182          194.354           -0.()000        194.354
16          395.R4?          129.660         266.18?          194.354           -0.000          194.394
17          395.R42          129.66 0        266.182          194.354           O0.OUO          194.394
18          395,H4?          1?9.660         266.182          194.354           "0.00(          194.394
19          395.,44          129.660         266.18?          194.354           'O.0(U          194.3S4
20          395,842          129.660         266.182          194.354           'O.0OU          888.123
o X
THE RETURN Tn THF RANLHLR IS  20.7 PERCENT                                                                                             t C-



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE
INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ranch and Farm Development Projections
Model V:  Development of a 5,700 ha Beef Breeding
and Fattening Ranch in Planalto (Mato Grosso)
-                                                                              On-Ranch Investment Projections
Development Phasing
Average Units      Average Unit                     Years-------         Average Cost per Ranch
Investment Category                   Unit       per Ranch            Cost                1          2         3                           1/
(----------------------------- NCr -----------------------)    (US$)-
Pasture Development:
Establishment                     ha          500                 300             60,000      60,000      30,000        150,000      25,862
Renovation                         ha         500                   60            12,000      12,000       6,000         30,000       5,172
Installations:
Fencing                           km           20               2,000             15,000      10,000      15,000         40,000       6,900
Water Points                       No.          4               7,000              14,000      7,000       7,000         28,000       4,827
Corrals                           No.           1              25,000              25,000         -          -           25,000       4,310
Houses                            No.           1               6,000              6,000         -           -            6,000       1,034
Shed                              No.           1               5,000              5,000         -           -            5,000         862
Machinery and Equipment:
Tractor                           No.         1/3              40,000              13,000        -           -           13,000       2,241
Disc Harrow                       No.         1/3               6,000              2,000         -           -            2,000         344
Cattle:
Breeding Heifers                  Head        200                 600            120,000         -           -          120,000      20,690
Bulls                             Head         17               2,500             37,500         -         5,000         42,500       8,362
Sub-Total                                                                            309,500      89,000      63,ooo        46i,500      80,605
Contingencyi/                                                                         22,500        9,000      7,000         38,500       5,395
Total                                                                            332,000      98,000      70,000        500,000      86,000
v i
1/  IUS$ = 5.80 NCr.
2/  About 10% of Investments except cattle.



c'4n,Znc'c'-.4mr           4  *Vfl  'didi                 Zn     -I  414444  ZnZn     -4  V414  'i.,i.3N4.O-OZnzDX     -a  PU'  -.--4  'i.,-u-oocc',,
1              Zn -4--CCCOCZnOPI            C   CC   ZnO.O.                 C       0   -SC   Ct        0   CC   CO'S 55  iflC  Zn         C   CC   -SC      0 t r 5 5 SCX
tOCr-Znrr-.4--4Zn          -4  ZnZn  .455                   r-     -4  -'is  C-',       -.  tIt   -455 sr,N,Znr'T         -4  AiZn  lfl-i  -dies S.Jn4irr.,
Znc'4ir-  ran.Zr-z          Zn  475  -4-P.C                 i--    Zn  "is  Cr',        -  05   -4ZnL.44.,-P-PZCrfl       s   c's   4Zn'Znt.j4.j 55cr-,
C   14   'itt                  .44      -   to   Ui        C   X4  '1t3>         14fl       -   1-4   CC   'itZnZn        no's
-.-.--.CiCO-400  Zn             CC   Zn                                (445    -            CC   Z        tIC   -              Ct)  fl    z
ZZZnCCdiC4tC                 4444    Znt                               -   Zn            44i-4  -.1.112)2)414   2       -   Ad      A  -1
-                .CCiCCCI-..-.4-fl               -   22)0                                 C                 "TZn  22)0022          2       =   m4-4  ZnC   2)     22      CN
atZZtt                   44422                                                        )12Z-4--)               -.         At
4.4                  Z-RPCZ?-C                         -4-.                                                        --..-Z SI                               -A
CCCZS4C   -4  C.4              (p    <411                                       2)         sI'    III I           C       C   SAC   t-'i  S4t
T-l--4C  -it  t'i             -.4    -                                         -n         -4    C        Ji    Zn       -  -l*   >2   C                                      Zn
* -fl -r  t --it C -.          *fl   Slit                                                  'io'Sr-'i&'                              ZnCC-S4
Zn >=4.4 '4                   -4-n                                     C           -'   '---41-.                 S   *'4.  54   '-4
CaTCH    2)..4'-'4.<            C       fl.-                                               2       'w'i...mn             z  ..4    -
* . C -'144  '4                Ci    1"i-i                                    -           ii        n-iC-n              .-4  CA          in',
2)2)*.n    .4  CA                  '40'1                                     '4                 'iTt 'IA C               .4             '155 Zn 4-il' V
*   C   414   44                      CC'2                                      4'                3444,2   0               4)             5-44,
'41                                di                                     I                       514                                                                    2
IS                          I     S                                 S     S   (A        S      S                           I     S     S                        5t            .4
S     I                                 S     S             S     I                           S      S     S                       Sr            -,
a                                 S     S             S     5                           5      5    a                        5"'           Zn
*     I                                 S     S             S     S                            S     S     5                       5*            --4
-0d'CCJCt44JJ                 S     S                                 S    S               S     S                         -5   - &'S                            SW           S
-          .                -S  -'I -                                 a  a                 I  I                           - S - Sdi- S -
a 5444' SXC I                          S I  S   S        a S  -t S                            5 444. *C4 5444-.                  Ia            CA
CCCCCCN)OO'CC               C ICC  S4OJC                           U 5CC  SUC          C ICC  IJCJUJ4JCJ,J               C ICC  *-41C'4NSCA&i.--.--.44O'C       S.           in
S     S                                 5     5             5     5                           I      5     5                       5
*     5                                 5     5             5     5                           5      5    5                        4             =
5     5                                 5     5             5     5                           5      5    5                        5
5     *                                                                                       5     5     5                        S
Ct02,SOCCdiJ                a     a                                                            *                        -S
- S  - I                                N) S  N)S  N)          S     S                           S  4.4 5J  I                        S
)N)CSCCJ-)NCC              55   .41 5CC                             4 SC).-' 5C         Cii  .445             -   4-S    N) eat. 504144-555  -.4-di,diJ4        S             -
OJi-ZCCC---j-400            NION  50415                     N)      - 504.415110        N)SONSdiY.CiJi44iN)di04           QUO-Zn 515100.44 54'44-404              5            C
I     S                                 S     S             S     S                           a     S     S                        S             I-
*     S                                 a     a             S     S                           S     S     S                        S             44
*     S                                 S     S             S     I                           S     I     S                        S
-   .11       5     5                                 5     5              5     5                           5     5     5                        5            --
*-CC.)CC-(Ci4)CCSC            S     S                                 S    S              S      I                        ''S      S4S                       SIP              CN
0 '                  it  'CI   5                             54.4.  I  S   SO   S   S                              51 5 -US-JUl                      CJ Sfl4   I    Zn
CIiJCCCC4oSJtC'CC  St   Clx)-> StC                            55  Zn S.C          Cc   4111  .445                 L.-SC   a S-Cal 41C5--CCCC----4404.44  ste           r.-
Ct-CCC---CCOCSW   -s4-NSNtC                                 Car   CCSCCOSCO5C   -4SN)J'Srx)CCC>44C.--C  51   C Sdi.SONS.-.-..-.4N)li(N)N)N)44SCS.N)   t                        -r
SC      a     S                         Sr      5    5      IC)          S                          a      S     S                   5  5    C         C
52      5     5                         54.44   5    5      51      5     5                   544     5     5      5                   sins              a
Sc'     5     5                                 5     5     5>      5     5                   SC      5     5      5                   SC S    C         C
Ci  5l   5     5                                 5     5     54.)'   5     5                    5       5     5     5                    515    rfl'4     -,
N)CN)C C44C..C5 4.4S.        I     5                                 5     5     Sm      5      I                   C"   rUS   .-.S.-.'5                     its   Ca          c'
S.   * *.       .       5   -5-5                                    a 45   5      l.A     I     4                    5-4'  055.45-41415   ------Zn   -JI   S  c:)',           -i
N)ditCZCtOZ2)5  5?   ii St-*IZn0                                    151    5            CS   CS               -   N)      N) SZo Sadi SJOSOttZdiJiSSCl  s
flC4-QOCtCOOV  S    tSN-50t                                40      -0S44-N)S.NJC       inSt-lOS N)55LJL4di..J'- N)      d1S-.4ZnS--StSx)C0C----CC.,S.-'SL.C2)0             I
5-4     5    5                                  5    5              5     5                           5     5      s                   s-is   'V         C
SC           5                                       5             5     5                           s     a      a                   s-s       t       -
4       S     I                                 5     5             5     S                           5     5      5                   ICS     -(in
2-St      5     5                                 5    5              5      5                           5     5     a                    554    'ir       C
N)CN)0O.CSCCL.,0              S    S                                  S    S               S     S                        555   .-5r.3-5                          S  C
-. . . a-St-S                                                       a SC S                 S S                               5Zn-USNSZn N  S Zn  II
-.OCCC-.CCSCZ            Zn 5-.-.S.-.C                           di 54.41  5          0 S-.Zn S             -   N)       445440 SNN) I-4C..JZnCUldiO.         S    1
.44t-N)CCO.41t-COZ          tiN)diS2)00                     di        SC.4lZnSZncC      .'S11ZnSN)..4di)4Ui.flN).4.C      4CiSdi0SN)054.42Zn1100N)4S4             SC   Zn       V
S                                 a     5             5     1                           5     5     I                        S    C
S     S                                 S     S             S     S                           S     S      S                       S     C       C
     s                                 s     s             I     S                           S     S      S                       S     in      C
--    di.     I         S     S                                 S     S             S      S                           S     S     I                        S    0       Zn
N)CMiiJN)ZnN).-OC44CJ1        S    S                                  S    S               I     S                        rUS   *-IN).-5                          5            C
N).       .        .        Zn 544N)    -                           dil'.4   S             S     S                         N) SdiSt S.,4t S      ..N)N)C  -4      5     S
N)..-4CCZ-.C,,CCC           4.4 5C.'S..CI...                        455440   5          ZnS.-J1 S             -   lx)     N) SINZn S'CC StN.0C4..4C               S    C       C
.4iOCCOON)-JdiCO            N5-045L.0                       Zn      .>S0PSJiC           diS44NC SN)diJlUittS-'4.C         4JlS00S4..CZnS.0C4.CdiZn0O4....)      5)1  C
S     S                                 S     S             S     S                            a     S     S                       S
S     S                                 S     S             S     S                            S     S     S                       S
5     5                                 4     ,             S     S                            S     I     S                       S
--    -.5--   -.4       5     5                                 5     5              5     5                           5     5     5
N)N)N)N)N)C04N)452)           S     S                                 S    5              5      4                        NJ,   .-SN)-5                           S
045.445   -                            N) SN)   S            S      S                        N)SN)CSJlZn4         N)N)N)N)Jl  -a    S
iCs4.-.rCCC-4CCCC         .44 S.-.l'CSCCN                          t.4Si%S   S         ZnS.-J S              -   N.      ix) SN)C 555  SC t,-CCZnL,SC
.CI-CZnCCCC4JN)CC           ci' S'C. 504,4440              .44      - 54154(44 34010    -.55.4 54.40- 04-.--jJ.-C         USC-CiZn.C  S  N4,L4tdi                504
a     S                                 S     S             S     S                           S      S     S                       I
S     S                                 S     S             S     S                            S     S     S                       S
C     S                                 S     S             S     S                            S     S     a                       S
--   N)*  -4          5     5                                 5     5              5     5                           5     5     5
N)CN)4444CiCZnZn,.J4M444      5     4                                 5     5              5     5                         405   N)5N)N)5                         5
N).       .       .         S 5N).. S -                               S   S                S   S                           US  -it-S  -.40-N)N)N)N) .1' -4   5
N)C4XCCCINSCCCS             C 5455 SCZO                             Zn SC   S           ti   445              -   N)      N) 5.540 5CC.- S-.CCt.-44C'CCC
4.P.CSCC-OCON)00            CSC4.45Zn'-C                    .1      C Sii)llS4JlC       NSN)CS(44040- O.-.-.JZn.-4.-       YSN)UiC4.4544.444,4tZnZn44             S*
S     S                                 S     C             S     S                            a     S     S                       S
a     I                                 a     S             S     S                            S     S     S                       S
S     S                                 S     S             S     S                            S     S     5                       5
N)....  N         S     S                                 S     S              S     S                           S     S     S                        S
N)CiUUIJIZn1CC4..-Z           S     S                                  S    S              S     S                         N)S   N)SN)N)S                         S
N)..ZnS  .44 54N)                                                      S    S              S     S                         N) 4  N) CNN) 5.N)N)N)N)N)J'           5         .44
N)CtCCOCS4.-J'CC            55CC  i.-'CC                            N) IN)   S          OS   0-S               -   .55    N) IN.C  555  SN)JC42'tZn4.4t          S         N
.r-CZnCCa-.CN)Oa            Zn Set  SCaC                    44      C SZnJ S44145       -.5 di.> iC'N44C20'S'44.4          U'S ZniCiZn  t-CrtaO-C-di              SC       4:5
a     S                                 S     S             S     S                            S     S     S                       S         C
5     4                                 5     5             5     5                            5     5     5                       5
S     S                                 S     S             5     5                            5     4     4                       5         C
--    \:N)-  IN       5     5                                  5     5             5     5                           5     5     5                        5
NCN).44l5tC44i44 C            S     S                                  S     S             S     S                         N) I  N) S N)') S                      S
N)..Zn C C 5                                                           S   S               S   S                           N) S N) CNN) i-N)N) N)N)N)S            S
N)diJ.CCON).-N)ZC           N 54044 5N)                                5     5          0-S  Zn S              -   N)     N) S  N) INN) i..-.4)JSZnCS..(t         S
Jl0O.OCC4.COCC             C-SteNSCC-.'                     1)      C41SCUlS4rO         -.ai.-.ZnSL.4N51Zn1Zn.-.444       441I0J54t45.44CtCtZntdi                S'S
S     S                                 S     S             a     S                            a     S     S                       S
S     S                                 S     S             a     S                            S     S     S                       S
S     S                                 S     S             S     S                            S     S     5                       5         4-'
--    ,rx)'-  -'        s     s                                  a     S             s     S                           s      5     5                       5         I
N)CN)44141i*Zn.-0-4..40       S    I                                   S    S              S     S                         'OS   ri) SN)1O S                     SC
N).CS .445-N)                                                         S  S                S   S                           N)S N)SNN) 5..N)N)N)N)N).C N   SC   41
N)CCACOCN),-.4.455          NC   NSC                                   S     5          0.8  ZnS               -   N)      N)S   N1SNN)S.-JdlOO4-5t              SN)        4
Ui-CZnaaaC.CdiN)Ca          a isa  SaCS-C                   .       U'S a., 5.445       -..SS--a 5444t1ZnZn S4Cdi         Ii SaC' 5>4-S ZnClYZnZnZndi            SO        C
&jS
ho It'



44A7 I I  1NTFr It, SLC0'WO  t IV  ST OCK  PrIJF CT MPDt L 5 PLANALTo
*  NVENIJF ANU  FXPFNI)ITURL  FROM LIVESTOCK  SALES  AND PURCHASES
UNIT  PRICE                                         N CHUZFIRO
1R). EV.  20   PRE.OEV.               I         2          3         4          5         6          7          e         9    10-20
REVENUF
SALF OF CUb
COWS                    55u.u0   50 .00   2H600.   27170.   260A3-   38123.   38520.   38984-   47402.   48608.   60760.   60760.   60760.
9ULLS                   84(0.UU  840.00    202U.    2079.    3001.    2620.    2455.    2965.    3061.    38?77                     3827.    3827.    3827.
-----------_-------------------------------------------------------------__--__----_-.--
SU9RTTAI  1                                    31120.   29245.   290R4q    40743-   40975.   4196Y9   50464.   524I5.   64587.   64587.   64587.
--------------,--.-----,--------------------------------------,-_--------__--__------.--
SALF OF SUIPL US
HETFFRS  36-48          600,OU  600.00             Uo        0.         0.        U.         U.   33204.   43336.   41333. 3       53428.   t7599.   67599.
STEERS  36-48           830UUo  830.-0(    871.0   78850.   79481.   81502.   83330.   85084- 136736.  1504(9t 166060.  182289. 201304.
PURCHASHII STtFRS         83 .00   830.00           U.         ().  44687.  159188.  3920?8.  3b6394- 264578.  182319.   /4449.   i9015.                      O.
SUBTOTAL  2                                    87150.   78850.  12421h.  236690.  475358. 4746R2. 444650.  374062. 293938.  268903.  268903.
----.....---___  .--...._  -_.------........_---,___.,.  -----....-.......----...-------_-___.___--------------------..  _ 
TnTAL RFVFNUiE                                118270.  10A095.  153252. 21743?.  516333. 516652.  495114- 426496. 358524.  333489.  333489.
EXPENtDlTUPSf
PURCHASF nF
RRFEnAHLF  HFIFFt%S   600.00   600.00              U.  12000o0          0.        0.         0.         U.        0.         of        O*         0.         0.
HULLS                  ?i5O.UU '?SOO.}oo  12500.   37469.               0.    5152.   10568.   13116.   i1459-   13737,   13737.   13737.   13737.
STFERS                  650.00   650.00            0.   36454.  125291.  316505. 295809.  213600.  147195-   60t10.   15352.                      0.         0.
TOTAL FXeFNI)TTURt                             12500.  19392?.  125291.  321691.  306378.  226724- 198655-   73644,   29089.   13737.   13737.                              >
V   VX
INVFNTOH~Y VA[UV                             649100. 82()794. R(72773-10855d.l403176.1492409.145o)479.1445701-13b499h.1349166.1330152.                                   t



:, o  56E7UZ  *56iE6r ZC   tS4ZFZ  hZ6eoCZ  '96CsE9          19tEPW t   9Eorl  09Q0F l-'Pbitt- b79PC-   ?,9ZVt7                                JA00NI 13N
x=|  n     0           0o         n           n0                     .0                       0                      '                      XVI   Ju3hNI
<11 co                     05tSC  Z  S~-E6EZZ 00C WZF0 '0EWE '9b[EC   'O90q   '00Eont '90Z0017                          'P00I0 -  'S69UZ-  '095t                               iviON
'0         'b55001  '09SZl  '0999Z)   'Pt0  9C  '1610 EE  '0b66T)    '0960b  'I0   '61   bW69FI   P000C1                                    i';.XA  HIIu 
'o1El 'I ltiI    6 w o6o                 Ib9E4  'qs9uws   *Oz9z   '0%E9!E  *scsl                6S '0IC   '0I    9   '0001I            S 3 SIHI4   d   DuiSd
'00180     '0001       '0001b    '001          '0001       '0001       '0001      '000CS    '0001b        '00W5       '00/                  0ibZ      iJfl.
'0910t    )    ' 0 091        '009  '00091    *00t 0   9  ' d y 0009  I1;    '00091t  '0 0091  ' 6 00091~ y    'F000Gt    '00090               N.  .ivio
..._._.._..........................._____.__________..______._._..._._.____._._...._.....
o         0 0         0 0         0'          n                        0         ' 0         '0           (!0                      S 30d5NJdX4 -DNI 1i3S
'6IIZ S    '697IS        W           i969 S  '9ZCZ          99 ss5      0  61    'EU L 61   *6Ce6        '%09e0    '0179               SJiDW-49NINDlY
osZOOZ   4 CieOOZ   SZ qn?    qooz              S60oz) 5cOOZ? wCIoZ   '56 1   5CZSI    oety           I   I 0  Oi4XC e I .IIOl             14d3NIh  j 1vS
'SL5 S     'S  5SiI SlS    52L5S  51      s    I (I qi slsI             ; 9555  '525I SZZS  'S,   #.lbl  1    nsb i6 6  0   6 L           SJSN3dX3  IJA
iSll') J-ItVI8VA"
'OOOSS   oOOOSS   9'OUD5G               (l()()SI;  uos5    'OOOSS   I'OOOSS    'OOOOb 0     n 00  OWWE houF    Oni9F                                  1   0 1
o0          n           o -                    n                                                                         ( )  *s 6S9X9              H H70
OOOS  9I   O00Sl    '        InOt)SlC(G                       00 aI         noS  '0OS  IDOS  wOOS   'O  0  0          non 00t             )liv    lSVd
'OOQI        00  0)Q  '0Ol        *n 0ool     *0()0l      '0001       'OOQI       'OOQI       t nol0T        onu     I on0               iDil8ienl -Ijnj
0 00 91     0   9     of009T noo  9        1 n(s *00 9>    00091   t 00 9 T      '0 009 1      0 0 09;   noo b  l   *nnou                  3D\VNJliNlVH
( 0 0E Z       0 (oE     (0O:)ce   "OOOEZ    I   OUO     000Z noOz     ooEz   IOE 0   0ce          01z   *noolz    0 )0061 I                     HOURVt
SISOD 'J3XI4
.........~~~~~~~~4..
S1SOJ 9NIlVh3dO
6Ubt E    '  6WIEFiE  btZ;91E   96bsei    bil ;S6#  Re59915  PEEE9TS  'CEbCL   *FCIEqITSbEQ OrZC,U1'06I I                                3NiUDNI  'IvlOl
___._............ _.___._'_______.. -------............................................. _._._------- , ------.... ___ ------- ._ -----._.___._-o---- '---- ----
0                                 e  t        n                        o0                                 0           0.               3.3DdfoS  43HJ0
1WthEtE  969?Eft  bz5sSE  '96t0et  stITS60  *?S991S  'IE91Ss  '6OL16  ZSE; SI  sq609nlni                                    l        lndinLJ AD  JIVS
OZ-OI    6             9           1           9           5           by         E           Z           I           IA3n'1 Hed                              C"
__ - - -___________._.. -... _-_ --_---_-------.-------------------------- - - - -  - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - -. - - - - - - -..-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-..-.-.I.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.- -
0'
UNI 37rflD N          A3T
0iVNVid  5  1T10flw  IDJCLJd  >40fli$3AI1  OU?DU0             JIw43iNT   1I/vdH



H R A I I tINTF  I  SF CnNf, I I VF ST( C K PRO JFC T (JOLL 5 PtANAL T"
UASH fLU SiATfll[NT
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  fi
---------------- ;------
----------------------------------------    -------  ------ 7 -3 - - - - - - - :-
PFIF  fif V              I            1                          4            5            6                                        9            0                                                                                            I            I
................ I-----------------                                                          -----                                              -i.            -----------------------------------------------------------
- - - - - - -                                                       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - I I - - - - -  - - - - - -
CASH INFIIIW
';AL   I'll  LIIITF'l           I I 11       1 )80-S    1 5 3 2 5 2      7 7 4 1 ?   5 1 6 3 1 i:    1662   A9',l 1         2 6 4 4 t    i6 t, 1 4    131.9    3 1 3 4  9      333489.  333469    333489:  1 1 3                     3 3 3 4  I.  3 3 3   9.    339 .  3 134 .  33 349:  3 3 3 a A 9
OTHFR  S MIRC F S                                                                            i                                       U             1,                                                   0             0                                                                                u
U                                                                                                                                                  0
DFVFL aP Y E h T  ', n AU    29575 .   7b4((                            5 5 3?              D.           u.            U.
- C,
Cl T H FR  L HNG/-E 0.                               0                                                    u             U                                       0                                                     0 .                                      u                                       0             u
Hm  I A                                      299(U    I9 3 2 1 9.  IU647'j                  0            U:                         U:           0             0            a                           0.                        L             u
DRI  TF                                          U             U
RA      F  5 OTRT                                5 9       1  6 0      1 3 6 2 4 .         1).          0
NCH  R     C                                                                                                        0                          U                                                     0            0    . . . . . .  I     I        4 6    3 2 0 8 9 (I S, 52 3 1 3 0 0 u  2536936: 276OH?
d A L . F H fl 1, PFv.y p                    4262         3 2 ( 7 5           0            U                     4 2 3 1   I 67RI 7    3' 4   ".  -, 2 3 7  7    bde,70 1       8526?6
. . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - :- I - - I I - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
41 61, 2                                                                                                                                                       152681  .L
TOTAL  1NFL nK            -Ilh7L                I,  I I I I I I- 1291.  1 1 2 1 1          '11665.  4Y9,14           ,Y431 3       1 3 3 11              -1 U01 Yll    I 6 6 1 1                 . . . . . . . 3.    17-  -19/46 .2 1 9 e 6 1   242?554 .2646491). 2 IS I 0 4 2 'I . JlqA 3 1
- - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I 2 I - - - I - I - i- I - - - -  -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
SH OUTFlr
O;; R AT T K G 'C F) S T S         4 C, 0 6 .  ? t 2 9 f  1 98 U C, U . 4 1 3 7 6 0    4 1  9 A I    3 3 1 1 9 I.  2 1, I r 1 6.  I   6 6 t,  t 7 3 .  I U95'14 .  1OV554 .I 0 9 5 5 4 .  I 0 9 5 5 4 .  1 0 9 5 5 4 .  1               1099-4 .  10994 .I U9554 .  I 0 9 5 5 4 .  I 0 9 5 5 4 .  I 0 9 5 5 4 .
INVFST "' ITl
IIIV,LnP,,FNT, L flA                       13360:    r84OU :   5 1 2 0 0                               0:           U:                         u            u             U                          0            0.                         U.            U            0             0            U             1)
I         11111                                        U                                                                                            0.           0                           0 :          0 :                                                                              1):           1)
RANCHI              TTI                      3 3 1,       1960:   1 2bon                                U:                        U             U.           (I           0             0:            0.           0.                                       0            n             0            0
"A,                                                                             j            U            U             0            0            0             0                          0                          0             U            1,
RANCHFHS  W ITHORA                                                U             0                                                                                                                       0.                                                                               U
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                        - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -
TOTAL  14[il F I r VI        4( (Itl   4?9964 . 29(10OU   4 ? 1760.  41SY-  .  3 3 3 1  I .  2 6 1 r I 0 .  I                            5 6 7 3    lUY.154    I lYt,54 .t09'154.  109554.  1 0 9 5 5 4 .  1                        I U954.  1 ()954.  1 1959,  1 J9'19- .  1 11954.  109554 .
CASH   8AL%CE                                  -062        I 7 Y        ',I 3--  2 J 6 m I       1 6 3 4  I.  2 3 7 6  1.  4 2 I  4     9lbll.  (4f66) .  liot,3    It) f 6, b I .1245435 .14 1 7 2 5 9 . i 6  1 1                  1865 1 3) .2 0       6    23 1 1 0 1,) I .2536936 .2 7 6 O 8 7         A
C U M U L A T I V   UA            4 4  6 I.      U 5        648Y    II 0 3 1 7 .  3 1 ? I " 4.  I 8 3 4 6 1.  7 3 7 6  7.       I 6 4     5," 7 6 3 h    7 4 7 6 6 y .  9 1 0 6 3 7.I0 7 6 5 6 1 .1245435 .14 1 7 2 5 9 . i  4 i            5 1 3 0 .? J           3  3           3    'k
YU65 .2  I On9 . 2 5  6 9  6.276087    29648,T .
08T_SFRVICF
.711, T
t)E,tt 0                                      7 7 1 7    I   2 7      I 1 9 1"      2 3 5 9 8    239b :   ?L)64h           I Z6:    I7  9               7 9 9       Mi4Y         5R9q                            0.                                       U            0.            U.           O.
0:      ?950                                          0.                                                                 0.
P            A                                                                                                                                                                                            0.                                                                               Ij.           U.
S        A                                                                                   11           U                                                     U                                        0
PRFVIO         (ANS                                                                                    U.            i            I.            0                                       0 .           0.                                      U.            0            n.            0.
SHORT  Tt P IFAI                    U            U.                         n .                       C,            0.           U.            0            1) .         0.            0.            U .          0                                        U.           11
RFPAYHFN(S
r) E V Ft 0 P 1. F N T                                                        0                   4 9 1 6 2    4  t 6 2: 4 y t 6 2            I  2      4 9 1 6      4 9 1 b 2      9 1 b l :   4 9 1 6 2                                                                0                          0             0
OTHER  I             A 11             L                          U                                      0             U            U                                       C)            0             0            0                          U             0 :          0             O                          0
PRF   O           AN S                                                                     j.                         U.           U             U                          0.           0.            0            0.                                       j.           0             U.                         U.
SHnRT  TFI  tO A                                               1).   299n(.  I d 3 2 1 Y.  I 0 6 , 7                                                                                                               0                                                                   U.           U.            0.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - -                                          - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - -
TOTAL                                 I1      7 7  7 .   1 7 y ? I .   S I h      P681 7    I 1 9 2 1 U .   t 9 p I U.    , 6 - 6 U       3 Y 1 1.   h (, 9 6 I       C, II. 5506T.   5 2 1 1                     C)
---------------               ------   -----   ------    ------                                        --------------------------------------------------------------------------  ----------------------------------
C A ! H   H A L A I C F  A F T F 1)  t, I  '  t, V I L F
-- ---------------------- -----
4 4 2 6 2 .    1 2 7 1 5 .                                  1) .    4 2 3 I .  I   t,            f  6 .    3 7 ? f .  I h 6 7 1) I .  A 5 , e,  6 . I 0 2 1 5 0 0 . I 1 9 3 3 2 3 . 1 4 1 7 2 5 9 . I    I 1  I I  S I 3 0 . 20 M 9  6    2  1 3 0 0 0 . 2 ) 3 6 9 3 6 . 2 7 6 0 8 7 1 . 2 9 M 4 8 1) 7 .
C-t.i   f th fig--    i, thi, -Lg-y d -t ---P-d L. thll il T.bl. 4.  Th-, fig--    gi-    t.tl                                                                                t-         II T.bil 4 I-Ild, "I'll  tht I-ti.. .: th - t  ,f b- di -ttl hih  i, b.-
by th
N-b- 24, 1972



HRAZIt INTfJI N SECONIN  LIVESTOCK PROJFCT MODEL 5 PLANALTO
FINANCIAL RATE OF HETURN
(X1000)N CRULEIRI]
TnTAL,     oPEATTNG            NET        INCREMENTAL NET  OFVELOFMENT    INCREMENTAL
YEAR           INCUME         CUSTS           INCOMF          INCOME         INVESTMENT   NET CASH FLnW
0         I18a210          74.00'03         44.262           0.000          -0a000            0a00U
I         108.095         262o964          154.869        -199.131         6l67o0U0        -366.131
2         153.25?         198.0100         -44.748         -89.010         -98.000         - 8 7 .0  1 0
3         277.432         413*160        '136e327         -180.589         -64.000        -244*589
4         516.333         415.981          100.346          56*084          -0.000           56.084
5         516.652          333.191         163.461         139.199          -0.nuo          139.199
6         495.114         261.718          233.396         189a134          -0.0u0          189.134
7         426.496         17 2666          2_3M829         209.567          -0 000          209.567
8         358.524          125.613         232*A51         1880589          -0.ouo          lHMb589
9         333.4b9          109.S54         223.935         1796673          -0.(Uo          179.673
10         333*4b9          109.594         223.939         179.673          -0.000          179.673
11         333.469          109s554         223s935         179.673          -0.000          179.673
12         333 .409         109.554         223a935         179.673          -0.00          179.673
13         333. 489         109.554         223.935         179&673          -0.000          179.673
14         333o4b9          109.554         223.935         179*673          -0.000          179.673
15         333.I4e9         109a5 4         223a935         179.673          -0.000          179.673
16         333a489          109.554         223.935         179.673          -0a000          17 9.673
17         333*469          109.5S4         223e935         179.673          -0.000          179s673
18         333.489          109.554         223.935         179.673          -0.000          179.673
19         3336469          109.554         223.935         179.673          -06000          179*673
20         333o469          109.554         223.935         179*673           -0.000         660a725
_.______.___________  -________ -_,_____________________________________ -_____________________.__
THE RETUPNl TO THF RANCHER IS 16.3 PERCENT
F 3 
I-.



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE
INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ranch and Farm Development Projections
Model VI:  Development of a 4,500 ha Beef Breeding and
Fattening Ranch in the North of Goias
On-Ranch Investment Projections
Development Phasing
Average Units      Average Unit             -      Years---------            Average Cost per Ranch
Investment Category                     Unit        per Ranch            Cost                1          2          3
(---------------------------- NCr --------------------------)    (US$),/
Pasture Development:
Establishment                       ha          600                  350             105,000    105,000          -          210,000      36,206
Renovation                          ha          650                   60              20,000       19,000        -           39,000       6,724
Installations:
Fencing                             km           20               2,000               20,000      20,000         -           40,000       6,896
Water Points                        No.           2                7,000                7,000       7,000        -           14,000        2,413
Corrals                             No.           1              25,000               25,000         -           -           25,000       4,310
Houses                              No.           2               6,000                6,000       6,000         -           12,000       2,068
Shed                                No.           1               5,000                5,000         -           -            5,000          862
Machinery and Equipment:
Tractor                             No.           0.5            35,000               17,000         -           -           17,000        2,931
Cattle:
Breeding Heifers                    Head        350                  600             210,000         -           -          210,000      36,206
Bulls                               Head         20                2,500              40,000        5,000       5,000        50,000        8,600
Sub-Total                                                                                455,000    162,000         5,000       622,000    107,216
Contingency2/                                                                              25,000      13,000         -           38,000       6,784
Total                                                                                480,000    175,000         5,000       660,000    114,000
1/ IUS$ = 5.80 NCr.
2/ About 10% of Investments except cattle.



ANNEX 6
F.bie 33
RRAZTI INTERIMI SECUND LIOEST0CK RORIJECT HnUEL 6 NORITH GOIAS
'4300.0          (HECTARES)
HLtRE DIIEOi(MLNT PROJECTION
FNn (IF YEAR
P441.OEV.           1         2          3         4          5         6          7          3         4         10        11         12    13- 2 0
HERO Co144n5IT10N
BREEDING  0(I5                  3010      6 68       64;3      404        582       638        700        754       765        765        765       765        765        785
BULLS                            12.       2 7        26         24        23         26        28         30         3 1       3 1        3 1        3 1        3 1       3 1
CALVFS                          135       135        334       353        366        378       4.46       490       528        536        536       536        536        536
9-24 MONTH1 HEFEFFRS             64        65         65       162        1 71       1 77      1685       2 19      24U        2 59       ?62       2 62      ;262        2 62
9124  MONTH, STFFR8N             64        65         65       14 2       1 71       1 77      1685       2139      240        2 59       262       262        2 62       26 2
24'36 -0'1fH HFI14194            6 1       6 1        6 3        64       1157       166       1 74       1 62      2 114      2 35       2353       2 57      2 57       25?7
24-36 40614  STFERS              0 1       6 1        6 3        64       1 57       1 66      1 74       162       714        2 35       2 53      2 57       2 57       25 7
36-48 MONTH  STFEERS             59        59         60        6 1        62       152        1 63       1 70      1 78       21I0       2 31      2 48       252        252
FATTFNING CULt  64F9            03          29        65         75        7 1        79        67       I103        1 11      1 12       I112       1 12      1 12       1 12
TOTAL NULHFRIS           --      51      134        14         22         35       162        14          46       1994       20        ;1;1       24         200        2200
(TOTAL  AN14A151               706       114(I9     1363      1574       1 76 0    14960      2 14 4    2346       25?2       2 642     2707       2 7 32     2 73 6    2 73 6
504-TOTAL   0. I .             851       100        109   20             135        58        167       156        194        210       21 71      2196       220        2200
PIORCHASFD  034TF4 RJ                     241        6 76      405        905       618a       903        3 42      2306        94         29          0          0          0
TOTAL  ANI1AL  )NITS           051       12/5       1705      202--2-00-2200.2200                       2200       2200       220 0     220        29 20                 220
AREEITING LOWS                    4        1?         2 .0       1 9       1 8        1 7        1 3       1 4        1 5       1 5        1 5        1 5        1 5       1 5
BULLS                             4          0          1         1          1         1          1         1          1          1          1         1          1          I
WEANFRS                           3          5         4         10        11         11          8         9         10        11         it         11         II         It
9:24 4n639  HF IFF~S              4          3         2          2         5          5          4         4          4          5         5          5          5          5
9 P4 fnNTH ST7~t5                 4          3         2          2         5          5          4         4          4          5         5          5          5         5
24-36 M0NIH "1F9rF0               4          2         2          2         2          5          3         3          4          4         5          5          5         5
24 36 MnNrHSTFFH5                 4          2         2          2          2         5          3         3          4          4         5          5          5          5
36A48 MNTH90STEERS                          2          2          2         2          2          3         3          3         4          A          5          5         5
FATTFNTNG Ct,IL FFEM              4          1         1          2          2         2          2         2          2          2         2          2          2          2
SUB-TOTAL                        24        26          1         3          7         4          2         3           7        6           2         6           44
PURCHASEn STFFRS                  0          0         7         2 0       2 4        2 4       1 2        1 0         7          4          2         1          0          0
TOTAI                             6        2          38          2        6           6        4           4         o4                   4           4         4         44
PUoRL0HA SES
BREEDING  AGF HEIFERS                     350    0           0         0          0    a          3L        0                     0                    0    0                0
BULLS                             2        1 6         2          2          2         6          7         7          5          N          5         5          5          5
SUB-TOTAL                         2       3 66         2          2          2         6          7          7         5          5          5         5          5          5
STEERS                            0       2 41       6 76      9i0 5      435        6 16      5i003      3 42      206         94         249         0          0          0
TOTAL                             2       607        476       407        934        624       039y       3o9       212         Y9         34          5          5          5
S AL E S
BULLS                             I          1         3          3          3         3          3         4          4          4          4         4          4          4
36-48 MONTH HEIFFAS               0          0         C    0          0          0               0         0         4 1       852       1 03       1 20       1 24      12 4
36-4P MONTH S'FEP5               6,9       5 7        5 7        NA        59         6 0      1 49       160        16 7      1 74       2 06L      226       2 43       24 7
FATTFNTNAO CUIII  FEr            35         29        28         6 3        7 3       69         7 7       66        131I      109        11         Ii0 110    110       1 10
SUB-TOTAL                       1 05        4 7       67        1 24      1 35         3 2     730        2 t0       3 13      3710       4 24       4 61       4682      486
PURCHASED STEFRS                  0          0       233       6595       780        741       636        493        335       202         42         29                0    0
TOYAL                           10          7        31        7           1          1         3         742        68        57         515         9          88
P40300CTION nA10
WEANING  RATE  1             45.U0    45,00    50.30         55.00    60.00    6.0            0.1      7100        000       70.00    70.00    7000 7.00                70.00
AOULT 406  A76010   %         4.U0       4 .0 0     3 .0 0    3.00       4.110     3 . 00     2.40       2.411     2.00       2.411      2 .011     2.0 0     2 .00      2 .0 0
EXTRACTION RATE 'I           16.13       6.37      8.32    10.13         9.65      8.33    13.57    13.43    13.b5    13.65    14.7??             15.52    16.28    16.45
TOT. OUTPUT 460F 6           1 6 .13      4.3 7    4 .32    1 0 .13      94.6 5    8 .33    13 . 57    1 3 .43    15.64      1 7.5 5    14,. 51    29.301    21 . 93    22 .10
COWS/TnTIL  HFEn             3 6.1 7    5 7.1i1    4 6. 46    368. 72    33 . 05    32 . 54    32.6A    32 .1I0    30. -35    2 6.4 6    26'. 26  2 8 .01    2 7 .97    2 7.9 7
BULL/COW, RATTO  %            4.00       4.00       4.00      4.0)0      4.00      4.u6       4.00       4.00      4.00       4.0(0      4.00      4.00       4.00       4.00
COW CULLING RATF 5           10.06    10.00    10.00    12.00    12.00    14.00    14.00    15.U0    15.00    15.00                     15,00    15.06       15.00O    15.00
BULL CULLING kATE  6    10 .06          100       1 a I0. 00    1 2.00    1 2. 00    14.00   I  4. 00    1 5. 00    15.oO    15.00    15 . 00    1 5. 00    1 5. 00    15.00
STOCKING RATE  HA/A.1.   6 . 91          3.53      7.61       0.22'      2 .0 5    2.u5       2 . 05     2.45      2.05       2 .0 5     2 . 05     2 ,0 5    2 . 05     2 .05
STOCKING HATF 4.11./HA  0.14             0.29      U.36       0.45       0,49      0.49       0.44       0.49      0.49       0.49       0.49       0.49      0.49       0.49
CARRYING CAP. 0.11.             650      1275       1725      2025       2200      2200       2500       22011     2200       2?00       2200       2200      2200       2200
July 28, 1972



440 A7 11  INTE I   SE-CON D LTVESTOUCK PR OJEC T MOOJEL  6 NOfHT1 GOIA4S
RFVENuEF ANU EXPENDITURE FR0M LIVESTOCK SALLS AND) PURCHASES
UNIT PRICE                                           NOVO CRUZEIR
r-WRE.0EV.   20   PRE.tiEV.           I          2         3          4         5          6          7         4          9         10    11        12         13-20
- RE VENUE
SALF OF CtLi
cows                    5350.00   550.00   1 92 5 0.   1 5 84 0.   1 53 6 5.   34556.   39902.   i784 7.   4258m.   4 7 160o.   55496.   5 9 72 3.   60637.   60637.  60637.   6 06317 .
BUL LS                  A440.00   t140.440      bAo*       9 6 A.    2i7 6 .    2 51 3.    23844.    2 6 55.    294u.    3 4 59.    3 7 23.    3740.    3 7 80.    3780.    3 7 40.    37RO0.
SUHTOTAt  1                                    20090.   16804.,  1 7 54 1.   37069.   42236.   4 05 0 1.   45528.   50620.   59 2 19 .   63503.   6 44 17 .   6 44 17. 6 '4 441?.   64417.
SALF nF SIIRP IS
HETFFRS  36-48          &t .Lu   600.00            0.        0.         U.        U0.        0.         U .        U.        0.   243 40.   4 9 36 4.   6 1 753 .   72300.   7 4 57 9.   7 4 57 9.
STFERS  3-4R4          e03.00u  ,33 0.0o0   57270.   4 70 1 1.   4 71 417.   4 7 941I.   4 9 0487.   4i9599.  123931.  13253t,  138544.  144765.  170874,  187673. 201971.  205060.
PURCHASFL) STFE R         0,,3L .0 4o130 .00    0   U.         0 . 193779.  5 4 40 14~. 647720. 648426.  502420. '409066. 278261.  167640.   7 6 09 8.   2 369 1.                   0 .       0 .
SUBTOTAL  ?                                    5 7 270U.   47011.  240926. 592000. 696807.  694025.  626751. 941596. 441146. 361770.  308729. 263664.  276549. 279639.
TOTAL RFVFNOF                                  77360.   63430. 25446. 629069. 739043. 734526. 612279. 592216.  500364.  425213.  373146.  348081. 340966.  344059.
EXAPE NDIT URE
PU RCHSEA  IF
1BRFEnARLF HIFFPS   6 (00. 00   600.00             0. 210000.           000.                  0.       .U. .                 0.              0     .0.                  0.         0.        o
BULLS5                 2500.00  2500.00    5000.   40861 .    5960.    6 097T.    6 16 1.   1 52 36 .   1 6W93.   17 0 3 3.   1 37 4 1.   1 27 8 0.   12 7 80.   1 27 8 0.   1 2 ( 0.   1 27490 .
STFERS                  650i.00O  650.u oo         U. 1 56 4 44. 439215. 522939. 523509. 40 1411I. 326891. 222362. 1 339 6 4.  6 0 411I.   1 89 32 .                    0.        U .        0 .
TOTAL EXPFNDITURIE                              5000. 407304. 445175. 529036. 529670. '417047.  3431A4. 239395. 147704.   7 3 5 92.   3 17 12 .   12780.   1 27 80 .   1 2 7 0n.
INVFNTORY  VALUE                              390U40. 623306. 824142. 1248695.1458831'.15916?U. 1515848.1510714.1458392.1414341.1369956.133698241 316444.1316444.
>r



E P9AZII TNTFPIM StCUND LIVESTOCK PROJECT MODEL 6 NORTH GOIAS
INCOME STATFMFNT
r-i                                               NOVU CRU7FIR
PPE.OEv.                  2        3        4         5        6        7         8        9       10        11       12   13-20
INC Om E
SALE OF PUTPUT       77360.  63819t  25846 . 629069. 739093* 738526. 672279. 592216. 500364. 425273.  313146.  348081, 340966.  344055.
nTHER SUlJPCFS           -O        0.      UO         0.       ()       0.        .        0. 0              O.  01.           0.       0.        0 
TOTAL INL-nMF         77360.  63819. 258467. 629069. 739093* 738526. 6722r9. 59?216. 500364- 425273- 373146. 348082. 340966. 3440554
OPERATING COSTS
FIXEO COSTS
LABOuR                 I1I00.!  150 00.  15000.  17O0.   1 70o0 .  1700       u. i7u    7U.  1700.   1 7000.   17 0 .   17000.  17000.  17000
MAINTFNANCF.            2500.    4500.   6000.    6000.   6000.    6000.   6000.   6000.    6000.    6010.   60(t.   6000.    6000.    6000.
OIL FUEL                6000.        8000.    8000.   8000.  10000.  1o00t0.  10000.  10000   1()000.  1)000.   1000)0.  10000.   10000.  I00 00
PASTURE NAINT.          3000.       0.        0.  15000.   1500n.   15000.   15000.   15000.  15000.   19000.  15000.  15000.  15000.  15000.
OTHER EXPNS             500.    0oo0.   500o0    5000.   5000.   5000.   5000.    So00.    5000-   5000.   5000.   5000.    5000.    5000.
TOTAL                   27500a.  3250)   34000.  51000.  53000.  73000.   530(0U   53000-  53000.  53000.  53000.  53000.   53000.  53000.
VARIABLE CnSTS
VET FXPF;SFS            4557.    8925.  12075.  14175.   1 15400.  15400.   154006  1540         154(00   15400.   15400.   15373.   15400#   15400.
SALT MINFRAt            5859.  11475.  15525.   1 225.  19800.   19800.   1y8oo.  29800.   1980U.   19800.  19800.  19766.   19H00.   19800.
CONTINGF iCIFS          4292-  23010.  25339.   3062?.  30893.  25262.  21569.  163. o   1795s    609 0.    5996.   5046.    5049.    5049.
SELLING FXPFNSF;          01.       0.        0.       0.       0.       0.        U.       O-.      0         0.       0.       0.  0 O            0I
TOTAL                   14108.  .3410.  5939.  63rJ?.  66093.  60462-    6769.   5158.   46995   43290.   41196.   40165.   40249   40249.
STOCK PORCHASFS          500U. ?06619. 440407, 929036. 929670. 41704t- 3431A4. ?39395. 14770(4.  73592.   31712-  12780-.  12780   12780.
TOTAL COsTS            41208. 282530. 527346. 64305s. 648763. 530509. 45s953. 343977. 247700r   169881.  125908. 105966. 106030.  106030*
INCOMF                  30152*-?18?111-268b78.  -139A9.  90330. 208017. 219326. ?48241*  ?52665- 259392. ?47238. 242115. 234937. 238026.
INCOMF TAX                          U.        0. o     Ot       Us.      0).       u.       U        U.       0o        0.       0.       0O        o .
NET TNCOMF              3r1152.-218710.-268878. -13968.  9033(). 2U8()16. 219325. ?48241. 2?664. 255391. 247?38. 242115. 234936. 23o025. ( X



2                       I    0'n'A0'A0'Al'A'Anlr00'AAO','A,0.n'Ar'1'12 I
I           ''A  'A  'A'A')lfl"A'Ao'A)p' 'AbIA  'A  'A  -'  'Afl'A)'l)LA'Al0  -'A   'A.'A'A11'A  I-.
0                       l0         00r')'A0'A I 'A.-I000)fl0'A.-I60'A'A-l00'AflI'-.
0                                  0  -'A    0  0          'A                               'AZ   A  flt                       'A
'1                         202       '-'A-n          A
'A    0                          <7 0C0A0l               'A
'A                      I                           'Al                                                 I   .
A                           *                          OIl    I
'A'             I'A1l'Al                 -         'A'A'Al'A00I                12 I2'A   'A  'Al    I  I                 'A
-3 I....I I
S                    -      l'A  *2          2
0002  OCCO                C 'A 'AI"00 OX    16 lI-COOS 00
- I.......I
0             'A    I   I                           6  6  *- I          -      IC  IC          'A      I
0             6     I                               'A  'A  -,           -      l'AI'A           'A     I  I
'A           'A    IXI          III      'A        'A 'A  'Al            'A    90 *'A            0      I
0             -     I   I                           2   'A    I                 I'A   I                 I
'A    I  I                           'A  2  'Al           'A    I'Al'11           'A     I
I   I                          'A  'A  'Al          'A    1212              'A     I
'A    I  I                           'A  'A  'Al           'A    111310           'A     I  I
6 I I '4 'A 'Al 0 1116 'A I I
NI    I  I                           NI  111  'Al          'A    111110           IA    *'Al
-.            6      *0I'A022   0022                'A  6  212000   0           l'Al'A02000131          I'Al
'A            .
2                        I                                                0     I'A  I          0      I
0                                                       0   'Al           'A    lOll
0  .                                                                      I---I
2             'A     I  I                                                       1 'Al'A                 I
0             2      I  I                                                 'A    '0  '3           'A     I
0             *'A    I   I                                                0     I-I-"            0      I  I
2                    I  I                                                 0     l'Al6             0     I
'A            0   IC  0000  00                                            0   IA 12<00002    121
0 I                                                                       ..I
'A.          'A      I   I                                                      I-I-                    I
0             6      I   I                                                I'    I  'A   12              I
'A            2                                                           0     117 l'A                 I
0             0      I                                                    'A    1212                    I
2             0      I   I                                                0     I'A  16           0     I
I   I                                                2     1216             2      I'AI
2              3  1010000 00                            10010020 0  1012000002   121
I I
*                          l                          12    I 'A              I   I
0                        I                          0                     'A    1016             'A     I  I
*                          'A                    0     1012             0      I  I
*                          'A                   'A    1210               'A    I
*                          'A                    0     1 2   I 'A       0      I
0                        I                                               .0    1210              131   l'AI
100002000    000100000   10I2060002  161
-  ...I
*                          2                           121'A                   I  I
*                          2                     'A    1282              0     I
1                          03                    0     1212             0      I
0                        I                          2                     2     111312           'A     I  I
0                        I                          'A                    0     1212              0     1  I
0                        I                          2                     2     l'Al'A            2     I'Al
100000000                  22   120<0 '3  1210000002   101
*
I                          2                           1212                    I  1
I                          'A                   'A    1212                     I
I                          2                    0      1612             0      I  I
*                          'A                   'A    1012              'A     I  I
*                          'A                    0     lOIX             0      I
I                          'A                   2      I'AI2            2      I'Al
lOOCO 0000    2212000 0  1212000002  101
I I
0              2     I  I                           2   2      I                 1212                   I
0              6     I  I                            '3  'A              'A    l'AI'A            'A     I  I
0     I  I                           0   0  Cl             0     1012              0     I  I
A              2     I   I                           2  2  'Al            2      1210             'A     I  I
'A I I 'A 'A 01 0 I'AI'A 'A I I
0'                   I   I                           2   0  'Al           'A     ICIX             2      l'3I
'A  1010000  0000                    'A 'A 010000  0   1212000002   101
0.I I
9 499tJ
9 X2NNV



H bAZTI INTERLi SECOjND LIVESTOCK PROJECT MOUFL 6 NnfTH GOIAS
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETUKN
(XIOOO)NnDn CRUZEIR
Tn I Al     OPFR4ATING           tsFIT      INCHEMENTAL NFT  fFVE.L0PMIFMT    INCREMFNTAL
YEAR           IMCIJCMF         COSTS            INCOMF            INCUME          TNVFSTMFNT    NET CASH FLOw
0           77.30            47.2u8           30.152            0.000            -0.000            00 0 0
1           6 3  163.619    483.214         -4419.395         -4 49.547'       -230.000          -679.547
2          258.467          532.113         -273.646          -303.798         -110.000          -473.796
3          6?9.009          643.058           -136988          '44.140            -0.000          -44.140
4          739,093          646.763            90*330           60.176            -0.00(0          60.178
5          738.%?6          53o.5o9           208.016          177.664            -0a00O          177.864
6          612.7(9          452.9S3           219.325          189.173            -0.000          jA9o173
7          592.716          343.975           248.241          218.089            -0.(00          218.089
8          500.364          241.7n0           25?.664          222.512            -0000          2;2.512
9          425.203          169*8e1           259.391          2256239            -0.(00          2256239
10          373.146          125a9c8           247.238          217.0 86           -O.OUo          217.086
11          348.061           105.966          242.115          211.963            -0.oCo          211a963
12          340.966           106.030          234.936          204.7R4            -o0o.0          204.784
13          344.055          1066030           238.029          207.873            -0.o00          207.873
14          344.055          106 .030          238.029          207.t873           -0*000          20t7873
15          344.055          106*030           238.025          207.873            -0.000          207.873
16          3 44.055         106.030           23A.025          207.873            -06000          207.873
17          344.055           106.030          238*025          207 873            -0.00u          207*P,73
13          344.055          106.030           238.025          207.673            -0.OuO          207.873
19          344.055           106.030          23A.025          207.873            -O.OU0          207.873
20          344.055           106.030          238.025          207.673            -0.000         1114.277
... ..... _.._._______ ................................................ ___._.....................__._......_-_.____....................._._*
THF RETURN TO THF RANCHER IS 12.4 PERCENT
w a,



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE
INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Raach and Farm Development Projections
Model VII:  Development of a 3,000 ha Beef Breeding and
F.ttening Ranch in the South of Goias and Minas (erail
On-Ranch Investment Projections
Development Phasing
Average Units      Average Unit             -------Years---------             Average Cost per Ranch
investment Category                     Unit        per Ranch             Cost                1          2          3
(------------- ----------------  NCr -------------------------    (US$)"J
Pasture Development:
Establishment                       ha          500                  300              150,000         -           -          150,000       25,862
Renovation                          ha          600                    60              18,000    18,000           -           36,000        6,206
Installations:
Fencing                             km           18                2,000              18,000      18,000          -           36,000        6,206
Water Points                        No.            2               7,000               7,000       7,000          -            14,000       2,413
Corrals                             No.            1              25,000              25,000          -           -           25,000        4,310
Houses                              No.            1               6,000               6,000          -           -            6,000        1,034
Shed                                No.            1               5,000               5,000          -           -            5,000          862
Cattle:
Breeding Heifers                    Head        220                  600              132,000         -           -          132,000       22,758
Bulls                               Head         18                2,500               42,000         -        3,000          45,000        7,758
Sub-Total                                                                                  403,000    43,000       3,000          449,oo0      77,409
Contingency2/                                                                               23,000      4,000          -           27,000       4,691
Total                                                                                 426,000    47,000        3,000         476,000       82,100
1/  IUS$ = 5.80 NCr.
2/  AbouLt 10% of Investments except cattle.                                                                                                                                      a,
0m



ANAEX 6
ART/IL INTF6IM SEcnNP LIVLSOTICK PR[JFCT MODEL 7 50014I OF Gn1A5 M1NAS G6661S
3000.0            CHFCTAHE5)
HERD0 OFVFLnPMENT PROJECTION
FNT nF YEAR
PRE . bF%      1          2           3          4          5          6          7          A          9         101               120
H640 C)1IM6T151TION
BREET)ING (litS                  3OU        450        542         53         545        6U9        673        721        721        721        721         721        72
RULLS                              I2         2n         23         2          22         24         27         74         7           2,         29         249        29
CALVFS                                        I  10     130        3 53       344        3483         5 7      5 0        5941       041         341        54 1       91
9-24  mOST"  "FlFFPS               /4         79         47        60)       173        iii        191        2014       247        265         265        265        265
9-24  HMONT-  0TFF40               70         79         47        160        173        171        197        224        ?4t        265         265        265        265
2A4-3 6  M1I~TH 74 F I FFoSI       73 4       75         7 7        95        5 7        69       16         16 It4     21I9       2 4 2       2 60       260        2 60
24-36 MOITHI  ST6FF4               74l        75         77         99        157        169        169        164        219        242         260        260        260
3 6 -49  M0IT74  5TFF1S               ( 5  loj 3                     5         I         154       66          6 4       1 60       2I)       23          2525
FATTFNING CUIL   FM                30         24         64         63         53         on         90         94        bA)         10 6       1 046      106        1 06
TOTAL  N,"'FIPS                  71i6       4 16      1 03 1     11 1146    14707      1 566       66 6      1 4268     4         33496      2 14 3     216 0       2 16 0
(TOTAL  AN~At 51                9961      1 1166     1 361      19 39      1 72 3     1 93 1     2 12 3      243 33     2 51 0     2627       2 6464     2701        2701 
SUR-TOTA  D.1.                  716        496       1031       (46       1376        1949       6o4       929i      1969       20o6       2143        21601      2160
PURCHASEI) STF76'S                -0        5074        9 79       9 74       744        6 12       4 94       33i2        1 91        74           0          0          0
7OTAL  AN1   A        N1 <STS   7 16      199 60     1 9 10     2 1 60     21 60      2 16 0     2 16 0      2 1 60     2 16 0          1 6 0  2 13       210         16
MORTALITY
RREE01N0  07V45                     5         1 2        17          6        1I         11          1 2        13         16          4          1           61
ROLLS                               5          0          1          1           o          U)         0I                                                       
WEANFRS                             0          7          s         to           '          7          6          9         0        jIt         1           I1
9324 MONO" PEF4F~I!                 5          3          2          3           3          3          3          445559
9-24 MONT"  STFFSS                  5          3          2          3                     3          3          4~         4           ''
74-3A M0NTH HF14F65                            3          2          2           2          3          3          3
24-36  -(INIH  STEEPS               0          3          2          2           2          3          3          3          45 
36-44  MflItT   STFFPS              5          3          2          2           1          2          3          3          34                                5
FATTF'NTNG NLIL  FF1,                          I          1          2           I          1          2          2          22222
SUAITOTAL                         40          24         30         31         2 3        27          301        33         31         99         42         '3          43
PURCH'ASF7f STFERMS                 u          0         1 7        26         149         1 6        1 2        1 0         7           4          100
TOTAL                             Lo          29         47         97         4 3        43         43"    3   '     ~     a3         4          43         43          4 3
9RFEEMING AGE   FtFRh             -u       220           0          7)          0          0          0          0          00I                                 
RUOLLS                              1         1 7         0           1          3          6          7          655555
--    -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  - -  -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  - -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  - -  -  -  -  -
S U B-TO)TAlI                       1       237           0                               6          7          6          5          5           5
STEERS               ~0                     5 74A      679         9704       79 6       6 12       4 44       32         1  I       7 4          0          00
TOTAl                               1       $11        679         475        7400       616        901        336        19)5         79           5          5          9
SALES
ROLLS                               1                    3           3                    3          4          "' 
36-41 MIOI`rT  HFIFF45            -0           0          0          0          0           a          0          4         60L        95        1 17       1 34        13 4
36-49 904,TH  S'fFFR6             70          67         64         70         7 3        41        5         16 3       61        17 6       21I1       2 33       24 9
FATTrNTNO, lii, L F FM             3 0        29         26         62?        6 2        6 2         '4         e 99      '97        10o4       1064       1 04        1 04
SUA-TOTAI                        I01          4 7       100        35        1 37      1 46       23 3       204,        3 22       3749       4 36       4 75        49 2
PURCHASEDI STF4645                             0       957         Mr93    ~9 4          7 10       5v99        49t4       3 25       Ile?         7 3         0          0
TOTAL-                           101          47       657         499       1092        917        '932        742        647        566        909        A75         492
P40o'Cl iICT IO   0914 AI 
WEANING  '<l104               53.04o    60 .00    60.40         65.00      65 . 06    70 .0 0    75 .00      751. 00    75 .00     75. o0        75.0LI0    7 5 .00  75 .0 0
ADUILT MOI`A'.TTY 0             3.oou      4 .00      3 .oU      3 . 00     2 . 00     2.00        2 .00      2.oO        2.00       2 .0o0     2 . 00     2 .00      2.00
EXTPACTF14 dV    446          .11        9 .46      9 .7 1    11,I41     0i.00       4 .4 6     3.I44        3.492    3 .4 7   3.4?,7      5. 15   .0        166
TOT. OlITPijT RATEA            4 .11      9 4.46     96.7 1    11 . 4I    10 .00a      9 .4 6     3 .49     4 .13     6.-35    16. 1 7    2 0 .34    2 1 .99    2 2.7 6
COWS/TrTTL  6690              34.05    47.20         39.85      34.93      31.71      3.54       31.71      30.411    24.73    27.45    26.97    26.70    26.70
RUJLL /Cf n e ATTII '           3. 00      5 .4(0     4 . 00     4.00       4 .00I      4 .00      4.40       4f.00o     4.00        4 . o0     4.00     4 . 00       4.0 0
COW  TilLLfl T4RATE  7        11.00       0). 00    1 2 . 0    12.00      12 .00     150  0      19  )1     1 5 .00    15,.u       15 I.00)    1 5.I00   1 5 .00    1 5. 00
HULL  CUILl iN4  ROTE%    10.O            10. f)00   1 2 .00l     2 .oo   12.00      15.oO       195. 00    1 5. 00    IN.uO       14 .uOL    15 . 0o   1 5 .00    145. 00
STOCK" I ~rOTF  H  A,. LI.   4.149        1.4 2      1 .5?7     1 .34     1.39         II349      1.3 9      1 .3i9     1. 39       1 .3 9     1 .4 0     1 .39      13
ST0TKI50  'AT'            ',I.H 'iM  1.24  0.52       0 .6 4     0 . 72     0 . 72     0 . 72      0 .7 2     0 .72      0.72       0 .7 2      0 . 71     0 .7 2     0,.7 2
CARRY I If   A' I    A'.        I9e 1967              113        2 16 0     2 16 0      2 16 0     2 1 60     2 16 0     2160        2 16 0     2 16 0     2 16 0     216 0
July 26, 1972



RRA7II INTFhlM SECOND LIVFSTOCK PROJFCT MODEL 7 SOUTH OF GlIAS MiNAS GFHAIS
REVENUF ANO EXPENDITURE FROM LIVESTOCK SALES AND PURCHASES
UNII PRICE                                       N CHUZEIRD
_._......_..,_.._.__,........... .. ______.. ............. ..... .. ... ... .... .  ^....__ ........ .... ........... _.. .......... ... ._.,..___
PRE .UEV.  20  PRE&UEV.             1        2         3         4         5         6         7         a         9        10    11       12-20
REVENUF
SALF OF Ct!LL
CoWs                    50.o0  550.o00   16500.   15840.   15365.   34170,  34025.   340 ,7.   43299.   48252.  53338.  57138.   57138.   57138.  57138.
BULLS                  H40.UO  840.00        840.      968.    2690.    2296.    2124.    2699.    3008.    3325.    3562.    3562              3562.    3562.    3562,
._____....................__.. __..... ___..................... __,.......... ._................ .,,..............,_,___,,,,,................................. __
SlIBTDTAL I                                 17340.   16808.   18055-  36466.   36148.   36766.   46307.   51577.   56900.  60700.   60700.   607004  60700,
SALF OF sLRPLUS
HETFFRS  36-48         600.00   600.00          0.        0.        0.       0.        0.        U.        0.    2409-  35753.  56707.   70300,   80457.   80457.
STFERS  36-4H 830.00  830.00  58100.  55776.   57194.   58477.  60614.   67502. 125084,  134934.  133720.  146428. 174835.  193262. 207031.
PURCHASFb, STEERS       436. 00  830.00          0.        0. 462327.  707896. 792100. 6394Ho.  497504- 401896.  269772.  154983.   60296.                     0.       0.
.......   ......   _.......  .......   .......   .......   .......   .......   .......   .......   .......   .......   .......
SUBTOTAL  2                                 58100,  55776. 519521. 766376.  852714.  706981.  622588.  539238.  439246.  358118,  305431.  273718. 287487.
............................................................................................                        .
TOTAL RFVFNUF                               75440.   72584. 537576. 802842. 888862.  743747.  668895. 590815. 496146.  418818.  366131.  334418. 348187.
EXPENDlTOHF
PURCHASE OF
RRFEnEALF HFIFFHS   600U.iU  600.00             0. 132000.         O-        0.        U.        0.0.                0.U.      0.        0.        0.        0.
BUILS                 2500.00 2500.00    2500.   42860.             0.    3629.    8299..  1 537.  16589.   16038.   12043.   12043.   12043.   12043.   12U43.
STEFRS                 65C.uO   650.00          U. 373261.  571524. 632979. 511016.  397563. 321161. 215579. 123849.  48184.                       0.        O,         U.
TOTAL EXPFNO1TUt4P                           2500. 548121. 571524.  636607. 519316.  A12941.  337750. 231617. 135892.  60227.   12043.   12043.   12043.
INVFNTOIRY VALUF                           410100. 592145.1076684.1393350.1591864.15b1097,l467470.1478491  142875161387532,l333239.12869931286993.



NsAZ Tt INTFlI I FC(Ifl) LIVEST OCK PHnJECT MOnEt 7 SOUTH OF (inlIAS MINAS GFEMAIS
N)                                          INCrOME STATFMFNT
-"                                                N cHtizEiRn
PR PtI)0F9       1        2         3        4        5         6        7         8                 10       1    1220
___._.________________________________..____.________..__.______________________________._________......
INCOMF
SALE []F IOJTMOT      75440.  12?54. 537576. 802849. 8d8S62. 743747. 668M95. 599)815- 496146- 418818.  366131. 334418.  348187.
OTHER SOIIHCFS                      0.       U. OO    0          .       0. OU              U.        0.       0.       0.        0.       0.
TOTAL INCOME           p5440.  725i4. 9375M6. 80842.    88862. 143747  669895. 990815.  494                  88.  366131.  334418  348187.
OPERATINr, COSTS
FIXEO COSTS
LABnUR                 12U().   iSoco.  15000.      90  15000. 15()0   I8000-.  1800.  18000.  18o00.   18000.   18000   18000.   18000
MAINTFNANCF             800o.  14000.  16000.  16000.   16 00 0.  160 00.  16000.  16000.   i6000.  16000.  16000.   16000*  16000,
FUJEL AN) nIL            0o.   1000.   10000.   0l0UO     13000o   13000.   13000.  13000.  13000.  13000.  13000.  13000.   13000.
PASTURF lAANTFNANC    4U00.          0.       0.        0.  16500.  16500.   16500.   I65U0.  16500.   16500.  16500*  16500.   16500.
OTHFR EXPFNS            50)0         0        U. 0. 4       .    00                 0 .      0.        0.       0.        0.       0.        0
TOTAL                   36)000.   37000.   41000.   41000.  -60500.  63500.   63500.   63500.   o3900.  63500.   63500.   63500.   63500,
VARIABLF COSTS
VET FXPfNSFSN           5012.  109(0).  13370.   15120.   15120.  19120.   1510.   15170.  15170.   15120.   15002.   15120,  15120.
SALT MINENAt            6444.  11040.  1190.   19440.  19440.  19440   19440.  19440*  19440.  19440.  19288.  19440.  19440.
CONTINGFNCIFS           49 O.  30504.   32154.   39608.  307t9.   25550.  2179U.  16484.   1169H.   7914.    5492.    5505.   5505.
SELLING  XPF iSES F.                 0.       0.        0.       0,       0. O       .       0.        0.       0.        0.       0.        0.
TOTAL-                  16492.  55464.   62114.   7016.  65279.   60110.  56390).  51044   46258   42414.   39781.   40065.   40065
STOCK PUNCHASFS           ?500. 408233* 911524. 636607. 519316  412941. 337790. 23161 1  139H92.  60227.   12043.  12043.   12043.
TOTAL CnSTS            94(;7 900697.  67573H. 747776. 645095. 536591. 4s760.  34616.  249650. 162011                         11 608.  115608.
INCOME                  2048t.-428114.-137662.   55066. 243767. 207196. ?11?Q5. 244694.  250496.  25?617* 290807. 218610.  232579.
INCnMF TAX                 0.        0.       0.        0.       0,       0.       U        U,        0        0 .       0.       0.        0 .
NET INCOL              20488.-428113.-137662.  55069. 243766. 207196. ?11245. ?44654. 250495. 252617. 250807. 218810. 232579.                       OD
I..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
ff             .-J   -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
*                                                  ,;;;,! jw _f~~~~~V-



I'              a  -4c-flacaa-.laa',a,-anzac-', a.   a . na-n-',,,,
(A                *-. a       a        a
a        a         0  0   a
SAN aaaaa  coca               a a aaaaoc  a   .a aacaccaa
N           N)        a                          -a  NA    '                aaN)                    a
a     a  a                          -S  N>  -a            -     aaaa             a     a
a     a  a                           -  a  -a             -     ana-)            P     I
a   a                         a  a  a.              a     Ia,-             a     a  a
c     a  m                              C  a,             a     ,o-ar           .-    a  a
a                 a  a                           Nm        a                acaa                   a  a
a     a  a                          a  a  -,              .-    *aa             a     a
a     a  a                          a  a  -.              .-    ac,a             a     a  a
a     a  ,                          a  a  aa             SN    aNAsa             a     a
a     a  a                           a  a  a,             a     a--aa           -     a
A           a     a  a                           a  a  Ca             a     aaa-4            a     a-a
a  I                          NA  N)    a                 aNaaNA                 a
a     a  a                                  -a            a     aaaa             a     a  a
-     a  a                          -  N-                .-    aaaa              a     a  a
a     a  a                           a  a  5',           a      .aaa             a     a
N                 a  a                              NA  a,            a     masa                   a  a
c           a                                    a  a  C,             a     ,ama             a     a-a
a           a   acm coca coca                    a aa,cccca    aa a acacaca   a-a a
-           A     a  a                           a  a  -a             a     aaaa             a     a  a
a     a  p                          a  a  - p             a     aaa-             a     a  a
a     a  a                          a  a  am              a     aaaa             a     a  a
a           -     a  I                           -  a  C a            a     a paa            a     acm
O           a   acm coCa CCOC                    a-.   accac  a   aca cacocca    C a
a.a
7y
9 73!7NV



P A?IL  INTFNIM  SECtlN[) LTVESTOCK PROJFCT MODEL 7 SOUTH OF GOtIAS MINAS GFRAIS
FINANCIAL RATF OF HFTURN
(XlOUO)N  CHULEIRO
,-,  -  ----- ----- ------------------------------- -- -__-----__--__--_----------------------------------------------------------------------...................................... _     _....      __      __      _._, _, ,,  __      ___     __      __,_,_
TnTAl         PHFHATING             NET         INCREMFNTAL NET   DEVEL.OIPMFNI         INCREMFNTAL
YEAR             TtIiCUMF         CoSTS              INCOMF             INCOME           TNVESTMEN)   NET CASH FLflw
0            75 .440            54.95?            20.488               0.000            -0O,bO              0.000
1            72.584           640.585           -568.OO1           - 588.489         - 52.000           - 840.489
2           537.5(6            675.238          -137.662           -15 .150           -47.000          -205*150
3           80?. A42           7'47.776           55.06S             34.577             -0.000             34.577
4           88.A86?            645.095           243.766            223.278              0,000            223.278
5           743.747            536.551           207.196            186.708              0.000            186.708
6           hh8.P95            451.600           211.295            190.807             -0.000            190.807
7           590.815            346.161           244.654            224.166             -0.O()            224.166
8           496.146            245.650           250.49S            230.007             -0.000            230.007
9           418.818            166.201           252.617            232.129              0*O000           232.129
10           366.131            115.324           250.807            230.319             -0.000            230.319
11           334.418            115.608           218.810            198.322               O.nOuo          198.322
12           348.1b7            115.608           232.579            212.091             -0.000            212.091
13           348.t17            115.608           232.579            212.091             -o.noo            212.091
14           34P8.lW7           115.606           232.579            2126091              O.OuO           212.091
15           348.8t7            115.608           232.579            212.091             -0.0000           212.091
16           348.187            115.608           232.579            212.091             -0*000            212.091
17           348.187            115.608           232.579            212.091             -0.0O0            212.091
13           34fl8.17           115.608           237.579            212.091             -0.000            212.091
19           34M.187            115.608           232,579            212.091             '0.(00            212.091
20           348.187            115.608            232.579            212.091             '0.000          1088.984
THE RFTtJUP[ TO THF PANCHER  IS   15.6 VERCENT
PrIz






BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE
INTERLM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Estimated Project Costs
Estimated On-Ranch Development Costs
Region I                 Region  II                  Region III                                            Foreign Exchange
(350 Ranches)             (250 Ranches)              (100 Ranches)                  (700 Ranches)                Component
Unit         Quantity       Cost        Quantity       Cost        Quantity      Cost          Quantity    Cost              /0          us$ooo
(US$0  o00)                (US$ 000)                 (US$ 000)                   (US$ 000)                            -
Pasture Development:
Establishment:
Conventional                          '000 ha         87       5,760            123        6,362            59       3,465             269    15,587               26          4,000
Oversowing                            '000 ha          25      1,060             -            -             -           -                25      1,060             26            300
Renovation                               '000 ha         137       2,008           123         1,355           64          665             324      4,028             30          1,200
Installations:
Fencing                                  km           4,450        2,087         4,900         1,690         1,970         679         11,320       4,456             15             700
Water Points                             No.           1,000         863           730           876            200        241          1,930       1,980              5             100
Corrals:
Constructions                         No.             83          345           250           957           100        431             433       1,733             -             -
Restoration                           No.             100          69           -             -             -           -              100          69             -              -
Houses                                   No.             -           -              290          300            185        191            475         491             -              -
Sheds                                    No.             -           -             250           216           100          86             350        302             -              -
Cattle Dips                              No.              75         345            -            -              -          -                75        345             -              -
Scales                                   No.             250         258             25           52            -          -               275        310              5              30
Machinery:
Tractors                                 No.             125         539             87          505             43        249             255      1,293             15             200
Ploughs (three discs)                    No.              50          26            -            -              -          -                50         26             10)
Fertilizer and Seeders                   No.             300         237            -            -              -          -               300        237             10)
Disc Harrows                             No.             175         155             37          38             -          -               212        193             10)             70
Mowers                                   No.             300         192            -            -              -          -               300        192             10)
Cattle:
Breeding Heifers                          '000 head       13       1,342             54        5,412             33      3,419             100    10,173              -              _
Bulls                                    '000 head         3       1,500              4        2,076              2        847               9      4,423             -              -
Sub-Total                                                     -       16,786            -         19,839            -       10,273             -       46,898              14          6,600           93 
Contingency                                                    -        1,316           _           1,191           -           595            -         3,102             -             400           - x
Total                                                     -       18,102            -         21,030            -       10,868             -       50,000              14          7,000



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE
INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sun=ary of Estimated Project Costs
Estimated Technical Services Costs
Regional       Regional       Regional                              Foreign Exchange
Category                Project  I    Project II    Project III    CONDEPE         Total         Component
(-                        Us$ 'ooo -)  (%) (US$'000)
(a) Office administration;
technical services;
vehicles; office equip-
ment; consultants;
training                     0.400          0.500           0.430         0.500       1.830       17       300
(b) Research:
Field investigations
and trials; consultants      0.040          0.040           0.040         0.030       0.150       30         50
(c)  Marketing study                 -              -               -          0.020       0.020       70         20
Total                   0.440          0.540           0.470         0.550       2.000       19       370
Nee2= 1
November 24, 1972



ANNEX 8
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE
INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Consolidated
Ranchers                               Technical          Project
Incremental          Incremental         Services            Cash
Year                Cash Flow               Taxes           Expenditures        Flow
(--                      NCr$ million ------------)------------
1                   (78)                  -                    -              (78)
2                  (178)                   1                  (2)            (179)
3                   (95)                   5                   -              (90)
4                   (20)                   9                   -              (11)
5                    44                   15                   -               59
6                    89                   23                   -              112
7                   113                   29                   -              142
8                   128                  32                    -              160
9                   122                  32                    -              154
10                   117                  32                    -              149
11                   116                  32                    -              148
12                   117                  32                    -              149
13-19                 116                   32                   -              148
20                   250                   32                   -              282
21                   314                   32                   -              346
The economic rate of return is about 23%.
November 24, 1972






IBRD 10067
To Ub.rl    Ardxa      To B~.I
CAR/8BEAN SEA                             52                                           48-                     Aroo                    JULY 1972
S   ,._. }> _  )t   M  A T O..,                            ...o.,.,.MI   N A S    Hoion
B     R A Z          Campo  ran e
k  -         /     \  ~~~G   R    O    :S  S  O 0                                                                                              '
UTH  'AMERIC
)~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                         Ar......
Sb.         rd .Presidente Epitdcio
rTlANTIC
OCEAN                                                                                                                     .........
0 / P A R A N XA / , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......                                                   ..................... 
J ANEIRO
olite                           ~~~~~~~SAO PAULO
legre                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~240-
24'                                                                                                                    NO
A ~  /                                           INTERIM  SECON   7LVETOKTROEC
. XSf oyn                                                  4io +\Poongu
fi ..................... j;gcevelandia  ~nil
\,\SANTA                       1O                                      PROJECARINA  AREA
/ ltoperiXJ$ t +!tioi  C  fE A N
_ tX , S . /. ;f., ~~~~CT;a^; 6s/.                                , Florionopolis
I 9 a   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXESO   TO/ ORIGINAL  PROJECT  AREA
328
-32       1   49, o . ? SJ,>RIO GRANDE ................             ....    STATE BOUNDARIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...   SATEBONDAIE
.      4sn/Xxf                                          o         loo~~~~~~~~~~~~~10    200   300   400    SO0
BILO ZTIL
gui                                            7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~he boundarinet shown on this snap do rtot
56                                                                                        48'  insply endortaessnt or atCCEptean  by the 
''A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol arsalisajlos






IBRD 10104
512-        ' 't 48o                               : -4.  JULY 1972
*t.i. .<   <BRAZIL
B RAZiU                 INTERIM  SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
REGIONS U & mII
UTiAMERICA
iii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i'
O [ . <. ytArers Shown .:1-
on Mop
b zI SH A Jrz A tXtf/C                                            < ~~~~~~G   O 0       A  S            b>
A rLA NTIC
OCEAN
.Urutagua
<_  :-'--'--' 9'/<)':LS 16-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
The boundaries h n th.s tessd, \  nt
.  .  {  _   <  .GOIANIA               iply endorreinen, or acceptance lv tht
.  t                                           kuoio                      )S            '    a,  ,jitS~~~~Arauoi
.   \                            '                0 ~ ~~~~~~            ~        ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ VerrJe  ,.
BOLIV IA                      M    A  T  O                                          
'  '  ' CorunnbrzoG             R            S        S O     "..... ..                 ;i UberlcJndio\
--s ! V X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                                                                        :                                   .  Bel
-70-            U.        +                                                                1=                   =          erob                                Ho,imnt
AMPO  GRANDE                                                                 M     I  N                        2
Aquidauan o.p
)   S               ~         ~          7~   <   Soo Jolie c><>S_ .ret                  G   E- R  A  I S 
PARtAGUAY                                                                                                                i6eiroe Perto
p I= M  t' hL                                                        coe >
Porio MisrlinliRioor
Bela Visto                           se Pves,dene
'.~~,*****   S...<,         Dourodos                            d                    .ru
- Ponto~c   Poro                                                ss  ~   -_~G<ismi,.......................... 
=   ROADS    . . . - i              .,/         ~~~~~~Moringo o   on ri.a                                                     _.       i o    oe
'Rio de Janeiro
RAILWAYS       --   - -          -     ;/       
. - - - t ~Foz Do Iguap-ofu,/,5ntos                                                                                         24--
INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES
- -   STATE BOUNDARIES
P           A    R     A     N     A                 ......
0       PROJECT  HEADQUATERS
REGION  AREA 1              i. 1                                 /                                                    A  N
..  ----- .--*......                    OCEA  N
REGION  AREA  mI                                           .
-     0       50     100            200             300
SNTA  CATARINA                                                               4ILE



