Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3497 
Operation Name 
BR - RIO GRANDE DO SUL FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Sub-national government administration (60%);General public 
administration sector (40%) 
Project ID 
P106767 
Borrower(s) 
STATE GOVERNMENT OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL 
Implementing Agency 
STATE SECRETARY OF FINANCE OF RIO GRANDE DO 
SUL 
Date PID Prepared 
November 29, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 31, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 31, 2008 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Located in the extreme south of Brazil, Rio Grande do Sul is the fourth largest state economy in the 
country and the fifth largest in population. The state’s GDP in 2006 was R$ 156 billion (US$ 72 billion). 
Rio Grande do Sul has enjoyed high socio-economic indicators in the Brazilian context. However, 
despite the privileged position that Rio Grande do Sul holds in the Brazilian context, economic and 
social development has deteriorated since the mid-1990’s. Rio Grande do Sul’s participation in national 
GDP fell from 8.1 percent in 1996 to 7.4 percent in 2006. In addition, state growth has been more 
erratic, with large expansions followed by strong recessions, mainly linked to climatic effects on water 
resources (rainfall) and exchange rate movements.  
Public finances difficulties seem to be a relevant factor behind the poor economic and social 
performance of Rio Grande do Sul in the last decade. Continuous fiscal deficits and explosive 
indebtedness have significantly hampered the ability of Rio Grande do Sul to foster economic growth 
and to continuously pursue the high welfare standards enjoyed by its population in the past. RGS debt of 
roughly R$ 33.7 billion (or 254 percent of state net current revenues) is among the highest in Brazil. 
Debt service is projected to consume 15-17 percent of net real revenue per annum in the medium term.  
The lack of fiscal space has eroded the government’s ability to attenuate the high volatility of economic 
growth with counter-cyclical policies. Moreover, firms are looking outside Rio Grande do Sul to 
conduct their business and skilled residents are increasingly emigrating. On the social front, the fiscal 
crisis has deteriorated the quality of public services delivery, which explains why quality of life 
indicators are beginning to recede relative to the rest of Brazil.  
The development objective of this proposed operation is to assist the government of Rio Grande do Sul 
(RGS) to attain a fiscally sustainable path in the medium term leading to enhanced economic growth and 
development. The goal of achieving fiscal sustainability to enhance economic growth prospects for RGS 
is based on the following principles: 
·
A
shared understanding
 of
the fiscal and debt challenges facing RGS; 
·
State ownership
 of the program: measures under the program come from the authorities own 
initiatives as delineated through its Multi-Year Plan (2008-2011) or are designed in collaboration 
with Bank staff, following technical analyses; and  
·
Full integration 
of
the package of measures affecting fiscal and debt outcomes and projections. 
Page  2
Rationale for Bank Involvement
 .
The Bank’s Brazil  Country Assistance Strategy for 2004-2007 (and 
the forthcoming Brazil Country Partnership Strategy, 2008-2011) is based on a foundation of sound 
macroeconomic management and fiscal reforms, efficient public sector management and good 
governance with pillars focusing on a more equitable, sustainable and competitive Brazil. This proposed 
operation would reinforce Brazil’s federated public sector to further strengthen macroeconomic 
conditions, especially by shoring up the fiscal situation in the fourth largest state in the nation. In this 
manner, the proposed operation is fully consistent with the CAS/CPS foundation and the objectives of 
the Bank’s strategy agreed with Brazil. Moreover, Bank support must meet the criteria for engagement 
with states, which is being agreed with Brazil under the forthcoming Country Partnership Strategy 
(CPS) for 2008-2011. For example, the Bank will only engage with states that have approval to borrow 
following national procedures (such as formal requests to, and approval from an inter-Ministerial 
committee) and formal evaluation and approval from the STN.  
The Bank’s engagement thus far has been to identify the reasons that led to the difficult fiscal 
circumstances and to analyze with the authorities possible areas of fiscal reform and debt restructuring 
that could reverse the current fiscal trajectory. Thus far, reviews and analysis in the areas of pensions, 
debt restructuring, public sector management, and overall fiscal policies, have led to a set of possible 
measures that could contribute to setting RGS on a fiscally sustainable path. The proposed operation 
would pursue these activities and provide both financial support for debt restructuring operations and 
technical assistance in critical areas leading to fiscal sustainability for growth. To the extent that Bank 
support can contribute to solving this fiscal sustainability puzzle, these efforts may also provide some 
demonstrative clues to improve the fiscal circumstances in other Brazilian states. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
To achieve the overall objective of this proposed operation which is to support the government of Rio 
Grande do Sul (RGS) to attain a fiscally sustainable path in the medium term leading to enhanced 
economic growth and development, four components of debt and fiscal reforms designed to culminate in 
a
sustainable fiscal path were designed. These components encompass:   
·
Debt restructuring: the purpose of this component is to smooth the profile of debt service 
generated by the 
extra-limite
 debt, reduce the debt stock in net present value terms, increase debt 
duration, and improve the state’s cash flow.   
·
Fiscal adjustment - revenue enhancement and expense control: the debt restructuring component 
alone be insufficient to achieve fiscal sustainability. Fiscal sustainability will require a strong, 
consistent, and continuous fiscal adjustment effort directed to enhance revenue and curb the 
increasing trend in current expense. 
·
Social security reforms: the DPL operation would support the state government’s adjustment 
efforts to control social security deficits which are the one of the most relevant sources of fiscal 
disequilibrium.  
·
Public sector management reforms: the enhancement of the efficiency of expenditure 
management is a necessary condition both to guarantee the sustainability of fiscal adjustment 
efforts and to improve the provision of public goods and services. The activities under this 
component will focus on enhancing planning capacity of the state government and establishing a 
results-based management model. 
When combined as a package, immediate and medium-term fiscal saving and improved debt parameters 
would ameliorate the fiscal and debt crisis facing Rio Grande do Sul.  
 
Page  3
3. Preliminary description 
 
The program would support fiscal reforms and debt restructuring operations designed to move RGS to a 
sustainable fiscal path. These measures would include pension reforms, revenue enhancements, 
spending restraint, and public sector management reforms. Combining these measures with debt 
restructuring operations, and setting the data, including projections based on these measures, into an 
internationally recognizable fiscal framework, will simplify the analysis of medium-term fiscal 
sustainability. 
The operation would likely comprise a two-tranche adjustment loan, totaling US$1 billion. The first 
tranche of the adjustment loan would be conditioned on a series of fiscal adjustment measures, social 
security and public sector reforms undertaken or currently underway. The second tranche would have an 
estimated disbursement date at 2010, subject to subsequent reform conditions being met.   
Institutional Arrangements: The operation would have counterparts in two state secretariats, broadly 
reflecting the main components of the proposed operation: Finance (SEFAZ), Planning and 
Management (SEPLAG). In addition, the state secretariats of Administration, Social Development and 
Justice and Education will also play a relevant role in the implementation of the measures directed to 
resume fiscal sustainability. The primary coordinator would most likely be SEFAZ. 
Loan Components: 
Debt restructuring: within this category the loan resources will be directed to the repayments of principal 
of the state debts that are (a) the most expensive, (b) that promote debt service uneven profile and (c) 
that generate greater net present value gains.  
Fiscal Adjustment: Within this category the project concept envisages actions relating to (a) reducing the 
ratio of consolidated net debt to net current revenues, (b) generating positive operating and primary 
balances, (c) increasing tax collection, (d) reducing personnel spending as a fraction of net current 
revenues and, (e) increasing the ratio of investment to net current revenue. 
Social security reform: within this component the project will support reforms directed to the (a) 
increase of social security contributions, (b) reduction of social security benefits and (c) reduction of 
medium and long run current social security deficits through changes in state legislation and/or 
administrative measures. 
Public sector management: the DPL operation will support activities directed to the (a) enhancement of 
planning capacity; c) increase service delivery efficiency, including in social and environmental 
programs, (d) introduction of results based management of programs and human resources, and (e) 
improvement of service delivery through the partnership with non-governmental providers of services 
through 
OSCIPs (Organização da Sociedade Civil de Interesse Público)
,
Civil Society Organizations 
with Public Interest in social areas. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
Not Applicable.  The proposed project does not involve any activities that are likely to have any 
environmental impacts. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Page  4
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1.000 
 Total 
1.000 
 
Page  5
6. Contact point 
Contact: Fernando 
Blanco 
   Eduardo 
Somensatto 
Title: 
 Economist 
LSCPE 
   Lead 
Economist 
LSCPE 
Tel: 
 55-61- 
3329-1038 
   1 
-202 
–
473-5275 
Fax: 
 55-61- 
3329-1000 
    
Email:  
fblanco@worldbank.org
esomensatto@worldbank.org 
Location: 
The World Bank 
 
 
 
The World Bank 
SCN Quadra 2 Lote A, 303 
 
 
1818 H Street N.W 
Brasilia, DF. 70712-900 
 
 
Washington, DC. 20433 (I4-405) 
 
