                                                                                                       94065
A Fiscal Turnaround in Brazil’s State of Rio Grande do Sul                                             April 16, 2012




 A Fiscal Turnaround in Brazil's State of Rio Grande do Sul


Overview
Drawing upon IBRD financial and technical support, the Brazilian state of Rio Grande do Sul
restructured its debt, generating savings of R$379 million up to December 2010. The state also
improved its tax administration and expenditure controls. The state government was able to
turn its finances around from a negative operating balance of R$473 million in 2007 to a
positive figure of R$1.497 million, and increase investments from 6 percent of net revenues in
2007 to 9 percent in 2010.


Challenge
Brazil’s state of Rio Grande do Sul had a long history of
                                                                    More Results
fiscal mismanagement. Excessive expenditures and
generosity in granting tax exemptions produced budget

                                                                    R$271
deficits over many years until 2006. By the time IBRD began
working with the state in 2008, the Rio Grande do Sul fiscal
situation was regarded as the worst among Brazilian states.

                                                                    million
The state was failing to comply with Brazilian fiscal
responsibility legislation, and its troubled fiscal situation had
translated into deteriorated public services, and poor
                                                                    is the total savings reaped by
economic performance.                                               the procurement office



Approach
An IBRD loan was designed to support the state
government’s effort to turn around the fiscal situation in the      US$1.1
                                                                    billion
state. The project recognized the efforts undertaken by the
government, especially with regards to the 2007 emergency
fiscal adjustment plan, and it also sponsored more structural
measures that guaranteed longer-term fiscal sustainability. In      is the amount IBRD supported
addition, IBRD used its supervision resources to provide            the state

technical assistance to the state, helping the government to
achieve the proposed results. Since this was the first debt
restructuring operation in Brazil following the Fiscal              LEARN MORE
Responsibility Law and the 1997 state debt bailout, (Federal
                                                                     Rio Grande do Sul Finance
Initiative) IBRD Treasury support was paramount to the
                                                                     Secretariat fiscal transparency
operation. Its innovative and tailor-made repayment profile          website
was key to smoothing the highly volatile debt repayment
profile of the state, and to secure the approval of, and a
guarantee, from the federal government.


Results
The Rio Grande do Sul Fiscal Sustainability for Growth Program’s major results are
summarized below:

       The state was able to turn around its fiscal situation and greatly improve its fiscal
       management, as reflected by the declining debt to net revenue ratio (from 2.48 in 2007
       to 2.14 in 2010) and increased primary balance (from R$967 million in 2007 to R$1.583
       million in 2010).

       With support from IBRD, the state disclosed detailed information on tax expenditures,
       becoming the most transparent state in Brazil in this regard.

       The government implemented more modern procurement alternatives. The improvement
       in fiscal management created more resource predictability, allowing for better purchase
       planning, which in turn reduced uncertainty among suppliers. As a result, the price paid
       for some items such as livestock vaccination was reduced from R$1.56 per shot to a
       range between R$0.76 to R$0.86 per shot. The total savings reaped by the procurement
       office amounted to R$271 million.

       The loan proceeds also were used to pay back expensive debt contracts, with large
       payments due in 2008 and 2009, saving R$379 million (1.6 percent of GDP) up to
       December 2010.



Bank Contribution
IBRD supported the state with a two-tranche development policy loan (DPL) in the amount of
US$1.1 billion. The first tranche was disbursed in September 2008 in the amount of US$650
million. The second tranche of US$450 million was disbursed in July 2010.


Partners
The project was financed entirely by IBRD.


Moving Forward
The new government that took office in 2011 benefited from the improved fiscal situation and
has reinforced the state’s commitment to fiscal rectitude. Furthermore, in recognition of the
state’s solid fiscal performance, the National Treasury Secretariat allowed the state to initiate
procedures for contracting new loans for the first time since the debt renegotiation contract
was signed in 1998.


Beneficiaries
The people of the state of Rio Grande do Sul as a result of reduced government waste and
mismanagement and increased access to better public services.
