CIRCULATiNG Copy
FILE         COPY                 IF E RETURNE TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1425a-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
-ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
FOR THE SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 13, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00                     = 2.07 Ethiopia Dollars (Eth.$)
Eth.$ 1.00                   = us$ o.h8
Eth.$ 1 million              = US$ 480,000
Government of Ethiopia
Fiscal Year
July 8 - July 7



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
FOR A
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Empire of Ethiopia for the equivalelnt of
U.S.$12.0 on standard IDA terms to help finance a second phase of a
project for agricultural development in Wolamo. Part of the proceeds of
the credit (U.S.$1.8 million) would be relent to the Agricultural and
Industrial Development Bank for 15 years, including 5 years of grace,
with interest at 7-1/4% per annum.
PART I THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, "Recent Economic Performance and Future Prospects in
Ethiopia," Report No. 9-ET, (R73-162) was circulated on June 15, 1973.
An economic updating mission was carried out in December 1973. A basic
economic mission is scheduled for FY 1975. Annex I contains country data.
3.        Ethiopia is classified by the U.N. as one of the 25 least devel-
oped countries of the world. The per capita income was only US$80 in 1971
and income has been growing slowly in recent years. The population is pre-
dominantly rural and depends on agriculture for its income. The agriculture
sector has contributed 50 to 60 percent of GDP and over 90 percent of exports
in recent years. The leading exports are coffee, which accounts for approxi-
mately 50 percent of the total, hides and skins, pulses and oilseeds. Manu-
factoring, including handicrafts and small industries, contributes only 10
percent of GDP and the output of the mining sector is negligible.
4.        Lying between the heart of Africa and the Red Sea, Ethiopia has
a total land area of slightly more than 1.2 million km2,almost twice the
size of Kenya. The country consists of a central highland mass with rug-
ged mountains and precipitous ravines surrounded by lowlands, some of which
are barren deserts. The extremely difficult topography which in former
times provided a natural barrier to invasion is today an obstacle to in-
ternal transportation, communication and economic development.
5.        An estimated 85 to 90 percent of the people are subsistence farm-
ers living in isolated rural villages. Although some large commercial farms
do exist, most farming units are small. A recent survey in one province
showed that 92 percent of the cultivated holdings were of less than one
hectare.  Agricultural productivity is in general very low.   Methods of
cultivation used by most farmers have changed little over many centuries,
the soils in many highland areas are seriously depleted from prolonged
overgrazing and overcropping, and the prevailing systems of land tenure
generally do not provide adequate incentives for investments which would
raise farmers' productivity. As a consequence, there has been little or



-2-
no improvement in rural living standards in recent years. The development
of agriculture is also inhibited by the lack of transportation.
There are few secondary and rural feeder roads, and perhaps three-
fourths of Ethiopia's farms are more than one-half day's walking distance
from a road. This means that transport costs are often too high to make
it profitable for subsistence farmers to expand production for the market.
Difficult though the development of agriculture may be, the lack of
other resources per force means that progress in developing the Ethiopian
Economy rests almost entirely on developing agriculture.
6.        The Ethiopian population of approximately 26.5 million (mid-1973
estimate) is heavily concentrated in the youngest age groups, with 45 per-
cent under the age of 15. As a result of this age distribution, the
proportion of the population which is econcmically active is relatively low
and the dependency ratio is correspondingly high. Average life expectancy
at birth is only 39. The urban population presently comprises less than
10 percent of the total but it is growing at an estimated rate of 6.5 per-
cent per annum. At this rate the urban population will rise from 2.3
million in 1970 to almost 6 million by 1985. While there are no available
data on employment, it is evident that opp,)rtunities in the towns have
not kept pace with the supply of workers w .th the result that urban
unemployment is growing. There is also significant underemployment in
both the rural and urban areas. Fragmentary evidence suggests that mal-
distribution of income has increased in recent years. Although data
on wages are scanty, they suggest that the incomes of agricultural laborers
and unskilled workers in general have been virtually stagnant at a low
level.  The slow growth of agriculture where *the majority of the people
are engaged, the unchanging rural wage, and rising unemployment are indi-
cations of a worsening of income distribution.
7.        While enrollment in government primary schools has risen at an
average rate of 11 percent per annum over the last 15 years, only about 20
percent of primary school age children (ages 7-12) were enrolled in 1973-74.
Only about 5 percent of the secondary school age population attends school,
and the adult literacy rate is estimated to be only 7 percent. Inequality
of educational opportunities between rural and urban areas remains a seri-
Ous problem and achievements in the special adult literacy program lag
substantially behind targets. Thus, despite creditable efforts on the part
of the government, overall educational attainment remains low in comparison
with the rest of Africa and the developing world in general. Hopes for
more rapid and far-reaching development in education are based on the 1972
Education Sector Review that was carried out by the Ethiopian Government
with Bank support.  This report calls for a departure from the present
academic, *rban-oriented pattern of education to one that wi-l emphasize
education for rural development, and thus be more relevant to the socio-
economic needs of the country.



-3-
8.        Ethiopia's First and Second Development Plans gave priority to
the development of infrastructure and to the establishmlent of manufacturing
industries (mainly government financed) based on import substitution. The
Thire Five Year Plan (FY 1969-73) emphasized more balanced development of
agriculture and industry, and the Fourth Five Year Plan (FY 1975-79) is
expected to give increased attention to agriculture, rural education, and
to other activities such as feeder roads which will directly support agri-
cultural development.   During the past twc decades, the government has made
efforts to accelerate the pace of developnent by controlling expenditures
on defense, increasing expenditures on edu_ation, introducing some new
taxes, including an agricultural income tax, and improving the effectiveness
of the public service. However, these efforts are only a beginning, and
progress to date has generally fallen short of objectives. Institutions
are changing slowly, and the modest pace of institutional change has in-
hibited economic growth. Additional constraining factors have been the
balance of payments (slow growth of export earnings and limited foreign
capital inflows), inadequate levels of domestic savings, and low absorptive
capacity.
9.        During the period 1961-1971, the GDP grew at an average rate of
4.7 percent per year in real terms. However, during the first four years
of the Third Five Year Plan (FY 1969-72), the average rate of growth was
only 4.1 percent, well below the target of 6 percent. With population
growing at an estimated 2.4 percent per year, growth in per capita incomes
has been low, varying from 2.5 percent per year in the early 1960's to 2
percent or less in recent years (as compared to the Third Plan target of
3.5 percent). It was against this background of sluggish growth that the
Government decided in 1971 to extend the Third Plan by one year to July
1974 and to reduce the target rate of growth to 5.5 percent.
10.       A principal cause of slow growth in GDP during the first four
years of the Third Plan was the slow expansion of agricultural production
and export earnings, particuarly from coffee. During 1968-71, export
earnings increased by only 5.6 percent per year compared to the Plan target
of 8 percent. With export prices rising at 3.7 percent per year, export
volume was growing at a disappointing rate of less than 2 percent. In
1972 and 1973, the picture was brighter, due to higher prices for Ethiopia's
traditional exports of coffee, hides and skins, oilseeds and pulses, and
to a lesser extent, to increases in the volume of goods exported. Total
exports of goods and nonfactor services increased from $190 million in
1971 to $247 million in 1972 and to $347 million in 1973, while imports
rose more slowly (from $232 million in 1971 to $237 million in 1972 and
to $278 million in 1973) due to the sluggishness of the domestic economy.
Largely because of these trade surpluses, net foreign ex-change reserves
increased from $51 million at the end of 1971 to slightly over $200
million at the end of 1973. The medium range balance of payments forecast
was favorable until the recent increases in petroleum prices and the
attendant increases in the cost of fertilizers, chemicals, and other
intermediate goods. While it appears that Ethiopia will be able to meet
the added cost of petroleum imports in the short run, despite an increase



-4-
from about $16 million in 1971 and 1972 to an estimated $50-60 million
in 1974, the longer run picture is uncertain.   The latest commodity
price forecasts imply that Ethiopia's export prices will rise by 116
percent between 1973 and 1985 while her import prices will rise by 176
percent. This substantial deterioration in the terms of trade could
lead to a reversal of recent current account: surpluses. On the other
hand, supply response to continued high levels of export prices coud.d
result in a sustained growth in the value of total exports. In this
regard, the agricultural sector survey report, No. PA - 143a (R73-77) of
January 15, 1973, concluded that Ethiopia's potential to increase such
agricultural exports as meat products, hides and skins, pulses and
oilseeds is favorable. There are also possibilities for exports of
selected manufactures if adequate incentives are created.
11.       Another reason for the disappointing growth performance of the
Ethiopian economy during the Third Plan has been the failure to reach
investment goals for both the public and private sectors. The investment
rate increased from 12 percent in 1961 to 14.5 percent in 1968, but has
since fallen slightly. Similarly, the share of domestic savings in GDP
increased from 11 percent in 1961 to 12.5 percent in 1968, but has fallen
below 12 percent in more recent years. Central government capital expendi-
tures averaged Eth$105 million over the first five years of the plan, as
compared with an initial plan objective of Eth$190 million a year. Despite
this shortfall, the government has made a commendable effort to increase
its investment budget, which has risen from Eth$65 million in FY69 to
Eth$129 million in FY73.
12.       The public investment program has been expanding somewhat faster
than budget savings, which rose from Eth$35 million in FY69 to Eth$86
million in FY73. As a result the proportion of capital expenditures
financed by this source has fallen slightly, and the dependence of the
central government on foreign borrowing has been increasing. Net foreign
loans and credits accounted for 35 percent of capital expenditures in
FY71 and FY72, and were expected to finance approximately 50 percent of
the capital budget in FY74. The sources of public capital inflows to
Ethiopia during the past decade are shown on page 4 of Annex I. These
data indicate that the Bank/IDA share of this flow has increased from about
25 percent in 1962-65 to about 35 percent in 1966-69 and to about 40 percent
in 1970-72. To assist Ethiopia in obtaining additional external assistance,
the Bank has sponsored a Consultative Group of aid donors. The second
meeting of the Group, under the Bank's Chairmanship, was held in July 1973.
13.       Although Ethiopia has not reached its economic targets during
the current development plan period, economic performance has been
relatively good considering the constraints which the country faces.
Particularly noteworthy have been the increased levels of budgetary
savings and of developmental expenditures which have been attained despite
the slow growth of GDP. At the same time, Ethiopia needs and deserves
as much external financial support as can be provided. The country has
attracted only modest amounts of private capital, and therefore depends



- 5 -
heavily on public capital inflows. Ualike many other African countries
which were formerly dependent, Ethiopia has no traditional source of
technical and financial help. Annual gross public capital inflows have
been only about US$1.32 per capita over the past five years. Very few
developing countries receive so little aid on a per capita basis. For
this reason, a relatively high level of per capita assistance from the
Bank Group is justified. Because of Ethiopia's poverty, it is desirable
that future iaflows should be provided to the greatest extent possible
on concessionary terms. Furthermore, because Ethiopia's domestic re-
sources fall far short of the amounts needed to ensure reasonable growt;h,
it is appropriate that those who provide external resources should cover
a large proportion of the cost of projects, including local costs. The
Bank Group is presently financing an average of 75 percent of project
costs in Ethiopia.
14.       Considering Ethiopia's poverty, Bank Group lending should be
provided on IDA terms to the greatest extent possible.   The debt service
ratio for Ethiopia was 11.5 percent in 1970, but because of the strong
export performance of the past two years, the ratio has declined to
below 8 percent in 1973. If the external capital needed to support a
growth rate of GDP of 6 percent were to be obtained on conventional
terms, the debt service ratio would probably rise to 10 percent by 1980.
Ethiopia can, therefore, support some Bank lending, and particularly in
the light of the limited availability of IDA funds and the small amount
of assistance expected from other sources, such lending would be both
desirable and appropriate.
15.       Presently a serious crought and famine situation exists in
Ethiopia. While Tigre and Wollo Provinces have thus far been hardest
hit, it is becoming clear that the drought is more widespread than
previously thought, and has dealt the country a serious economic blow.
To date, it has not been possible to quantify the economic impact, or to
project the effect on the development effort. The effects are, however,
unquestionably grave. With adequate rainfall and a maximum effort, it
will take perhaps as long as three to five years for agriculture to reach
pre-drought levels of production4
16.       In recent months, there have been political and economic dis-
turbances in Ethiopia, resulting in the resignation of the former
Government at the end of February. Riots over the rising cost of living
and wage and salary demands have forced the newly appointed Government
to reduce certain indirect taxes, to introduce price controls on food-
stuffs and other basic commodities, to raise the minimum wage by approx-
imately 200 percent, and to grant substantial pay increases to Government
employees, including the police, armed forces and teachers. It is not
entirely clear to what extent the recent political events demonstrate a
demand for fundamental social reform or only discontent over the immedi-
ate economic issues of prices and wages. Nor is it clear whether the
peasants, who are the mass of the people,,have formed or articulated



- 6-
political demands. It is evident, nevertheless, that the Government is
treating the new situation as an opportunity for change, and is attempting
to taka the initiative to promote land, education, and other social reforms,
and to accelerate economic development. The present leaders of the military,
who are reported to be from the lower ranks, have expressed their intention
to support the cabinet and to give it an ipportunity to effect its program.
Realistically, however, the Government's .bility to enact reform and speed
development is limited by Ethiopia's limited resources, some of which are
being diverted to meet the pay and other concessions the Government was
forced to give to the armed forces, teachers and other striking elements
and by the fact that the achievement of significant increases in produc-
tivity income cannot be realized quickly. Thus, it remains to be seen
whether this Government will be able to accelerate the pace of m.odetnization
and development, or enhance the prospects for it, sufficiently to win
the confidence of the people. It seems fair to say that although the
present situation contains the risk that further turbulance may disrupt
effective government and normal economic activity, there may well be
emerging a situation more conducive to economic and soc-ial progress than
has prevailed hitherto.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
17.       From 1950 to the present, Bank Group lending in Ethiopia has to-
talled $266 million, comprised of fifteen IDA credits totalling $158 million
abd twelve Bank loans totalling $109 million.   Additionally, the IFC has made
five commitments in Ethiopia totalling $15.8 million. Well over one-third of
the amount of lending ($102.5 million) was committed in the last two years.
In addition to the substantial increase in the size of its operations in
the last two years, the Ban; Group has softened its terms to Ethiopia; all
but $10.8 million of FY 72's $49.5 million program and all of FY 73's $53
million program were IDA credits.
18.       Through 1969, our help concentrated primarily on assisting the
construction of trunk roads, power and telecommunication facilities. In
the late 1960's, our program shifted In emphasis to agriculture and educa-
tion, and in the past four years, we have made seven credits for agricul-
tural development totalling $60.2 million ($43 million in FY 73) and two
credits for education totalling $19.5 million. In addition, in 1972,
we made a $17 million credit for transportation with emphasis on the
construction of agricultural feeder roads. This program reflects the
increased opportunity for agricultural lending brought about by improved
sectoral knowledge, and the heavier emphasis on agriculture and education
in the Government's priorities. This shift has been greatly assisted by
the Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA), which has played a
major role in project identification and preparation in the agriculture
sector.
19.       While the necessity for Parliamentary ratification tends to
cause delays in meeting the conditions of effectiveness, implementation



-7-
is generally good and there are no major implementation problems. Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1974, and notes on the execution of on-going
projects.
20.       In addition to its lending program, the Bank is pursuing a number
of activities to support the Government's development strategy. As already
mentioned, a mission visited Ethiopia to make a comprehensive study of the
agriculture sector. The Ethiopian Government, with IDA assistance, under-
took a fundamental review of the education sector to enable it to design a
new strategy for educational development. The Bank is executing agency for
the UNDP project which is providing a team of experts to help the Govern-
ment in improving its planning, and the Bank has supplied advisors in proj-
ect identification and preparation to the Planning Commission and the Minis-
try of Agriculture.
21.       Because Ethiopia has no traditional sources of development assis-
tance, a relatively high level of per capita assistance from the Bank
Group is justified. Lending to Ethiopia increased during FY72-74 and
further expansion of the lending program is planned for the future.
Since the economy is essentially agricultural and because agriculture offers
the greatest opportunities for development and for achieving improved income
dis;tribution and employment, the main thrust of our lending program will be
in that sector. A second sector of priority is the education sector where,
as a result of the IDA assisted sector review, the Government is planning
major investment as part of a program to change the structure of the system
to make education more relevant to development and more equitably available.
Given the inadequate infrastructure of the country, and the low level of
foreign and domestic capital available for investment, we shall also contin-
ue to provide some assistance to the development of other sectors, and to
investment in the infrastructure which is necessary to support development.
In order to relieve the constraint caused by Ethiopia's limited capacity to
prepare and implement projects, especially in education and agriculture,
we intend to continue providing technical assistance to beneficiary insti-
tutions so that they will be able to utilize larger inflows of assistance.
In our lending for infrastructure, we plan to continue lending to such in-
stitutions as the Imperial Highway Authority (IHA), the Imperial Board of
Telecommunications of Ethiopia (IBTE), and the Ethiopian Electric Light and
Power Authority (EELPA). These are institutions with which the Bank has
worked for some years and which now have substantial capacity for channelling
resources into development programs.
22.       The FY 74 lending program consists of a credit in the amount of
$21.4 million for a telecormunications project approved in January, the
proposed project, and the drought rellief project being presented to the
Executive Directors at the same time. For FY 75 and FY 76, there is a
sizable pipeline of projects at various stages of preparation. Negotia-
tions have been completed for a $9.5 million credit for a Lower Adabo
Development Project. Several of the upcoming projects wil1 be follow-ups
to ongoing projects and others will be breaking new ground. Included in the
first category will be a third livestock project, a sixth highway project,



-8-
follow-up credits for l:he Humera, and Coffee projects and for the Agri-
cultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) and the second tranche
of the Fifth Telecommunications Project. Included in the second category
are proposals for a grain storage and marketing project, and several
regional agricultural projects. The education sector is another priority
for Bank lending and we hope to present a fourth education project for
your consideration in the next year.
23.       During 1970-72, the Bank and IDA contributed 39 percent of
gross inflows of official loans. This share is expected to increase
substantially during the next few years as amounts disbursed under Bank
loans and IDA credits rise. As of December 31, 1972, the Bank/IDA share
of total public debt disbursed and outstanding was 42.9 percent, and
the Bank/IDA share of total public debt service was 30.5 percent.
Because of the relatively low levels of assistance expected from bi-
lateral donors, Bank Group debt outstanding as a percent of all debt
outstanding is expected to rise to 50-55 percent by 1980, and debt
service payments to the Bank Group will increase to approximately 35
percent of total debt service by the same year. As noted earlier,
however, the debt service ratio in 1973 was less than 8 percent and
is likely to remain below 10 percent in the 1980s.
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN ETHIOPIA
24.       About 90 percent of Ethiopia's population lives in rural areas
and derives its livelihood directly from agriculture. While there appears
to be a rough balance between food production and domestic consumption,
there has been little increase in agricultural productivity and therefore
per capita consumption has not risen. There is no assurance that with
the present levels of farm management and technology, production will
grow as rapidly as population. In the past the major constraints to
agricultural development in Ethiopia have been the low level of investment
in the sector, the unsatisfactory land tenure arrangements, lack of
credit for small-scale farmers, and inadequate storage, transport and
marketing facilities. Sustained economic and social progress in this
sector is dependent on modification of the land holding system which
would give tenant farmers more secure tenant rights, compensation for
improvements and a more equitable share of production. Legislation to
reform land tenancy has been before the Parliament since 1966, but the
Parliament, which represents predominantly the landed interests, has so
far refused to adopt the measure. In its recent policy statement the
new Cabinet has pledged itself to a more fundamental land reform as
contrasted with the earlier emphasizing tenancy reform alone. It has
indicated that holdings in excess of a 'treasonable" limit will be taken
over by the government and redistributed to those who work the land.
However, Parliamentary action on this vital issue is still uncertain.
We have in the past conveyed our serious concern about the unsatisfactory
land tenure situation in Ethiopia while simultaneously taking steps to
press for adequate tenure arrangements within projects assisted by us.



-9-
2'.       Despite these constraints, Ethiopian agriculture has favorable
prospects. Fortunately, there are fertile lands, favorable climates
and, importantly, an apparent readiness on the part of the large farm
population to accept innovations in production and marketing. Unfortunately,
lack of transport, insecure land tenure, low levels of investment, plus ex-
ternal factors, such as wide variations in coffee prices and -he closure of
the Suez Canal, have prevented the underlying potential from being realized.
26.       Ethiopia has a total land area of about 1.2 million km2 composed
of a central highland mass surrounded by lowlands. There are six basic
ecological regions among which topography, climate, soils, and natural
vegetation vary sharply with consequent variations in agricultural
potential. While there is no detailed map coverage nor land classification
information, it is estimated that approximately 9 percent of the land is
cultivated, approximately one-half is in permanent pasture, 21 percent
is barren desert or swamps, 10 percent is rivers and lakes, and 7 percent
of the land is forest.
Highland Agriculture
27.       Nearly 95 percent of the population is concentrated on small farms
in the highland region which produce the bulk of the national crop output
and maintain more than 50 percent of the cattle population. For the most
part, the highlands are densely populated and farm sizes are small with
average cultivated areas per holding varying from 1 to 2 ha. Thus, farming
is characterized by intensive cultivation of small-scale holdings which in
many cases do not absorb the labor of the farm family. About 70 percent of
the cropped area is in cereals with the rest mainly in oilseeds and pulses.
A large cattle herd is maintained in the highlands and much of the land is
suited to livestock; however, production and marketing methods are gener-
ally inefficient and offtake is' low, with cattle kept as draught animals,
for dairying, and as insurance or store of wealth.   While little agricul-
tural research has been completed, it appears that the highlands have the
potential for good yields for a wide variety of crops such as cereals,
pulses, oilseeds, fruit, vegetables, and livestock and dairy products.
Presently, however, yields are very low by international standards.
28.       In general, there is little unutilized land in the highlands, but
substantial potential can be realized through improving yield. Increased
crop yields are constrained by the following:
(i)  cultural practices are very inefficient:   plowing is done by
oxen and a wooden plow, threshing is done by treading with
oxen,; and planting, weeding and harvesting are done by hand;
(ii)  Outside of areas included in government-sponsored projects,
fertilizers and improved seeds are practically unknown;
(iii)  except for cereals where good research results are avail-
able, most plant varieties in use are poor performers;



(iv)  holdings are small and in many cases frag-mented;
(v)  more than half of Ethiopian farm families do not have
title to the land they work and a large proportion of
these do not have a leasehold on terms which provide
the recessary incentive to invest in land improvements
and undertake innovative practices;
(vi)  levels of public investmenit in agriculture are low and
the level of public service for agriculture is inadequate;
and
(vii) the marketing infrastructure is undeveloped and -Fragmented
and reduces returns to the farmer and increases the cosu to
the consumer.
Lowland Agriculture
29.       The lowlands surround the highlands, with the largest area in the
east, which is also the driest. At present the lowlands are u-sed by nomadic
pastoralists on an extensive basis, dictated by the limited availability of
water and keep for livestock. Livestock mortality is high, -roductivity
is low, and off-take rates of 4-6 percent reflect the subsistence nature
of the activity. Where rainfall is adequate for cultivation, endemic
malaria generally discourages aighland farmers. While there is potential
for development in the west and southwest lowlands, where spontaneous
development is taking place as malaria is brought under control, the
problems of communications and transport, insecure tenure and lack of
basic services inhibit development.
30.       The above observations need to be seen in historical perspective.
Progress has been made in recent years in laying the groundwork for growth
in agriculture. Twenty years ago there were only five Ethiopians working
in Ethiopia who had col:Lege degrees in agriculture. At that time there
were no facilities for agricuiltural research or extension, practically
no organized farm credit, few roads, very limited markets for farm
products and no distribution facilities for modern inputs.    In contrast,
today an agricultural college and three sub-professional agricultural
institutes are in full operation. The first public effort to provide
irrigation is about to be undertaken through the Ainibara project. The
experience of the ongoing comprehensive development   proJects, CADU
(Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit) supported by Sweden and WADU
(Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit) financed by IDA, has already been
used to design a program to provide minimum agricultural inputs which
seeks to capitalize on farmers' aspirations and their willingness and
capacity to improve their farming methods. During the first two plan
periods a start was also made on institutional development in agriculture.
The Awash Valley Authority (AVA) was set up, as was an animal health school;
various undertakings were begun in research, extension, cooperatives and
community development. A Grain Corporation was established, and the
Ministry of Land Reform and Administration was created.



The Project as Related to the Sector
31.       The Wolamo Awraja (District) which is the project area, includes
both high, densely populated plateau and very sparsely inhabited lowlands.
About three-fourths is in highlands and one-fourth in lowlands. Both the
amount and distribution of rainfall in the highlands are reliable and
adequate. The soil is well suited for peasant farming, provided erosion
is controlled. In the lowland area, rainfall is less reliable than in the
highlands, but most of the land is suitable for agriculture.
32.       The land tenure situation in Wolamo, as in the rest of Ethiopia,
is unsatisfactory and presents a constraint on attempts to modernize agri-
culture. The average holding is about 1.5 ha, but tenants - who constitute
about half of the farming population - cultivate an average of only 0.5 ha
and make rent payments to their landlords both in kind and cash plus some
labor contribution. Livestock is important in both hig'nland and lowland
areas of Wolamo, providing draft power and manure as well as food and the
major portion of the cash income. Mortality due to disease and malnutri-
tion is high, especially among young stock. There is virtually no common
grazing land.
33.       Thus, the Wolamo district contains in many respects the typical
problems confronting both highland and lowland agriculture in Ethiopia
discussed in paragraphs 27-29. Despite these fundamental difficulties,
owner operators as well as tenants can gain important benefits from a
soundly based comprehensive development program. While land reform would
greatly help, expected benefits under the proposed project in Wolamo
would be substantial even under the present land tenure system and
expected improvements in income of the tenants would be sufficient to
ensure their participation.
34.       The first Wolamo project (Credit No. 169-ET, approved on
October 21, 1969) was designed as a comprehensive agricultural development
project to address itself to some of the foregoing problems, with main
emphasis on the supply of agricltural inputs and credit. The success
of these efforts and the quickresponse of the farmers in utilizing
these services and dramatically increasing crop yield provided lessons
for designing projects for supply of essential inputs in other areas.
As already mentioned, experiences of the first project have enabled the
Government with assistance from IDA to recently embark on a minimum package
program designed to help a large number of small farmers with the supply
of essential agricultural inputs and related credit and supervision on a
low cost basis. The first Wolamo project also provided the necessary
ground work for expanding the project area and making available to the
farmers in Wolamo a more diversified program of rural development. The
proposed Second Wolamo Project is designed to provide further experience
in development of livestock services, soil conservation, water supplies,
roads and artisan training which would form the basis for development
in other areas.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       A report entitled "ETHIOPIA:   Appraisal of Second Wolamo
Agricultural Development Project No. 409-ET" is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. A credit and project summary
is provided in Annex III.
36.       The project was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, Ethiopia,
with the assistance of the Bank's Resident Mission in Eastern Africa. The
project was appraised in October/November 1973. Negotiations for the pro-
posed credit were held in Washington on May 8 through May 13, 1974.
The Ethiopian delegation was led by Ato Teferra Wolde-Semait, Head of
Finance, Credit and Investment Department, Ministry of Finance.
The First Project
37.       The proposed project is the second phase of the Wolamo Agricul-
tural Development Project which received financial assistance through an
IDA credit of US$3.5 million in 1969. The Wolamo District is in Sidamo
Province in the southern part of Ethiopia and has an area of about 3,180
sq. km. and a population of about 730,000. The first project included
improvement of crop production in two sub-districts of Wolamo involving
about 6,000 farmers and the settlement elsewhere in Wolamo District of
some 1,750 families on 6 ha farms in two settlement areas. The project
was implemented by the Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit (WADU) estab-
lished as a special unit within the Ministry of Agriculture. Implementa-
tion of the first project progressed well and project funds are now ex-
pected to be fully committed by mid-1974, about 18 months ahead of schedule.
The principal goals of the project have been achieved. The most significant
achievement of the first project has been the remarkable success of the
extension program which concentrated on the introduction of improved
inputs and included advice on animal husbandry and home economics. More
farmers than expected at appraisal participated in the extension program.
Actual yields obtained in crops grown (e.g. maize, wheat and cotton) have
also been significantly higher than expected. Thirteen extension areas
have been established, each organized around a marketing center. Associated
with each marketing center is a cooperative which farmers interested in
receiving credit are required to join. In 1973/74 about 7,200 farmers
received short term credit totalling ETH$400,000 through these centers.
interest on loans was set at 12% and repayment of credit has been excel-
lent, averaging about 97% over the first three years. Regarding the
settlement areas, physical progress has been satisfactory but the Government
has been slow to legalize settlers' right of tenure through the issue of
long-term leases. Issuance of such leases to the farmers settled under the
first project is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
The Second Project
38.       The second project would in most respects be a continuation and
expansion of the first project. All the seven sub-districts of Wolamo
would be covered under this project for basic agricultural services, and
new services would be introduced in the two sub-districts covered by the
first project. The main emphasis would be on the expansion of croo
production through distribution of farm inputs and improvement of livestock
through cross-breeding and animal health programs. Cooperatives would
continue to be supported and increased in numbers to provide an insti-
tutional basis for the distribution of credit and the marketing of produce.



- 13 -
The project would also include provision for construction and up-grading
of rural roads, expansion of rural water supply facilities and assistance
to rural artisans, a soil conservation program and an experimental coffee
program, as well as certain studies described below.
Project Description
39.       The specific components of the proposed project and their
relationship to services in the first project areas are given below:
(1) In the two sub-districts comprising the first project
area, the second project will provide (a) extension services to
farmers not participating under: the first project and incre-
mental agricultural inputs and related credit and animal
health, soil conservation and home economics services to all
farmers; (b) the introduction of new services including live-
stock cross-breeding, promotion of improved fodder crops
and the establishment of a primary livestock market and
holding ground.
(2) Throughout the remaining areas of Wolamo, the project would
include: the introduction of extension, elementary animal
health, soil conservation and home economics services, to-
gether with credit for the purchase of agricultural inputs.
(3) The project would provide (a) continued support for 13
cooperative marketing centers (CMC's) and the Wolamo
Farmers Cooperative Union established under the first
project; (b) the establishment of further 39 CMC's,
construction of about 600 km of minor roads and tracks,
improvement of rural water supplies, assistance to
rural artisans and the provision of expanded adminis-
trative services.
Detailed Features
Farm Inputs
4[-       Project farmers will receive seasonal credit at an in-
terest rate of one percent per month for up to eleven months for
fertilizer, improved seeds, pesticides, tools and implements. Farners
will contribute 25% of the input cost in the form of a cash down payment.
It is estimated that 75,000 farmers (50% of all district farmers) would
have received credit by the fifth year of the project and about three
quarters of all district farmers would have been reached by year nine.
Cooperative Development
41.       The project would establish an additional 39 cooperative marketing
centers (CMC's) which will be responsible for the distribution of farm in-
puts, of credit repayment collections and marketing of produce. The proj-
ect would provide CMC with simple stores, offices and equipment to which



-14 -
farmers will contribute 50% of construction cost by providing voluntary
labor and some materials; the balance will be met by WADU which would
lease buildings and equipmeit to the CMCs free of charge. Initially,
WADU will operate the CMC's and subsidize the full cost of the staff.
After about three years whe1! the CMC's are expected to be registered as
independent cooperatives, this subsidy would be gradually phased out
with total elimination by the year seven. Also, upon registrations as a
cooperative, the CMCs would receive credit to acquire from WADU buildings
and equipment on terms and conditions approved by IDA.
Rural Roads
42.       The project would provide for the construction of 366 km of minor
roads ard 235 km of tracks, including the upgrading of tracks constructed
under the first project. Pending a decision of the government on which
agency should have responsibility for rural road construction and main-
tenance throughout the country, WADU would continue to be responsible
for project road construction. With regard to future road maintenance
costs, it has been agreed that the government would assume this responsi-
bility. (Section 4.06 of draft Credit Agreement.)
Rural Water Supplies
43-       The project would provide for the construction of wells and
water storage facilities in the highlands and construction of water storage
facilities in the settlement areas. Provision of these facilities for set-
tlement areas was envisaged in the first project but was not implemented
due to some cost over-runs in other components and because the water facil-
ities were scheduled for construction in the later stages of project execu-
tion. The cost of construction and maintenance of these facilities will
be recovered by water charges in the settlement areas; elsewhere local
communities and district administration will each contribute 25% of the
total capital costs; the balance would be covered by a WADU grant to
the local communities which will also maintain the facilities. Some
60,000 farm families would benefit from these facilities.
Assistance to Rural Artisans
44.       WADU would develop a small training program for some 1,500 local
artisans engaged in cotton spinning and weaving and in the manufacture and
repair of farm tools and equipment.   The program is expected to include
the training and employment of instructors and extension of credit for
purchase of tools and other equipment.    A sum of US$194,000 has been in-
cluded in the project for this purpose. It has been agreed that WADU will
submit this program to ]:DA for approval before implementation (Section 4.04
of draft Credit Agreement).
WADU Services
45.       The Project Unit (WADU) established under the first project would
continue as the authority for the proposed project under the supervision



and guidance of the Extension and Project Implementation Department of the
Ministry of Agriculture. The project would provide support for WADU
extension, training, technical and administrative services. Agricultural
extension staff is expected to increase to about 200 persons in the
fifth year of the project and on project completion the ratio of farmers
to demonstrators throughout the project area would be about 500:1. The
Training Center established under the first project would be expanded to
enable about 250 demonstrators and 600 farmers to receive basic and
advanced training over the project period.
46.       The project would extend the soil conservation program established
under the first project. Demonstrators will supervise and train farmer
self-help groups, and 14 small tree nurseries would be established to pro-
vide planting material at a nominal charge to farmers. It is expected that
a total of about 21,000 ha would be protected as part of this program.
47.,      Extension advice on home economics would also be expanded; the
project would provide for about 42 field workers, supporting staff and
equipment.
U.        The project would extend cattle cross-breeding and animal health
programs initiated under the first project. The cross-breeding program
would be concentrated in first project areas, and would eventually
involve about 50,000 head of cattle (25 percent of the area herd) owned
by about 7,000 farmers. The remaining farmers with about 150,000 head
would benefit from the expanded livestock extension service. In addition,
a small poultry up-grading program would be introduced. To meet these
needs, the project would include buildings, machinery, equipment and
staff for a project farm which would produce both Friesian bulls for the
cross-breeding program and cocks for the poultry program. A vaccination
campaign and animal health service initiated under the first project
would be expanded into the remainder of the project areas with the
addition of increased diagnostic support services and extension staff.
The project would also establish a primary livestock market within
Wolamo to facilitate the marketing of the projected incremental annual
production, eventually reaching 14,000 head. To serve this market, WADU
will set up and operate a 1,000 ha holding ground.
419-      The project would include construction of a central headquarters
building for WADU and provision of water supply to staff quarters and of-
fices. The WADU workshop will be expanded to allow maintenance and repair
of WADU vehicles and machinery. WADU administrative services would be ex-
panded under the project. The existing legal, audit and information and
public relations activities would receive additional support, as would per-
sonnel, central services and purchasing sections.
Experimental Programs and Studies
50.       An experimental program for improvement of coffee quality in-
volving 5000 farmers would be developed under the project. If successful



- 16 -
the program could be extended nationally. This program would consist of
(a) extension advice on pruning, weeding, spacing, picking and other im-
proved cultivation techniques, and (b) stumping (drastic pruning) of one-
seventh of the coffee bushes belonging to each farmer, in order to demon-
strate the improvement in quality to be obtained through this technique.
As stumping would temporarily involve a loss of income, farmers would be
compensated by a cash subsidy of Eth$10 in the year of cutback, and fer-
tilizer would be provided over five years free of charge (about Eth$5 per
farmer). It is expected that once the benefits of stumping have been
demonstrated, the farmers will apply this technique to the rest of their
coffee bushes without further subsidy.
51        WADU would, under terms of reference and staffing arrangements
reviewed by the Association (Section 3.02 of draft Credit Agreement)
carry out the following three special studies with assistance of con-
sultancy advice where necessary:
(a) A monitoring study of the soil conservation program to
provide data for the formulation of a more extensive
program for erosion control in Ethiopia;
(b)  A study on the suitability of available land for fur-
ther settlement in Wolamo; and
(c)  A study of control and use of ranching land in Wolamo.
Project Costs andi FinRcin7
52.       The total project cost including taxes and duties is estimated
at US$17.3 million of which US$6.9 million or 40% would represent foreign
exchange. Duties and taxes are estimated at US$1.3 million. A physical
contingency of 5% and a price contingency of 12% per annum cumulative
have been added to all project costs.
53-       Financing of project costs (net of taxes) will be shared in the
following proportions:
US$            Percentage
000's
IDA                          12,000                75
Government                    3,220                20
Farmers                         800                 5
Total                        16,020               100



- 17 -
54,       The proposed IDA credit would finance the foreign exchange cost
an1 make a sizable contribution to the local cost. The Government will
on-lend US$1.8 million of the proceeds of the credit allocated for seasonal
credit for farm inputs to AIDB at an interest rate of 7-1/4% for 15 years.
Th.e Government will bear the exchange risk. AIDB will on-lend to the Wolamo
Farmers Cooperative Union (WFCU) at 10% and the WFCU will on-lend to regis-
tered cooperatives at 11% per annum. The cooperatives would then on-lend
to farmers at 12% per annum. Till the CMC's are registered as cooperatives,
they are unable to borrow directly from AIDB because they lack legal per-
sonality to contract debt. During the period before registration, credit
for the CMC's will be channeled to farners through WADU at the above rates.
Government contribution net of taxes and duties would te about US$3.2
million. Farmers' contributions would represent tihe 25% cash down payment
for farm inputs and a small cash contribution for rural water facilities.
All other project funds will be channeled through WADU.
Procurement
55-       Equipment, vehicles, fertilizer and other farm inputs (US$3.5
million) would be procured by international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines, except for contracts for goods and
services costing less than US$30,000 wILich would be let following
Government procurement procedures which are acceptable; orders would be
grouped whenever possible.   Construction of WADU headquarters (US$0.1
.illion) is not likely to attract internationml bids and the contracts
would be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally. All other civil works (US$1.4 million),
which would be carried out in different locations and over a period of
time, would be carried out by WADU force account. (Schedule 3 of draft
Credit Agreement.)
Disbursements
56.       Disbursements of funds from the Credit would be on the following
basis:
(a) 100% of CIF or 69% of total costs of vehicles, machinery
and equipment and incremental farm inputs including
fertilizer, improved seeds, and pesticides (US$2.7 million);
(b) 69% of total costs of civil works for roads including salaries,
construction material and operating costs of construction ma-
chinery (US$0.6); civil works for buildings (US$0.2 million);
WADU's contribution to salaries of staff of mairketing centers
and cooperatives, and to costs of cooperative buildings and
equipment (US$0.4 million); studies on1 soil conservation,



- 18
availability of land for settlement, and use of ranching land
(US$0.2 million); assistance to rural artisans (US$0.2.million);
(c) 50% of total costs of water supply for farmers and settlements
(US$0.2 million);
(d) 59% of total program costs of WADU salaries and operating
expenses (US$4.3 million);
US$3.2 million of the credit would be unallocated to cover contingencies.
Benefits and Rate of Return
57.       At full development (in year 9), the increased production of
food crops would eliminate Wolamo district's dependence on imports from
other parts of Ethiopia. There would be increased livestock production
and more dairy produce as a result of the project. The cash incomes of
about 100,000 participating farmers would be substantially increased.
For owner operators (but excluding settlements) net incremental income
would range between ETH$30 and ETH$145 and for tenants between ETH$20
and E H$135 annually at full development.   Incremental grain (maize and
teff) production will be 50,000 tons by year six. Most of this will be
absorbed by increased consumption, but about 25% is expected to serve
to reduce import of grain into Ethiopia. These imports are currently
valued at US$1 million. Project incremental livestock production
wculd be locally consumed and would not materially affect Government's
foreign exchange position. The project would provide important direct
benefits to a large segment of the rural population, the new project
would provide a firm basis for the further development of the @
district.
58.       The project's internal economic return is estimated to be 17.2%
over 20 years by using a shadow rate of foreign exchange of 33% higher
than the official rate. The rate of return without shadow pricing
foreign exchange would be 16.8%.   The rate of return calculations do not
include costs and benefits from rural water supply, assistance to rural
artisans and studies because benefits of these measures cannot be quanti-
fied.



- 1 9 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Association
and the Empire of Ethiopia, the report of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of
a draft Resolution approving the proposed development credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Agreement
inter alia includes convenants relating to the re-lending operations of
AIDB and WADU under the Project (Sections 3.05 and 3.06), the preparation
of a rural crafts development plan (Section 4.04), consultation in the
appointment of WADU Senior Staff (Section 4.07), and maintenance of the
rural roads to be constructed under the project (Section 4.06). Among
the conditions of effectiveness of the credit are the issuance of leases
to farmers settled under the first project. Standard leases acceptable
to the Association were recently prepared and the said condition was
inserted to ensure their prompt issuance. Additional conditions of
effectiveness include conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and the AIDB and agreements concerning extension of farm
credit between AIDB and EPID and WFCU (Section 6.01) . In other respects,
the draft Agreement generally conforms to the normal pattern for credits
for agricultural projects.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
June 13, 1974






ANNE I
Page 1 of 4
Cpro!rnu. Comparisons
fo,jn zzO'n    ey             ItMy
iao-         1970             1O-70
iJNP peaz Capita US$ (Atlas basis)                                    ..BtIC                                                        , 760
Dfrm"craphic
CrUdle birth rat-e (per thousaind)                                  .                6b              O i            z8           16.6b
Crudie teath rate (per thousand)                                    .25 77,                          22             1 6            9. ?
Infant "w.rtality rate (per.thousand live births)                   ...16O-165 1:                                  ..               9.2
Lif'e expectancy at birth (years)                                   .               39               LO             4 59           1
Oru~is reproduction rate /1                                         ..2.9                          .3. ?           3.3             0.9
P.p,i;tistln growth rate ir7                                        1.6            2.2              2.7            3.3             O. S
K-p.lation growth rate - urban                                               5         /I            C7              6 /d,e        G. 7 /
Age strocture (percenit)
(-14                                                                            Li s If           L              1,?            0.
25-tt                                                             .               52 7f,          3r3             51            60.9
t5-' and over                                                     ..                                               2.           1.
Dependency ratio /3                                                ..              ..               2.1/i            iZ            1 .0 
Population density per sq. Ion.                                      17             20               I,             20              178
Urban population as percent of total                                  6 /c           9 /C             6  ri9 /e,k                    9 3 /e,
Family planning: No. of iacceptors cumulative (thou,.)*..
No. of users (% of married women)                ...                              .2. 2
b4ployment
Total labor force (thousands)                                       ...5,780                                     5,060i /i k    19, nr. I.
Percentage employed in agriculture                                ...91                                           90go             3
Percentage unemployed                                                                                            . 
Income Distribution
Percent of national income received by lowest 20%...
Percenit of nati-onal income received by highest 5%...
Health and Nutrition
Population per physician                                            ..71,50U /k                  21,570 /n      12,300 /k           550
Population per nursing person                                       ..3C, 390 7W n                2,900, 7-k m   3 050 7W
Population per hospital bed                                      3,C'YJ /o,p     3,000              7i0   ;'       736, 7W         1100 Ik
Per capita calorie supply as % of requirements /477 /r                              dl               619            90              1i1, /s
Per capita protein supply, total (grams per dayrLi1                  u3 7r          nO'              43             68               So 7s
Of which, animal and puise                                         25 7Wr         25               23             29               42 77-
Death rate 1-4 years /6                                             ...                              .              ._
Educa tionn
Adjusted /7 primary school enrollment ratio                           6             16 /k            3?             6)0 In26            /k
Adjusted 77 secondiary school enrollment ratio                        I              Lo 71W           2               8 7-u          5 7W
Years of sc-hooling provided, first and seconid level                12             1213                            13
Vocational enrollment as % of see. school enroll1ment                20              5/k                             2 I 
Adult literacy rate %                                               ..7 7?,vw                                        30/,v;
Housine
Average No. of persons per room (urban)                             2.7 /o,x       .....1
Percent of occupied unite without piped water                        26 to ~OX                       20. /c        l.3:.o
Access to electrcity (as % of total populato)st                                .3.
Percent of rural population Connected to electricity               3..
Rai    roeeivers per 1000 populaLtion                                54/&a                            i f            58 1k          216
Passenger cars per 1000 populaLtion                                   1 7~~o         1A /2 /k a                      9             a190
Electric power consumqption (kwh p.c.)                                u 7F          26               29   m 7t                   2,1bt
Newsprint consumption p.c. kg per year                              ..0.02                          0.1            0.4
Notes:   Figures refer either to the latest periods or to                and di'stribution by age and sex of nationa    populations.
the latest years. Latest periods refer in principle to              L    Protein standards (requirements) for all countries as estab-
the years 1956-60 or 196,6-70;, the latest years in prin-                lished by USDA Economic ileseirch Service provide for a minfroim,
ciple to 1960 and 1970. Only significantly different                     allowance of 60 grames of total protein per day, and 20 grams of
periods or years are footnoted searately.                                animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams shiould be animnal
/1  Average number of daughters per woman of reproductive                protein.  These standards are somewhat l6wer than those of 75
age.                                                                grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
/2  Population growth rates are for the deoadea ending in                average for the world, proposed by FAQ in the Third World Food
1960 and 1970.                                                      S urvey.
/3  Ratio or order 15 and 65 acs over age brackets to                A6  Soms studies have suggested that erude death zastes of children
those in labor force bracket of ages 15 through 64.                 ages 1 through 4u may be used as a first approximation index of
/A  FAD reference standards represent physiological re-                  malnutrition.
quirementa for normal activity and health, taking               Li peorcentage enrolled of corresponding populaticn of school aga
account of environmental temprature, body weighte,                  as defined for each country.
c:ilt; /0 i9o7;  /c droan population defined as Addis Aba, Asmiara, towns and market centers;         Id 19.?-f'9:  /e Over-
d,..pootiP--'tion;  If I Q7T;IL. 15-59 years;  Ih ,O years and over;   /A 7atio of population uinder 15 and n,5 aid over to t.oosi
I sh force;    /I 1&.oor force in age bracket 15-79;    /k 19o9;   /1 over-T:: years old;   Is Tang-anyika only;   /o turses-midwiive-s
and cualic healtn nurses;    /o 19,l;   /p Including matlrmity noapital beds;    /    Inuludflng local or rural anfliaternity hospital
vets;   /r il-u-3;    /s 296d:Z9j   /t l9Jt-oT;   /u 196d;   /v Over 15 years;   ,vDfntono           ieay     nnw;      A    dl    hb
oty;  ~  Uroan ad rural;  I: Pecentage of dIling3 wWn- electrical lightTong;  /aa 1959;  Iso 19;r3;  /ac Urban7 only.
December 27, 197-3



ANNEXI
PTII ItSP I A                                                 ae      r4 
FlON4SM)T(2 TFEiNT*T MUAITA                                            Pg      f4P
(Aaisount.A in stilli.iis ol' U.S. dull=ars)
Aetnnt                       ir" ,'et,             1')60-  19 65 -   19 70 -  19 75 -  190      1  0    L l
RATIO'NAL A'CkAtW'Tl
Gross I~~~~a.*sttc Pe ~ ~ I%Yect  A               1I9 Tric leva &         Hnt P      Average Annua-l t3rovth Rates       As Pe,rcent of GPY
10W                                         5.,                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~.  44 5. 0  100.0  99*.4  102. 3
Ckiins frvm -.'rms o~f Trptde y)   0.3     16, 5     9.4         3. Q   _26. 3    -59. 9       .                 .        .        -      0. 6   -2.3
Groso Domestic Income           IT"W    *TIZ3     lItt4.0     18804    j~202  2  T   T        .      4.3      4.0       4.8'   100.0    100.0   IWO.
Import (mncl. ifFS)              107.4    188.9    203.3      232.9     26i.6    347.7      12.0     1.5      5.7       50      10.4     12.2    13.6
ngperts      (iWprt cqancity)     96.2    161.4    175.9       23Q.1    238.6    278.1      10.9     1.7      6.3       3.1      9.3     10.6    10.9
Res-ource Cap                     11.2     27.5      74         -6.2     30.0     69.6      19.7       -       18      18.3      ri     -:         .
Cousuasptiun ixenditutres        922.3   1208.8   11.66.3     1613.1   1756.8   2233.0       5.6     3.9      3.7       4.9     89.1     88.1    87.4
Investment   1   (incl. stocks)  124.6    163.8    225.0      261.2     299.6    392.4       5.6     6.6      5.9       5.6     12.0     13.5    15..'
DDmestic Savings                 113.3    136.2    197.6       267.3    269.5    322.8       3.8     7.7      6.4       3.7     10.9     11.9    12.6
8atloanel Savilngs               117.3    142.3    198.5       263.4    266,2    314.0       3.9     6.9       6.1      3.4      11.3    11.9    11.3
PERHA2IESE_TRADE                           Annual Date, at Current Prices                                                       As Percent of Total.
1967     1968     1969        1970     1971     1972                                          1968    _97       197 2
Capital goods                   48.6     72.9      51.7       56.9     64.0      72.7                                         42.1     33.2    38.5
DItsimrdiate goods (-"fue.ls)   30.8     38.5     33.5        39.4     43.4     39%.6                                         22.3     23.0    20.9
Fluela and related materials    12.6     10.8     11.3        13.5     17.7     15.7                                           6.2      7.9     8.3
of vhich: Petroleum
Cons   ti       d    6i         50.9     50.8      58.8       61.7     62.7      61.1                                          29.4:   35.9    32.3
ToaMerh    Imat     at       43.0    173.0     155.3      171.6    178       189.1                                         100.0   100.0   100.0
Exports
Prina.ry pwoducts (tscl. tbels)  99.9   102.6    t14.9       114.6    119.7    159.8                                          96.4     93.7    95.8
Fuels and related materials               0.7       1.3'       1.4      2.0       1.5                                          0.7      1.1     0.9
of vwhich: Petroleum
'ac tursd  23  ~      1.2      3.1      3.0         6.3      3.9      3.5                                           2.9      5.2     3.3
Mac.E.t            (fob)    101.-1   1076.4   119.2       1722. 3  1725T.6  166.8                                         100.0    1o00.0  10700
Tosurism and Rorder~ Trade
Avii.st. 196Y:.69__  106'           ____
lsercharsdlae T'rade tnd.ices      1960     1965     1970        1973     1-975    .1980
6Lxprt Price Index              93.8    1069.0   126.5       141.7    151.4    171.2       3.1     3.0       3.7      2.5
Import Price Index              93.9     92.7    102.4.      125.8    172.0    223.8      -0.3     2.0      10.9      5.4
Terms of Trade Index            99.9    117.7   '123.6       112.6     88.0      76.5      3.3      1.0     -6.6     -2.8
Exports Volume index            71.8     97.6     88.7       145.8    160.7    205.2       6.3    -1.9      12.6      5.0
VAW.vU ADDED BY SECTOR            Annu.al. Data at 120-91  Ethopis   $1imi  io's              Averaige Annual Orovth Rates       As Percent of Total
1986                9,6 1967(8       169(') 1Y71172             1960/61 - 1971/ 72             1960/61  1965/66  1 971/7 2
Agric'iLlture                 1504.5   1608.9   1684.4    1754.2   1833.3   1936.8                   2.3                      64.5     57.0     51.5
industry and Mininlg           286.6    358.,9   438.8    500.9     541.1    621.0                   7.3                      12.3     14.8     16.5
Service                        541.0   -684.3    832.7     944.9   1071.1   1204.1                   7.6                      2.3. 2   28.2     32.0
Total                         2332.1   2652.3   2955.9   3200.0    3445.5   3761.9                   4.4                     100.0    ID0.0    i00.0
09JtT.!C PENANCE                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As Percent of CI)
P"ntc ra  Gvenment              1967/68  1968/69   1969170  1970/71  1971/72   192/27 3          1967/68 - 1972/73            .j.IZ!I60     97~Q  1717
Current Receipts               367.6    396.6    429.1    466.0     494.7    560.0                   8.8                       9.6      9.7     10.5
Current Fx2endittre~s          34 5.-2  362.0    384.0    405.5     434.4    473.8                   6.5                       9.0      8.7      9.2
Budigetary Savings              22.4     34.6     45.1     60.5      60.3   .86.2                   30. 9                      0.6      1.0      1.3
Other Public Sector                -        -        -         -        -        -                                                -
PublU.c Sector mnveatment      71.5     64.7      92.0    111.5    125.9     1.9                    12.5                       1.9     2.1       2.7
')J~.R~NI ~P1~ITfl).EDETATIS    Actual         Prelims.  Proj.                       DETAIL ON                              At end 1969  P aLnd EF.
A~~itTotvI.Cur.rerSt2~.eCd.)  ,970/'71  1971 /72  197,2/73  1973/74             PThLIC SECTOR                      Third Plan       of Total.
r. duc a,t i                    190       1.7     '21.0     21.4                        IVTEY      POAM(1968 /69                       -1972 /73)
Other Social) Serv'ices          7. 2      7.0      7.5      8.3                        Social Sectors                        46.6         22.3
kgrl,u1tltre                     2.8      2.9       2.8      3.2                        Agriculture                           25.3        12.1
Zt~er  :3r('nicServ-ices     8.8       8.1      8.7      9.5                        Industry and Mining                   24.5         1.
Wor.Vtstra,tic,ns and Defense   53.6     53.0     50.7      46.6                        Power
~~~ther ~~~~~~~~~~8.6             9.2       9.3     11.2                        Transport and communications          83.5        39.'.
ioo  C2SYrent Expenditures   100.0    100.0    100.0     100.0                        Other                               -29.3         14.0
Total Expenditures                   209.2        100.0
~~t:lCTED 1ItIC~~~~~~~~TOPS ~~1960-             1965-    1970-   1973-       FINAN4CING
slu rt.'l )m~ 3-year avtraged data)       295         910.    1975    1978
AWvtra.' TC)7                                    !-0        3.22     3. 20    3.05           Public S.-ctor Savinga             73.8        42.2
inprt t1a.st.ic:ity                            2.68       0.31     1.27     1.1Program aid counterpart                           -           -
t6srginal I)nmentic Snving3 Rate                 0.07      0.20      0.20    0.04            Foreign Project Aid              101.2         57.8
Matrginal National Savings Rate                  0.08       0.18     0.19,   0.04      .     Total Financing                  175.0        100.0
L(.P(9 FORCE AUII)                            Total ILcior Force                             . ValuAdded Per, Wo,rkr (9      -      Price,- & K)Oc._Rates)
OUtf''T 1FF WoPvi:R              In M.illion.,  ~     of Tots.. 91                        In U                                          i.olr  Proto  Aeae 1
~~~ ~~~~             Gr~~~~,ottI Fat.e  ~ 2..       2..         2..   ~    .        Growth Rate
AsrIculture                       .         .                  . 
Inductry..                                  .        .         ....
Tot al
not available        --1. 36 tF,uI hL:f thtie
avam,I .c inl). ntowt.



&%'%TX I
ETHIOPIA
BVAZIR  OF PATl1!S  flrUUIAL ASSIrAW, A'D MM
(aunts in mtillina of U.S. doumAr At cTu nt pric',6
AVgs. he
Actual                      Estimated                'ject                                                  Gowth RB-A
1696N      1970                  1972         1S973                  1975       1976       1977        97-        1979       1969-179
S 5V'LL-AlkNCE OF PAYfMENTS
Exr-rts (incl. NVS)                 177.0      180.3      190.2      246.8        327.4       379.0      385.0      410.0      435.0       465.0      520.0          11.4
'.--r^  'r.cl. N S)              189.1      212.2      232.1      236.7        259.9       353.5      390.0      435.0       480.0      530.0      ,e,.5          12.0
-12.1      -31.9      -41.9       07.1                     25.5 *--T        -    25.0 -45.0           -65.0       -67.5          18.7
, .e,es- (re'.)            ~~~~-2,5    -1.5       -4.5       -6.1         -6.0        -9.0      -10.0      -1t.0      -12.0      -13.0       -14.0          18.8
':---: D-ves.ent income           -5.6       -6.2       -7.2      -13.1        -15.2       -15.0      -16.0      -17.0      -18.0       -19.0      -20.0          13.6
,r--re:t >re-ers (net)              11.2        8.0        9.0       17.6         21.4        20.0       20.0       20.0       20;0        20.0       20.0           6.0
-_ C-e9t Accounts                                                          5.5 7tT  25  -33.0                         -55.0       Mr         -rTr          24.6
Pr:.v.:e flirect Lnv.'estrenzt.       2.7        3.9        5.7        9.7         10.0        10.5       11.0       11.5        12.0       12.5       13.5          17.5
Ofi:ial Zapital Grants
.-.'- !     Loans
St -Sane:-. s                    34.0       27.4       44.3       33.2         40.0                           ..         ..         ..           ..
r -13.5                                  -14.8      -13,1      -13,1        -14,0 , .. .. ..
'.e: -5' -3eer.ts                    20.5       12.6       31.2       20.1         26.0         ..          ..         ..         ..         ..         ..              .
Ct~.er t    3r unsns
-R?   -nent s__
~__~ :1  n 9-                                -          ---                     -                                                  AC u-I -t                     t
a'                                                       0.9-      -14 6         -4-0197                                                             -~7       19     -
Je >-^r, ~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ _ _ _ _ - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Acitml                                                                       Estimted
.-'a 'r_5sac-ions n.e.i.           -10.1      13.3        0.9      -14.6         -4.0                                   1         1970     1971     1972        1973
C -, e  :;e- heserves            -4. 2       1.8        6.8      -23.M7 -A7N. -D siB SEnVICE
FUn    Ebt Out. & risbursed 156.4    169,2    204.9     227.2      273.4
G?', A' LZ!A'; vlME,Et.is
0::'1.2 31'r-a-'s & Grant-like       15.0       11.4        11.3      13.7         15.0        IntereBt on Public Debt     5.9      6.0       7.0      8.3        8.4
Repayments on Public Debt  13.5     14.8      13.1     13.1       17.1
; v.fLr, Loans                                                                             Total Public Debt Service  19.4     20.8     20.1      21,4       25.5
7=5D                               27.6          -           -      10.8            -         Othar Debt Service (net)               -        -        -
3.5        3.1        13.9      34.3         74.4         Total Debt Service (net)  19.4     20.8      20.1     21.4        25.5
C, he r 
^t'er  92t,3teral                    -                      -         -             -      BLrden on Export aLrninss
Xverc-ents                          18.7        8.6       26.9       17.3         20,0
' .cliers                           0.4         1.3        0.7          -            -        Public Debt Service        11.0     11.5     10.6       8.7        7.9
Ft -.jcisl Institutions             0.2         3.0        5.0         -            _         Total Debt Service         11.0     11.5     10.6       8.7        7.9
A:- n                                 -          -           -         -             -        TS+Direct Invest. Inc.     14.1     15.0     14.4      14.0       12.4
?icc Loars n.e.i.
T:.'2 ?. >1.ic ?ZT be                50.4        16.0       46.5       62.4 444               Average Termss of Public Debt
Actsal Dabt Outstandung on Dc. 31 1972                 Int. as % Prior Year D12    4-4      3.8       4.1      4.1        3.7
_Aiburued Onl                                                       Percent iort. as 7 Prior Y                        D     10.0      9.5      7.7       6.4        7.5
IDA                                           64.2                   28.3                     I.lD Debt Out. & Disbursed   44.7     47.4     57.1      64.2       69.1
Cther 4;ltilateral                            33.2                   14.6                      c   re % public Debt 0hD    28.6     28.0      27.9     28.3       25.3
Go-l ern zs                                   95 4                   42,2                      "as % Public Debt Servic6   27.5     27.3      28.7     29.1       26.3
el's                         ~~~~         ~~~~~95.9  42.2
Fi:_incial Institutions                        3.6                    1.6                     IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed    19.9     22.7      26.4     33.2       42.4
Sc si                                         30.3                   13.3                        as % Pblic Debt 06D       12.7     13.4      12.9     14.6       15.5
P;b>-c DtY n.e.i                                                                                  & S as % Public Debt Service  0.5  0.5       1.0      1.4        1.6
Total Public v - , Debt                      227.2                  100.0
0t;ie M&T Debts
Short-tern Debt (disb, only)
not a! T'] able                                           e staff estiste
n.rot avniLbie                                            - nil or negligible
*- a-a:'a8!e se,Tarate>y                                --   : ia thRn half the
t t i2C.l .eW in tot.31                                    :nl1est unit shown



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND NET PRIVATE CAPITAL INFLOW TO ETHIOPIA
Gross Public Loan Capital Inflow by Source 1962-1972
(US $ millions)
Total                                         Total  Total Total
1962                                          1966  1970   1970
to                                            to    to     to
1965  1966 1967  196U  1969  1970 1971 1972   1969  1972   1972
IBRD              14.3   7.8  6.3   4.8   6.8  5.6 12.5    9.4 25.7   27.5   28.0
IDA                5.8   2.7  2.7   4.1  14.6   2.8  3.6   4.5 14.1   10.9   11.2
U.S.A.            143.4  5.2  14.6 19.3   8.1  5.8  15.7   9.9  37.2   31.14  32.0
U.S.S.R.           5.9   3.7  3.8   2.1   0.3    -   0.3    -    9.9.  0.3    o.14
Yugoslavia         4.0   0.4  0.6       -     -       -     -    1.0    -      -
Italy              0.7    -   1.1  14.3   5.0  2.0   4.3   0.7  10.4    7.0   7.1
Germany            3.14   -   2.0   0.1   o.6   1.4  3.6   4.1   2.7    9.1   9.3
Sweden             0.8    -     -    -    1.6   1.0  1.9   ?.1   1.6    5.0   5.1
Netherlands         -   10.9    -    .     -     -     -    -   10.9     -     -
Other              2.5   0.4    -   0.3   0.7 <2.3   2.1   2.5   1.4    6.9   6.9
TOTAL        80.8  31.1  21.1  35.0  27.7  20.9  44.0 33.3 114.9  98.2  100.0
Gross Public Loan Capital Inflow by Sector 1962-1972
(US $ millions)
Conmmunications
and Power      59.5 22.4 12.9   18.0 12.2    8.4 26.2  21.8  65.6   56.4  57.14
Industry          13.8   3.6  14.5  4.9   1.5   2.4  2.1   2.0 14.5     6.5   6.6
Agriculture        0.3   0.1  0.2    -     -    0.3  8.7   4.7   0.3   13.7  14.0
Health             0.8   0.5   1.5  5.9   8.6   3.8  2.9   1.6  16.5    8.3   8.5
Education          0.4    -    0.4  2.14  2.2   1.2  0.8   1.6   5.0    3.6   3.7
DFC                3.0   0.1    -   0.7   1.8   4.2  3.2   0.5   2.6    7.9   8.0
Other              3.0   4.14  1.6  3.1   1.4   o.6  0.2   1.0  10.5    1.8   1.8
TOTAL        80.8 31.1 21.1    35.0  27.7 20.9  44.0 33.3 114.9   98.2  100.00
Net Private Capital Inflow 1965-1972
(US $ millions)
Total    Total
1965  1966 1967 1968   1969  1970 1971 1972    1965-68  1969-72
1O.L  6.4  2.8   6.14 - 2.0 11.2 114.6 13.2     26.0    37.0



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
TIIF; :;TATIJ3 Oe' HAJ1K -uouP) 'PEdATIO!J' IE'P'!I]OPIA
STATEMk;NT OF IANK 1A)hNS AN!) IDA CHiDlT:;
(as utM.t Ii i tj/l) ~
Amount
Loan or                                                            (UNaimi1ion)
Credit                                                   (less cancellation)  Undis-
Number     Year   Borrower         Purpooe                    Bank     IDA    bursed
Eight loans fully d. ;bursed                                  56.7
Two credits fully disburscd                                           20.7
523-ET     1968   Ethiopia    Fourth Highway                  13.5               1.6
Ill-ET     1968   Ethiopia    Fourth Highway                           7.7      0.9
596-ET     1969   EELVA /1    Power II (Finchaa)              23.1              1.0
605-ET     1969   IBTh: L     Telecownxnnications IV           ,.5               1.3
169-_T     1969   EthiJopIa   Wolwno Agriculture                       3.5      0.3
188-FT     1970   Ethiopia    Humnera Agriculture                      3.1       o. 
2h3-ET     1971   Ethiopia    Educ.ation II                            9.5      6.
269-ET     1971   Etidopia    Dairy                                    4.4      3.
818-ET     1972   AWSA /3     Addis Ababa Water
Supply & Sewerage               10.8             10.1
290-ET     1972   EUtiopia    Coffee Processing                        6.3      6.o
30h-ET     1972   Ethiopia    Agricultural & Indus'rial
Development Bank                        11.0      7.0
332-ET     1972   Etitopia    Fifth Highway                           17.0     16.9
365-ET     1973   Etliopia    Second Livestock                         5.0      5.0
l16-hT     1973   Et.hiopia   Agric. Minimum Package                  21.0     21.0
417-ETr    19713  Ht.hiopia   Third f4lucation                        10.0     30.0
W18-ETY    1973   Etlhiopia   Amibara Irrigation                      17.0)     J7.0
453 iTr     197   .:thi opi:l  Te1,vrom V                              21       2 ,'1.
TOtI..         ..        .       ..6 I. 15 7.6
of whi h h;lS been repaio..                    3Qi.h     -
Total now outst-fing     .     .. .               7.?    I ZT.
Amount sold ...................... L.1
or wtiOi has btlen rcpiid.     3.9               .     ()7.6
Tl.;il IIOw li: Ind by Danik ;imA: IDA            78.0  1i/.
(prior t( vxthaiqg' :vi.-;u:; tment, )
Tot.0 undi;1ltur.-;ed                             1)i.0  Y1IN. 7  129.7
/l Ftlhipi ;oi N leetric Ii,'.hL t.  Power AuLhority
I mix'rial Ilto;U%t ot Telecoturinic(::tion:; of Ethiopia
T  Add is Alp,;:i W:i lAr & iei-:j't: Au t Ito rity



ANNIEX I 1.
Page 2 of 6
13.                   3TATEMENT OF IFC INVESTME;NT:i
(as at March 31, 19T7)
US$ Million
Type o                  Amoun t
Year              Obligor                     Bus i.ne ;x     Loa,n   Equity     Total
1965     Cotton Company of Ethiopi.a I         Textile;       1.5       1.0       2.5
1966     Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.           Paper                    1.9       1.9
1Q68     HVA Met:hari                         Sugar           5.'5      3.5       9.0
1.;1o    Cotton Comp.any of Ethic pia II     Textiles        o.t      0.2        0.7
197.3    Cotton Compahy of Ethiopia III        Textiles       1.5      0.2        1.7
Total Fross commi t,ments                            9.0      6.5       15.8
less, can( el lat.ions, te rminAti on,
tepayvwerits and sa.les                           3.5      3.1       6.6
Total coinimi -Men tL now hell by IFC                 _        _7        9.2
Total und i. hurse.i



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.  PROJECTS It EXECUTION - ETHIOPIA -
Ln No. 523     Fourth Highway Project; US$13.5 million Loan and US$7.7
Cr No.  I1     million Credit of January 15, 1968; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1973, postponed to June 30, 1974, and sub-
sequently to June 30, 1975.
The project was late in starting because initial bids were high
requiring changes in specifications and new bid invitations. Subsequent
progress has, however, been good. Of the three civil works contracts,
two have been completed - one a year ahead of schedule and the other about
fifteen months ahead of schedule: the thicd contract was substantially
completed at the end of 1973, about three mnonths behind schedule, but some
repair work and clean up operations extended into the second quarter of
1974. The closing date was postponed to allow for settlement of con-
tractor's claims.
Ln No. 596     Power II, Finchaa Hydroelectric Project; US$23.1 million
Loan of May 9, 1969; Closirg Date; December 31, 1973,
postponed to June 30, 1974 and was subsequently postponed
to December 31, 1974.
The Project has been completed; apart from some minor outstanding
works, and all three generating units are now available for commercial
operation. The original Loan Closing Date of December 31, 1973 has been
postponed to June 30, 1974 so that payment of retention monies can be
withheld pending completion of all outstanding items to complete contracts
to specifications.  An analysis of overall Project costs, taking into
consideration the various currency realignments during the course of con-
struction, shows that costs have increased1 by about 7% over the original
estimate, which is moderate in the inflationary conditions which have
prevailed during the construction period.   The increased costs are confined
entirely to local costs. The closing date was postponed to December 31,
1974 to allow payment for some minor correction of civil works.
Ln No. 605      Telecommunications IV Project; US$4.5 million Loan of
June 3, 1969; Closing Date; December 31, 1973, postponed
to December 31, 1974.
SIDA is providing joint financing of $4.5 million equivalent to
finance part of the foreign exchange cost. Overall progress has been
reasonably on target. However, installation of five microwave routes will
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX 1I
Page 4 of 6
not be accomplished until August 1974. The delays are due to difficulty
in obtaining suitable consultants to work on the survey of three routes
and the need to review the capacity, feasibility and other requirements
of the other two routes to assuie conformity with the Pan-African Regional
Telecommunications Recommendaticns.
Cr No. 169     Wolamo Agriculture Development Project; USK3.5 million
Credit of November 16, 1969; Closing Date:   June 30, 1976.
Overall progress is good and in advance of appraisal schedule.
Participation of farmers in the program to increase productivity through
the provision of extension services, inputs and credit is in advance of
expectations as is participation in the soil conservation program. Con-
struction of feeder roads is behind schedule and will reach only 50 percent
of target because of a financial shortfall. Land settlement will achieve
only about 90 percent of the project target because of unavallability of
suitable land. With respect to the livestock component, the vaccination
campaign is proceeding well.
Cr No. 188     Humera Agriculture Project; US$3.1 million Credit of
May 28, 1970; Closing Date:   December 31, 1973,
postponed to December 31, 1974.
The project is progressing well, but is behind appraisal schedule
by about one year, due mainly to delays in procurement of heavy road con-
struction equipment and delays in installation of the Humera water system,
which had to be undertaken by force account construction due to non-
availability of contractors. Construction of facilities on the project
farm is satisfactory. Consultant's study on the second phase project was
submitted to the Government in February.
Cr No. 243     Education II Projects US$9.5 million Credit of May 6, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
Project implementation is about twelve months behind appraisal
schedule. However, implementation is accelerating and the project is
expected to be completed by August 1975 about two months beyond the original
schedule.  The Education Sector Survey has already been completed.
Cr No. 269     Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project; US$4.4 million
Credit of August 30, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Credit was slow in becoming effective because of recruitment
problems. Overall progress is satisfactory but behind schedule. Project
costs have risen substantially since appraisal, and devaluation of the
dollar has reduced the value ol IDA financing. An estimate of what can be
accomplished within the financial constraints must await receipt of firm
quotations on equipment for expansion of the diary plant component.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6,
Cr No. 290     Coffee Processing Project; US$6.3 million Credit of
March 20, 1972; Closing Da.e: December 31, 1977.
There were delays in obtaining Parliamentary approval and re-
cruiting key staff, and the credit was declared effective only on
December 15, 1972. While the project is still in the initial stages
of implementation, procurement of road construction and coffee processing
equipment is well underway and project implementation is gd"ining momentum.
Ln No. 818     Addis Ababa Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$10.8 mil-
lion Loan of May 1, 1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
Project implementation is running eight to twelve months behind
the appraisal schedule. A revised estimate, based on recent tenders, indi-
cates a possible project cost over-run of about 50%.   Alteinatives for
reducing project costs are being considered. The AWSA and the Ministry of
Finance are to investigate means of meeting the financing gap and submit
proposals to the Bank.
Cr No. 304     Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank Project; US$11.0
million Credit of May 10, 1972; Closing Date: December 31,
1976.
The credit became effective on October 25, 1972. The industrial
portion of the credit has be'en fully committed. Authorizations for agri-
cultural projects are proceeding more slowly with $1.9 million committed
to date. The report on the agricultural credit survey is under preparation
by the consultants.
Cr No. 332     Fifth Highway Project:   US$17.0 million Credit of
September 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The credit did not become effective until July 24, 1973 due to
delays in Parliamentary ratification and in the submission to the Asso-
ciation of the required legal opinions. The engineering consultants have
been selected, contractor prequalification has been completed, and bids
for civil works are under review. Bid costs were approximately 80% above
estimates, and Government and Bank are currently reviewing the course to
be followed under those circumstances. Delay up to this time (the project
is 9 months to a year behind appraisal report estimates) is due to delays
,in credit effectiveness and delay in the selection of consultants, as well
as the requirement for additional site investigations to eliminate the use
of expensive crushed stone material.
Cr No. 365     Second Livestock Project; US$5.0 million Credit o,
April 2, 1973; Closing Date: July 15,, 1977.
Senior project staff have been app'i?inted and tender documents for
the 60 project items to be constructed during first project year was' under
preparation during last RMEA supervision mission in late 1973.



ANiEX II
Page 6 of 6
Cr No. 416     Agricultural Minimum PackagFe Project; US$21.0 million
Credit of July 5, 1973; Cl2.sing Date: September 30, 1977.
The credit became effective on April 15, 1974.
Cr No. 417     Third Education Project; US$10.0 million Credit of
July 5, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Credit is not yet effective; the terminal date for effective-
ness has been postponed to Jutly 31, 1974 due to delays in Parliamentary
ratification.
Cr No. 418     Amibara Irrigation.Project:   US$17.0 million Credit
of July 5, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
The credit is not yet effective; the terminal date for effective-
ness has been postponed to July 31, 1974 due to delays in Parliamentary
ratification.'.
Cr No. 453     Telecommunications V Project; US$24.4 million Credit
of'klanuary 17, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The credit is not yet effective; the terminal date for effective-
ness has been postponed to July 31, 1974 due to delays in Parliamentary
ratification.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
ETHIOPIA - SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAI, DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                 Empire of Ethiopia
Beneficiaries            The Extension and Project Implementation Division
(EPID) of the Ministry of Agriculture, and the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
(AIDB)
Amount                   US$12.0 million equivalent
Terms                     Standard
Relending Terms          The Government will on-lend approximately US$1.8
million to AIDB at an interest rate of 7-1/4% for
15 years including 5 years grace on principal.
AIDB will on-lend to the Wolamo Farmers Cooperative
Union at 10% per annum which in turn will on-lend
to the cooperatives at 11%. The cooperatives
will on-lend to farmers at 12% per annum.
Project Description       The Project would continue to expand both in
scope and area the investments being carried out
under the first Wolamo Project. The project area
would increase from two sub-districts of Wolamo
under the first project to all seven sub-districts
of Wolamo. Extension, animal health, soil con-
servation and home economics services together
with credit for the purchase of agricultural
inputs would be available to all farmers in the
seven sub-districts of Wolamo. The project would
introduce new services in the first project area,
including livestock development, promotion of im-
proved fodder crops and the establishment of a
primary livestock market and holding ground. In
both the first and second project areas, the
Project would make provision for continued sup-
port and expansion of cooperative marketing centers,
construction of about 600 km of minor roads and
tracks, improvement of rural water supplies and
assistance to rural artisans. To enable WADU, the
project implementing agency, to undertake the above
activities, the project would assist expansion of
WADU's extension, training, technical and adminis-
trative services.
Estimated Costs          Total Project cost net of taxes and duties
is estimated at US$16.0 million with a foreign
exchange component of about US$6.9 million or 40%.
Taxes and duties on project items are estimated
at US$1.3 million. Project costs are summarized
below:



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Foreign
------- us$1'oo  -------      Exchange
Local   Foreign    Total         %
Farm Inputs                           452    1,810     2,262         50
Cooperative Promotion                 603     -          603          -
Roads                                 399      739     1,138         65
Rural Water Supply                    219      219       438         50
Promotion of Rural Artisan:           194     -          194          0
WADU Services:
Extension & Training              2,004      354    2,358          15
Marketing Credit & Cooperatives     304      104       468         35
Livestock                           588      361      949          38
Works & Services                  1,454      538     1,992         27
Administration                    1,256      565     1,821         31
Experimental Program & Studies       67      214       261         76
Sub-total                         7,540    4,964   12,504          40
Contingencies:
Physical at 5%                      375      250       625         40
Price at 12% p.a.                 2,515    1,676     4,191         40
Total                              10,430    6,890    17,320         40
Costs have been estimated at 1973 prices.   A
physical contingency of 5% and a price contingency
of 12% per annum cumulative have been added to all
Project Costs.
Financing Plan:
Source              Amounts
(US$million)                %
IDA                     12.0                   75
Government               3.2                   20
Farmers                   .8                    5
i6.0                  100



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Estimated
Disbursements                       Fiscal Years             US$ millions
1975                       1.4
1976                       2.;
1977                       1.3
1978                       2.0
1979                       2.4
1980                       2.3
Procurement
Arrangements             Equipment, vehicles, fertilizer and other farm
inputs (US$3.5 million) would be procured by
international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank/IDA guidelines. Construction of WADU
headquarters (US$0.1 million) is not likely to
attract international bids and the contract
would be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally. All other civil works (US$1.4 million)
weuld be carried out by WADU force account.
Contracts for goods and services costing less
than US$30,000 would follow Government procure-
ment procedures which are acceptable. Orders
would be grouped whenever possible.
Rate of Return            Economic Return - 17 percent
Appraisal Report          Report No.409a-ET dated June 12, 1974, Eastern
Africa Projects Department, Agriculture Division.






37 41'
E T H I O P I A
SECOND WOLAMO AGRUJLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WOLAMO AWRAJA FIRST PROJECT DEVELOPMENT AREAS                To Hoso,                                                  .
AND EXISTNG ROADS                                                           T. 5hem
BOMBE                                                         RE:A
j   I Deveklnenl Areas                          HEMBsC/HO
Existing I.H.A. Roads                                                                    b
Existing Minor Roods                                         I    A NC                  Holeto
Existing Tracks               g                      ; b              ?Shenio  \    f
Wolomo Awrojo Bournary
*    bWoredo Towns                                                                              Ho=     Awos,o
o Vikiges                                                                    T
O  V;EKPS                      Noreoobrel lo   J  Gurumoaf       /brsT;     - ~o,egbmlKercheche  
-~--~ Rivers                        Bf FUr FMFN7   \  Zone  -      WunJoroo  /K     oe/
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRM                      Kor<e___, BADESA___    /      4 
OKATI v<6049 
6 49'                                             .a
fin' h,.o1,oAr h  hho n  'o  doop,b
in,thj Bo,,A toni ,ttolfii,or,'r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~od
~~~ A'~~~~~T~~~>HN~~~~~I  0  P  A  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Yk--A&
'0  /   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ohg
POt"I"E 0                                                         BA
L"8^-- } ?
Xj~~~N~~A  --AU                                                        3 741'    A'btoMk,cA("~(



3741'
E    T   H      I  0   P     I  A
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WOLAMO FARMING ZONES AND ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES
ZONES. ALTITUDE IN METERS:
C        2100-3000
A&B        1700-2100
D& E       1300-1700                                                                       AREKA
-       Below 1300- Rough Grazing                                                                                D A   M   0  T
Wolomo Awroja Boundary                                                      B 0   L 0   S S 0
...........       Woreda Boundaries
* Woreda Towns
DUGUNA
0700            Contours in Meters                                                                                          BODITI        ..
Rivers........                                                                             . .
KOYSI-I             ,        *            -..O*---               0D    A    M   0    T
T                .       *             '. ~~~~~   ~~~~DAMOT   '{
K 0 Y    B H A                                                                        * . .......... BADESA j/700
BELE......
e ADESA
*                 ,,, -' MOUNTAIN
, /                                      2woo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10  W  E  Y  D  E     /
SODDO
6'4 9                                                                                                                                                                          6 49'
17,(                                         /w  &ntel  ..  ,,,1  ,,  ,@.1 ... ,,11> .llil, s, 1 / *-- -- ... ... 5 0 D O .... ....j...f
j/&                                    KI N D 0   * .                   D                                               /
2'00                  ...~       2100      H    U   M    B   0
7100  *HUM80 
GESUBA                            TABALA                          Np,
F T A.I  .,
AB.8A       501,0ALIA ,
x  -I  -.F
SWAi.s     -, -                          ''     '      '      15    20      25     30                                                       /                                        '0
s ., S i  N . A   - |   ; |  I ! !   i I 1   1TER                                            3741
K. N          5O1L'                                                                                                                   Aay



E    T   H    I   O      P  I   A
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WOLAMO AWRAJA PROPOSED MARKET CENTERS,                                                                                             To Shoshemene
ROADS AND TRACKS
>             Hembichc\~e  a     SECTOR I 
Existing l.H.A. Roads                                                   F;t                                                    
Existing Minor Roads                                                        A&Ia\                                                           ECTORT
Existing Tracks                                                         1 I                     Admcho                   Buge
Proposed New or Upgraded Minor Roads                                  O6J/             AREK4 1                             ,Go /0eo
Proposed Tracks
Wolamo Awrajo Boundary                                                                                                                        Biton  I
*     Woredo Towns                                                                                                  A
*     Existing Market Centers (End I Project)                                                                                                         Ble
*     Proposed Market Center                                                   Z,rire
A      Co-op Union Market                                          BELE                                              K.            BADESA
A      Existing Non Wadu Co-ops
Rivers
-649                                                                          v                                                                                                649-
oit i(/ .... ....li .r.   /Zv                                                                          l  / /z9 Ge,ero \\ 
L                                                    K,.d. Cr         : -i <                     koye       /                             \e     y                   |SECTOR III
Gogoro ~~~~~~~~~//       H
Lake
ADDIS.S .                             5            1OR2          25     3            SECTOR                                            Y /
;t-E    T H 1-  P' 1'                                                                                                 G    h.\~/  
> ROJECT'AREA  1_  7e\
SOM LIA                             KILO METERS                           4E374                           Arbo Minch
1~N   '   /   I?                                                                                             I



