Report No. 409a-ET
Appraisal of Second Wolamo    FILE COPY
Agricultural Development Project
Ethiopia
June 12, 1974
General Agriculture Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be pubitshed, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the repoft.



CURREWCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =   Ethiopian Dollar (Eth$)
Eth$ 1.00           5    US$ 0.483
Eth$ 1 million      =    US$ 483,092
US$ 1.00            =   Eth$ 2.07
WEIGHT AND MEASURE
1 Quintal (ql)      =   100 kg       0.1 ton
ABBREVIATIONS
AItB   -  Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
CADU   -   Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit
0CM    -   Cooperative Marketing Center
DAP    -   Di-ammonium Phosphate
EPID   -  Extension and Project Implementation
Department of Ministry of Agriculture
IEG    -   Imperial Ethiopian Government
WADU   -  Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit
WFCU   -  Wolamo Farmer Cooperative Union
LOCAL ADMINISTRATIVE AREAS
AWRAJA       -      District
WOREDA       -      Sub-district
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WTOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUNMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..............................  i - ii
I.  INTRODUCTION .......................                                              1
II.    BACKGROUND  ...........................................                         2
A.    General  .........................................                       2
B.    The Agricultural  Sector .........................                       2
C.    Government  Services  .............................                      3
D.    Cooperative Development  .........................                      4
III.    FIRST WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHIENT PROJECT  ....                   ....     4
IV.    THE PROJECT  ..........................................                         7
A.    General Description  .............................                       7
B.    Detailed Features  .............................. .                      8
C.    Cost Estimates  ..............          ..      ..................    13
D.    Financing  ....... ............              ....................    14
E.    Procurement  ....... ...........               ....................   14
F.    Disbursements  ...............          ..      ..................    15
C.    Accounts  and Audit  ............          ..      ................    15
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ..........................    16
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FARM BENEFITS  ....                     ..........    17
VII.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ..................    20
VIII.    RECOMMENDATIONS  ......................................    21



ANNEXES
1.   Crop Production Program
Table 1 - District Farm Distribution and Participation in Project
table 2  - Estimate of Farmer Participation
Table 3 - Projection of Farm Land of Participating Farmers
Table 4 - Incremental Crop Production
Table 5 - Gross Value of Incremental Crop Production
Table 6 - Calculation of Fertilizer Prices
2.   Cooperative Development
Table 1 - Cooperative Societies Model Cash Flow
Table 2 - Wolamo Farmer Cooperative Union Cash Flow
Table 3 - WADU's Contribution to Cooperatives
3.  Rural Roads
Table 1 - Cost of Rural Road Construction
Table 2 - Phasing of Rural Road Construction
4.   Rural Water Supply
Table 1 - Costs of Rural Water Supply
5.   Cost of WADU Services
Table 1 - Summary of Costs of WADU Services
Table 2  - Extension and Training Division - Agricultural Extension
(Highlands) Section
Table 3  - Extension and Training Division - Settlement Section
Table 4  - Extension and Training Division - Land Planning Section
Table 5  - Extension and Training Division - Home Economics Section
Table 6  - Extension and Training Division - Training Section
Table 7 - Marketing, Credit and Cooperatives Division - Marketing
and Credit Section
Table 8  - Marketing, Credit and Cooperatives Division - Cooperative
Development Section
Table 9  - Marketing, Credit and Cooperatives Division -
Administration Section
Table 10 - Livestock Division - Artificial Insemination Section
Table 11 - Livestock Division - Animal Health Section
Table 12 - Livestock Division - Production Section
Table 13 - Works and Services Division - Infrastructure Section
Table 14 - Works and Services Division - Workshop and Carpool Section
Table 15 - Works and Services Division - Central Stores Section
Table 16 - Finance Division                    t
Table 17 - Common Services Division - Personnel Section



Table 18 - Common Services Division - Central Services Section
Table 19 - Project Direction Division - Project Management Section
Table 20 - Project Direction Division - Planning and Evaluation Section
Table 21 - Project Direction Division - Trials Section
Table 22 - Project Direction Division - Information and Public
Relations Section
Table 23 - Project Direction Division - Internal Audit Section
Table 24 - Project Direction Division - Legal Section
6.   Soil Conservation Program
Table 1 - Benefits from Bunding
7.   Livestock Development Program
Table 1  - Incremental Offtake of Cattle Resulting from Project
Table 2 - Summary of Financial Benefits
Table 3 - Model 1 Herd Projection
Table 4 - Model 1 Sales
Table 5 - Model 1 Operating Costs and Incremental Income
Table 6 - Model 2 Herd Projection
Table 7 - Model 2 Sales, Operating Costs and Incremental Income
Table 8 - Model 3 Herd Projection
Table 9 - Model 3 Sales and Incremental Income
8.   Coffee Improvement Program
Table 1  - Basic Data and Assumptions
Table 2  - Costs and Benefits
9.   Project Costs
Table 1 - Project Cost by Year
Table 2 - Project Cost by Item
10.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
11.   Farm Budgets
Table 1 - Benefit - Cost Ratio of Fertilizer and Improved Seeds
per Hectare
Table 2  - Benefit Cost Ratio per Farm
Table 3 - Farm Budget Zone A
Table 4 - Farm Budget Zone B
Table 5 - Farm Budget Zone C
Table 6 - Farm Budget Zone D
Table 7 - Farm Budget Zone E



12.   Government Financial Position
13.   Economic Analysis
Table 1 - Project Economic Rate of Return
Table 2  - Crop Program - Economic Rate of Return
Table 3  - Livestock Program - Economic Rate of Return
Table 4  - Soil Conservation Program - Economic Rate of Return
CHART     WADU Organization (World Bank 8527)
MAPS      IBRD - 10952 - March 1974 - Wolamo Farming Zones and Administrative
Boundaries
IBRD - 10951 - March 1974 - Wolamo Awraja First Project Dev. Areas
IBRD - 10953 - March 1974 - Wolamo Awraja Proposed Market Centers,
Roads and Tracks.



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.         When the first significant agricultural development projects were
undertaken in Ethiopia in the mid-1960's, the main emphasis was on comprehen-
sive projects designed to develop limited areas through intensive application
of a number of inputs. Important among such projects have been the Chilalo
Agricultural Development Project (CADU) (established with assistance from the
Swedish International Development Agency) and the First Wolamo Agricultural
Development Project (WADU), assisted by IDA. The Wolamo project has been
successful in demonstrating the efficacy of improved agricultural inputs pro-
vided in conjunction with farmer credit, infrastructure, extension and other
services. The rate of farmer participation in the project has been far better
than was originally expected, and significiant yield increases resulted in
increasing cash incomes for a large segment of the rural population. The
experience gained from the comprehensive projects has more recently been
utilized in the Agricultural Minimum Package Project, which concentrates on
the country-wide distribution of farm inputs on credit to smallholders.
ii.        The proposed Project would continue and expand both in scope and area
the investments being carried out under the first Wolamo project. Although its
main component would be the expansion of crop production through the provision
of farm inputs, it would also introduce on a wide scale improvement of live-
stock through crossbreeding and animal health programs. This would be achieved
mainly through the expansion of WADU's extension, technical and administrative
services. Support would be provided for cooperatives and cooperative marketing
centers, which would provide an institutional basis for the distribution of
credit and the marketing of produce. A soil conservation program would be
established which - through limited land rehabilitation, contour ploughing,
gully stabilization and studies - would help provide the basis for the formu-
lation of a more extensive program of erosion control in Ethiopia. An experi-
mental coffee program would be carried out in an effort to increase crop qual-
ity, yields and production. In addition, the Project would also include pro-
vision for construction and upgrading of rural roads, expanded rural water
facilities, and assistance to rural artisans.
iii.       WADU - the project unit established under the first project - would
continue as executing authority for the proposed Project; however, the Project
envisages the increasing devolution of implementation responsibility to coop-
eratives and to regular Government agencies. The Project is part of a con-
tinuing program; its full benefits would, however, not be attained until the
end of the ninth year when, with continuation of some of the services provided
by WADU and AIDB, the Project would have benefitted about three quarters of
the Districts' 150,000 farmers. On completion, further development could be
undertaken either by means of another specific project, or as part of Govern-
ment's overall development program.



- ii -
iv.        An IDA credit of US$12.0 million is proposed which would cover the
foreign exchange component of the Project and 49% of local costs over the five
year period. This would represent 69% of total Project costs of Eth$35.9 mil-
lion (US$17.3 million), or 75% of Project costs net of taxes and duties. Gov-
ernment would onlend funds for seasonal credit to AIDB at 7-1/4% for a term
of 15 years. AIDB would onlend to WFCU at 10%, and it in turn would onlend to
the registered cooperatives at 11% per annum; these would then onlend to farmers
at 12% per annum. Credit for cooperative marketing centers (CMC's) would be
channelled to farmers through WADU at the above rates. Farmers' contribution
would consist of a 25% cash downpayment for farm inputs and a small cash con-
tribution for rural water facilities. Imported goods, mostly equipment, vehi-
cles, fertilizer and other farm inputs valued at US$3.5 million would be procured
by international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
Construction of WADU Headquarters would be subject to local competitive bidding.
All other civil works would be carried out by WADU force account. Contracts
for goods and services costing less than US$30,000 would follow Government pro-
curement procedures which are satisfactory; orders would be bulked whenever
possible.
v.         At full development about 80% of the net value of incremental pro-
duction would be attributable to crops - notably maize and teff - which would
progressively eliminate the District's dependence on imports from other parts
of Ethiopia.  The Project would also support crop diversification through the
production of cotton, chillies, potatoes and pulses. Total incremental produc-
tion of maize would be 38,000 tons in year 5, rising to 58,000 tons at full
development.  Incremental production of teff would likewise rise from 8,000
tons in year 5 to 13,000 tons in year 12. The Project would also result in
increased livestock output, thus providing expanded quantities of meat and
dairy products.
vi.        The Project's economic rate of return would be 17% over twenty
years. The major risk facing the Project would be an increase in costs;
cost increases of 10% or 20% would reduce the return to 14% and 11% respec-
tively, while a 10% cost increase along with a 10% benefit reduction would
give a return of 10%. Rates of return were calculated separately for the
crop, livestock, soil conservation and coffee programs; each of these in-
d-tviduai returns would be satisfactory. The Project would increase the
cashi incomes of about 73,000 participating farmers:  for owner operators
ULcremental incomes would range from Eth$30 to Eth$144, and for tenants
from Eth$20 to Eth$135 annually.
vii.       This would be the Bank Group's ninth lending for agricultural
development in Ethiopia. Eight IDA assisted projects have been approved: six
iri agriculture - the First Wolamo, Humera, Amibara Irrigation, Coffee Pro-
cessing, and the Minimum Package Projects; two for livestock development -
the Addia Ababa Dairy and the Second Livestock Development Project; and one
to support commercial farm credit - the Agricultural and Industrial Develop-
ment Bank (AIDB) Project. Performance under all these projects has generally
been satisfactory, although considerable delays have been experienced in the
start-up of a number of projects.
viii. The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$12.0 million to
the Empire of Ethiopia.



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The first significant agricultural development projects were under-
taken in Ethiopia in the mid-1960's and the main emphasis was on comprehensive
projects designed to develop limited areas through intensive application of
a number of inputs. Important among such projects have been the Chilalo
Agricultural Development Project (CADU) - established with assistance from the
Swedish International Development Agency - and the First Wolamo Agricultural
Development Project (WADU) - assisted by IDA. The experience and technical
expertise gained from these projects have more recently been utilized under
Government's Minimum Package Program, also supported by IDA.
1.02      The First Wolamo Agricultural Development Project concentrated on
two sub-districts within Wolamo District. The project has been successful
in demonstrating the efficacy of improved agricultural inputs provided in
conjunction with farmer credit, infrastructure, extension and other services.
The rate of farmer participation in the project was far better than was orig-
inally expected, and significant yield increases resulted in greater cash
incomes for a large segment of the rural population. The proposed Project
would intensify and expand these services throughout the District, with par-
ticular emphasis on the introduction of improved livestock production.
1.03      This would be the Bank Group's ninth lending for agricultural devel-
opment in Ethiopia. Eight IDA assisted projects have been approved: six in
agriculture - the First Wolamo, Humera, Amibara Irrigation, Coffee Processing,
and the Minimum Package Projects; two for livestock development - the Addis
Ababa Dairy and the Second Livestock Development Project; and one to support
commercial farm credit - the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
(AIDB) Project. Performance under all these projects has generally been
satisfactory, although considerable delays have been experienced in the start-
up of a number of projects.
1.04      The proposed Project was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture
with assistance of the Bank's Resident Mission in Eastern Africa. This report
is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Ethiopia in
October/November 1973 comprising Messrs. E. Zimmer-Vorhaus, T. Baddar, H.
Malik (IDA) and M. Nightingale (consultant).



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Ethiopia, with an area of about 1.2 million km2 lies in the north-
eastern zone of Africa just north of the Equator. Much of the country is
high plateau 1,500 to 3,000 meters above sea level and dissected by gorges
and broad valleys. Although there is no comprehensive land use data, it is
estimated that over 50% of the nation's land area is used as permanent pasture;
forests and crops each account for an additional 9%. The population of about
25 million is growing at a rate of 2.4% per year. Over 90% of the people
live in the rural areas - some 85% in the highlands - but the urban popula-
tion is estimated to be growing at about 7% per year. Gross Domestic Product
(GDP), estimated at US$2.1 billion in 1971/1972, is growing at about 4.5% per
year, while per capita income is estimated at about US$80 per year.
B. The Agricultural Sector
Main Features
2.02      The agricultural sector is distinguished by a wide climatic and
ecological diversity which allows a large variety of crops to be grown. The
peasant farmers possess a high level of traditional agricultural skills, but
they lack an efficient marketing system, access roads, security of tenure,
credit, extension and veterinary services and improved seeds, as well as
fertilizer and other farming inputs. Thus the peasant sector, which is
largely untouched by modern technology, is characterized by low human and
resource productivity. Although eight of every ten Ethiopians are peasant
farmers, agriculture contributed only about 52% of GDP in 1971/72. Average
total annual family output (at farm prices) is less than Eth$300 (US$140),
and 75% of this represents subsistence consumption. The total value of agri-
cultural output in 1970 was about Eth$1,900 million; cereals, coffee and
other crops accounted for 71% and livestock and livestock products for the
remaining 29%.
2.03      Agricultural products have regularly made up about 90% of total
exports; coffee contributes about 60%, and other major contributors are oil-
seeds, pulses, hides and skins, and animals, meat, fruit and vegetables.
Imports of agricultural products were valued at about Eth$33 million in 1972;
50% of these consisted of cotton and cereals, while the remaining 50% comprised
manufactured food items, notably tea and tobacco. Actual growth of agricul-
tural output during the Third Five Year Development Plan (1968/69 - 1973/74)
was estimated at about 2% a year, less than the rate of population increase.
This may be explained in part by the fact that the planned investment targets
for agriculture were not able to be met due, among other things, to the drop



- 3 -
in coffee prices and the decline in the inflow of private capital.  TLe recent
drought which has been experienced in some provinces will affect crop pro-
duction for many years, as a lack of seeds and work oxen which cannot be
replaced in one year will lead to a reduction in the total cultivated area.
The drought has not significantly affected Wolamo District, however.
The Livestock Sector-
2.04      Ethiopia's livestock includes some 26 million cattle and 12 mil-
lion each of sheep and goats. It is estimated that in 1972 livestock and
livestock products with a total export value of about Eth$60 million
contributed about 29% of total agricultural output. The recent drought has
caused heavy losses of livestock in some provinces and this is expected to
result in an overall decrease in livestock production over the next few
years.
2.05      There are many constraints to livestock development; insecure land
tenure arrangements deprive the farmer of incentives to control stocking, to
plant fodder crops, improve pasture, or develop stock watering facilities.
Diseases are a further constraint; it is estimated that 1.2 million cattle
and 2 million sheep and goats (mostly young stock) are lost to disease annually.
Uncontrolled grazing and stock breeding have also denuded vast areas of range-
lands. The cattle are traditionally viewed as a supply of work-oxen rather
than as a source of money income, and this attitude would have to be consider-
ably changed before modern livestock management could have a major impact among
peasant farmers.
C. Government Services
2.06      Up to 1971 the extension services of the Ministry of Agriculture
were limited and there were only about 100 extension staff available. In
1971 the Extension and Project Implementation Denartment (EPID) was created
to provide technical and administrative supervision of agricultural devel-
opment projects. EPID has considerable administrative autonomy in personnel
and fiscal management, and in 1973 employed over 250 extension staff. In
addition to carrying out limited extension activities outside ongoing project
areas, EPID acts as the agent of the Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank (AIDB) in areas where no cooperatives exist; it thus distributes farm
inputs, handles credit accounts and collects repayment from farmers.
2.07      The Veterinary Services Department of the Ministry of Agriculture,
staffed by about 50 veterinarians located throughout the country, is respon-
sible for disease control, meat inspection and quarantine services; it also
provides diagnostic and clinical facilities to farmers and is responsible for
animal health education. The Livestock and Meat Board (LMB), a parastatal
agency created in 1964, is charged with improving the livestock economy and
with promotion of livestock production and sales.



- 4 -
2.08      There  is no national homogeneous grain market in Ethiopia, as
production areas are widely separated and inadequate transport facilities make
the movement of grain from one location to another difficult. Other marketing
problems include the absence of accurate market or price information outside
the network of traders and merchants, failure to enforce standard weights and
measures and a shortage of capital to carry and store grains. A project to
help alleviate these difficulties is now under preparation.
Credit and Supply of_Inputs
2.09      In the past there has been little institutional lending to small
farmers, partly because of lack of cooperatives or farmers groups, and partly
because of inadequate institutions at the national level. Farmers generally
obtain credit from merchants, wealthier farmers or relatives and interest
rates on this borrowing can be as high as 10X a month or more. AIDB was
established in 1970 to meet the financial requirements of agricultural, in-
dustrial and commercial enterprises by providing long, medium and short-term
loans and equity investments in commercially viable development schemes.
Agricultural Inputs and Marketing Services (AIMS) was established as a sub-
sidiary of AIDB to procure and import agricultural inputs for distribution
to cooperatives, farmers and agricultural development projects. An IDA
Credit of US$11.0 million was provided in 1972 to help AIDB expand its op-
erations in industry, commerce and agriculture. The Credit included funds
for an agricultural credit survey to be carried out by consultants; this
study is now nearing completion.
D. Cooperative Development
2.10      In 1966 the Cooperative Development Department was established in
the Ministry of National Community Development and Social Affairs (MNCD).
This Department is responsible for the promotion, registration, audit, in-
spection and supervision of cooperatives as well as assisting them in the
marketing of agricultural produce. The Department has 55 professional staff,
and operates a training center for staff and cooperative members. By June
1972, 116 cooneratives had been formed under its supervision. The 67 multi-
purpose agricultural cooperative societies established have a total member-
ship of 15,000 persons and a share capital of Eth$1.5 million; forty of these
have been registered and 27 are in the process of formation. Societies provide
marketing, credit and supply services; in June, 1972 registered societies had
an annual turnover of Eth$7.7 million and outstanding loans amounted to Eth$9.8
million.
III. FIRST WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
3.01      The First Wolamo Agricultural Development Project (1970) was de-
signed to be the first six-year phase of an integrated intensive program to
provide farm inputs, infrastructure and extension services in densely popu-
lated highland areas, and to establish new settlements in less habited savanna



areas. The project was located in Wolamo District (Awraja) of Sidamo Province,
which has an area of about 3,180 km2 and a population of about 730,000. Al-
though not significantly affected by the recent drought, the district is
typical of the backward conditions prevalent throughout the highland areas.
Development was concentrated in two of Wolamo's seven subdistricts and the
Project was implemented by the Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit (WADU),
established as special unit within the Ministry of Agriculture. The IDA
Credit of US$3.5 million covered about 69% of total project costs of US$5.1
million.
3.02      The first project aimed at improved crop production for about
6,000 farmers in the highland areas of the District and the settlement of
some 1,750 families on 6 ha farms in two new or reorganized settlements.
This was to be achieved through the provision of land planning and settlement
advice; road construction, land clearing and soil conservation; water supplies;
extension services including a farmer training center and a livestock inno-
culation campaign; construction of marketing and coffee processing centers;
and agricultural credit for improved seed, fertilizer, and farm implements.
These services were designed to increase production of maize, wheat, teff,
seed cotton and chillies, to improve the quality of coffee produced in the
region, and to improve the health of livestock herds. In order to facilitate
distribution of inputs and credit, and to provide a mechanism for credit'col-
lection and the marketing of produce, five marketing centers (four in the
highlands and one in settlements) were included under the project. Primary
cooperative societies were to be set up at each market, and it was envisaged
that at a later stage a cooperative union would be formed to take over re-
sponsibility for the centralized services provided by WADU.
3.03      The project was slow in getting started, mainly due to delays in
staff recruitment and coordination problems with local authorities. However,
implementation has since progressed well and project funds are now expected
to be fully committed by mid-1974, about 18 months ahead of schedule. The
early completion date can be attributed mainly to a significantly higher rate
of farmer participation over that expected at appraisal, resulting in higher
per year expenditures (about 20%) on farm inputs and related extension and
marketing services. To a limited extent this increase has been offset by
lower than expected expenditures on some services - notably the provision
of rural water supplies.
3.04      The most significant achievement of the project has been that more
farmers than expected at appraisal participated in the extension program,
which concentrated on the introduction of improved inputs and included advice
on animal husbandry and home economics. Thirteen extension areas (as opposed
to the five originally projected) have been established, each organized around
a marketing center. Associated with each marketing center is a cooperative,
which farmers interested in receiving credit joined after payment of a nominal
registration fee; in 1973/74 about 7,200 farmers had received short term credit
totalling about Eth$400,000 through these centers. Interest on loans was set
at 12%, and repayment of credit has been excellent, averaging about 97% over
the first three years.



-6-
3.05      As the first project is still in operation, data on the last project
year (1973/74) achievements is still tentative. However, best estimates are
that by Year 4 (1973/74), incremental production under the project would equal
that originally forecast for Year 5. The total value of incremental production
of all project crops (maize, cotton, coffee, chillies, teff,wheat and sorghum)
is now estimated at Eth$1.6 million in Year 4, as compared with an appraisal
estimate of Eth$1.0 million.   Yields have been significantly higher than
expected, due mainly to the enthusiastic response of farmers to the improved
farm inputs. For example, actual yields of maize were already beyond those
forecast (2,000 kg/ha as opposed to 1,300 kg/ha), as were those of wheat
(1,700 kg/ha as opposed to 1,200 kg/ha) and cotton (1,000 kg/ha as compared
with 560 kg/ha).
3.06      The land tenure situation in Ethiopia is unsatisfactory and pre-
sents a severe constraint on any far-reaching attempt to modernize the
agricultural sector. The position in Wolamo is no exception: while the
average holding is about 1.5 ha, tenants - who constitute about half of the
farming population - cultivate an average of only about 0.5 ha and make rent
payments to their landlords both in kind and cash plus some labor contribu-
tion. Although livestock plays an important role in the farming system,
there is virtually no common grazing land and the highly fragmentized system
of farm production tends to discourage farmers from making any significant
changes in their current practices. Despite these fundamental difficulties,
progress under the first project has shown that owner operators and tenants
can gain important benefits from a soundly based comprehensive development
program. Accordingly, while land reform must be regarded as central to any
fundamental improvement to the rural life of Ethiopia, expected benefits
under a second project in Wolamo would not be dependent on changes in the
present land tenure system and expected improvements in tennants' incomes
would be sufficient to ensure their participation.
3.07      While physical progress in establishing the settlement schemes pro-
"ided under the first project has been satisfactory, Government has been slow
to legalize settlers rights of tenure. Accordingly it would be a condition
of Credit effectiveness that Government would have issued leases to these
settlers on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
3.08      USAID furnished the project's total third and fourth season require-
ment for fertilizer, thus releasing for other purposes the revolving fund of
some Eth$280,000 which had been accumulated through farmers' repayment of
input credit. Under the proposed Project these funds would be retained and
used at WADU's discretion to meet the ongoing working capital requirements of
the cooperatives. Assurances were obtained that WADU would provide IDA with
audited statements of the revolving fund at the end of each financial period.
3.09      The first project has demonstrated the effectiveness of a broadly
based rural development program, and the willingness of farmers to respond
to the provision of credit where it is accompanied by extension advice and
other supporting services. Thus far, however, the project has reached only
a small proportion of the District's population. The proposed Project would
seek to extend existing and new services throughout the District.



-7-
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Project would over five years continue and expand the rural
development program initiated under the First Wolamo Development Project to
increase the productivity and incomes of small farmers. It would provide
credit for incremental agricultural inputs, support for cooperative develop-
ment, facilities for livestock development, and technical and administrative
services to established small farmers. 1/ While WADU would continue as
executing authority, the Project envisages the increasing devolution of imple-
mentation responsibility to cooperatives and to regular Government agencies.
4.02      The specific Project components and their relationship to services
in first project areas would be:
(1) In first project areas (two of W4olamo's seven sub-districts) the
Project would provide:
(a) Extension services to farmers not participating under
the first project and incremental agricultural inputs
and related credit, animal health, soil conservation
and home economic services for all farmers whether
participating or not;
(b) The introduction of new services, including livestock
cross-breeding, promotion of improved fodder crops, and
the establishment of a primary livestock market and
holding ground.
(2) Throughout the remaining areas (five sub-districts) not covered by
the first project, the Project would include: the introduction of
extension, elementary animal health, soil conservation and home
economics services, together with credit for the purchase of
agricultural inputs.
(3) In both first and second Project areas the Project would provide:
(a) Continued development and operational support for 13
cooperative marketing centers (CMC's) - four of which
have become registered cooperatives - and the Wolamo
Farmers Cooperative Union established under the first
project;
1/   The first project included provision for the settlement of 1,750 farmers;
however, the proposed Project would not include a settlement component as
land available for further settlement has not yet been identified. Pro-
vision would be made under the Project for a study to meet this need
(para. 4.21).



- 8 -
(b) Establishment of a further 39 CMC's, construction of about
600 km of minor roads and tracks (including upgrading of
tracks built under the first project), improvement of rural
water supplies, assistance to rural artisans, and the pro-
vision of expanded administrative services.
4.03      The Project is part of a continuing program extending the devel-
opments initiated under the first project. Its full benefits would, however,
not be attained until the end of the ninth year when, with continuation of
some of the services provided by WADU and AIDB, the Project would have
directly benefitted in varying degrees 100,000 farmers - about three quarters
of the Districts' farmers. On completion, further development could be under-
taken either by means of another specific project or as part of Government's
overall development program, according to what may be appropriate at that
time.
B. Detailed Features
Farm Inputs (Annex 1)
4.04      Project farmers would receive seasonal credit at an interest rate
of 1% per month for up to 11 months for the purchase of fertilizer (about 85%
of total inputs), improved seed, pesticides, tools and implements. In con-
formity with national policy, farmers would contribute 25% of the input cost
in the form of a cash downpayment. It is expected that 73,000 farmers (50%
of all District farmers) would have received credit by year 5, and about
100,000 (70% of all District farmers) would have been reached by year 9.
Cooperative Development (Annex 2)
4.05      The Project would establish an additional 39 Cooperative Marketing
Centers (CMC's) which would be responsible for the distribution of farm in-
puts and credit, repayment collection, and marketing of produce. Until regis-
tration as independent, self regulating cooperatives - expected about three
years after establishment - CMC's would be owned and operated by WADU, which
wvould pay the full cost of their staff. After registration this subsidy would
be gradually phased out to 75% of staff costs in year 4, 50% in year 5, 25%
in year 6, and zero by year 7. The Project would provide CMC's with simple
stores, offices and equipment towards which farmers would contribute - as was
successfully done under the first project - 50% of construction costs by
providing voluntary labor and some materials; the balance would be met by
WADU which would lease buildings and equipment to the CMC's free of charge.
Upon registration as a cooperative they would receive credit to acquire from
WADU buildings and equipment on terms and conditions approved by IDA.
Assurances to that effect were obtained. All registered cooperatives would
join the existing Wolamo Farmers Cooperative Union (WFCU) which would pro-
vide accounting, marketing and other support services and which WIADU would



- 9 -
join as the representative of the CMC's (para 4.13). Project funds for
credit for farmers enrolled in registered cooperatives would be channelled
directly from AIDB to WFCU, which in turn would onlend the funds to the cooper-
atives. Funds for CMC's would be channelled through WADU.
Rural Roads (Annex 3)
4.06      The Project would provide for the construction of 366 km of minor
roads and 235 km of tracks, including the upgrading of tracks constructed
under the first project to minor road standard. Minor roads would be pass-
able by 4-wheel drive vehicles during the rainy season, and would cost (exclud-
ing capital costs of equipment) an estimated Eth$4,200 per km; dry weather
tracks would be cleared and levelled at an estimated cost of Eth$1,200 per km.
Pending completion of a Government study to determine which agency should have
responsibility for rural road construction and maintenance throughout the
country, WkTADU would continue to be responsible for Project road construction.
The Project would provide additional road equipment to supplement that pro-
vided under the first project. As District revenues are now inadequate to
meet road maintenance costs, assurances were obtained that Government would
assume this specific responsibility.
Rural Water Supplies (Annex 4)
4.07      Rural water facilities in the Project area are inadequate, and plans
for the construction of piped water supplies in settlement areas as part of
the first project were not implemented due to the shortening of the project
period. The proposed Project would thus provide for pipelines and storage
tanks in settlement areas at an estimated cost of Eth$486,000, as well as
for the construction of wells, installation of hydrams, spring protection and
water storage in the highlands at a cost of about Eth$420,000. The cost of
construction and paintenance of these facilities would be recovered by water
charges in settlgaent areas. Elsewhere - in line with current practice - local
communities and the District administration would each contribute 25% of the
total costs; the balance would be covered by a WADU grant to the local com-
munities which would also maintain the facilities. Some 60,000 farm families
would benefit from these facilities. Assurances were obtained that the design
for the water supply system for the two settlements would be submitted to IDA
for comments before implementation.
Assistance to Rural Artisans
4.08      A variety of rural craft activities have emerged in Wolamo District
including cotton spinning and weaving, and the manufacture and repair of
farmer tools and equipment. However, up to this time no training has been
available for some 1,500 local artisans now involved. Because the needs have
not yet been clearly defined, WADU would prepare a small training program to
be included in the Project. The program is expected to include the training
and employment of instructors, and the extension of credit for the Purchase
of tools and equipment and spare parts for water supply facilities. Assur-
ances were obtained that 1WADU would submit this program to IDA for approval
before implementation.



- 10 -
WADU Services (Annex 5)
4.09      The Project would provide for WADU extension, technical and adminis-
trative services. Costs of these services (paras 4.10 - 4.19) were derived
from estimates of the total cost of the WADU program including the costs of
both the first and the proposed second projects; these costs were then allocated
on a pro rata basis between the two projects. Project costs thus include all
capital costs and about 85% of the recurrent costs of the program. Basic
services to farmers already participating under the first project would continue
under financing provided by Government outside the Project.
Extension and Training
4.10      Extension services provided under the Project would include demon-
strations with fertilizer and improved seed, organization of farmer groups
and advice on improved agricultural practices. To meet Project needs an
intensive farmer extension service would be required. Extension staff would
be built up over the Project period, and in year 5 would total about 200
persons including extension agents, senior demonstrators and demonstrators.
By Project completion the ratio of farmers to demonstrators throughout the
Project area would be about 500:1.
4.11      The Project would extend the soil conservation program established
under the first project (Annex 6). Demonstrators would supervise and train
farmer self-help groups working on contour plowing, gully stabilization and
land rehabilitation through tree planting; fourteen small tree nurseries would
be established to provide planting material at a nominal charge to farmers.
It is expected that 4,200 ha/year or a total of 21,000 ha would be protected
as part of this program.  Extension advice on home economics would also be
expanded; provision would be made for about 42 field workers, supporting
staff and equipment.
4+.12     The Project would also expand existing facilities at the Training
Center established under the first project. About 200 demonstrators and 600
rarmers would receive basic and advanced training over the Project period,
Marketing, Credit and Cooperative Services
4.13      The Project would through WlADU provide support services to CMC's,
registered cooperatives, and to the Wolamo Farmers Cooperative Union (WFCU)
knara 4.05).  These services would include help in processing credit applic-
atIons, collection of repayments, and ordering and distribution of farm in-
puts. WADU would advise WFCU and cooperatives on marketing procedures and
the collection of marketing data, and would provide financial, accounting
and other administrative services. It is expected that by year 9 WFCU would
assume full responsibility for these services. The Project would also pro-
vide for training of cooperative staff and assistance with registration.
These services would continue after the Project period either under WADU or
under the auspices of the Cooperative Department of the Ministry of National
Community Development.



- 1 1 -
Livestock Development (Annex 7)
4.14       The Project would extend the cattle crossbreeding and animal health
programs initiated under the first project. The crossbreeding program would
be concentrated in first project areas, and would eventually involve about
50,000 head of cattle (25% of the area herd) owned by about 7,000 farmers;
the remaining farmers with about 150,000 head would profit from the improved
standard of husbandry, and the fodder production and pasture improvement
programs carried out by the expanded livestock extension service. Fertilizer
and seeds for fodder crops, minerals and feed would be made available through
credit extended by the CMC's. In addition a small poultry up-grading program
would be introduced. To meet these needs the Project would include buildings,
machinery, equipment and staff for a Project farm which would produce both
Friesien bulls for the crossbreeding program and cocks for the poultry program.
4.15      A vaccination campaign and animal health services initiated under
the first project would be continued and expanded into the remainder of the
Project area with the addition of increased diagnostic support services and
extension staff. Credit would be made available through WADU for drugs,
although following Government policy, vaccinations themselves would be given
free of charge.
4.16      The Project would also establish a primary livestock market within
Wolamo District to facilitate the marketing of the Project's incremental an-
nual offtake - eventually reaching about 14,000 head. The market would be
owned and operated by the Livestock and Meat Board (LMB), which is respon-
sible for the livestock marketing program established under the IDA supported
Second Livestock Project. To serve this market WADU would set up and operate
a 1,000 ha holding ground.
Works and Services
4.17      The Project would provide continued support for WADU services,
including construction of a central headquarters building and water supply
to staff quarters and offices. The WADU workshop would be expanded to allow
maintenance and repair of the increased number of WADU vehicles and machines.
WADU Administration
4.18      WADU's administrative services would be expanded under the Project.
The existing division covering both Finance and Common Services would be se-
parated into two new divisions. The existing legal, audit and information
and public relations activities would receive additional support, as would
personnel, central services and purchasing sections.  Responsibility for
purchasing would be gradually taken over by EPID, whose Evaluation Unit would
also assist WADU's Planning, Evaluation and Budget Control Unit. Assurances
wdere obtained that WADU would adopt Project evaluation procedures acceptable
to IDA.



- 12 -
4.19      Under the Project the work of the crop trials section would be
expanded. Main emphasis would be on diversification of cash crops, fodder
crops and the response of both to fertilizers. Stores, offices and equipment
would be provided at six trial sites and at WADU headquarters. Project crop
trials are necessary to obtain data on local conditions, and would supplement
the work being carried out on a national scale by the Institute of Agricultural
Research (IAR). Hitherto there has been little coordination between these
programs, and therefore an assurance was obtained that an appropriate system
of research coordination would be set up between the Project and the IAR.
Experimental Program and Studies
4.20      Despite Ethiopia's heavy dependence on coffee both as a cash crop
and for its export earnings (para 2.03), production, yields and quality are
generally low. The first project provided some extension services aimed at
improving cultivation techniques, and under the Project these activities would
be developed through an experimental program which, if successful, could be
extended nationally. (Annex 8) Under this program extension advice would be
provided to about 1,000 participating farmers each year (5,000 over the Project
period). Demonstrators would stump one-seventh (about 25 bushes) of the coffee
bushes belonging to each farmer. As this would temporarily involve a loss of
revenue, farmers would be compensated by a cash subsidy of Eth$10 in the year
of cut-back, and fertilizer would be provided over five years free of charge
(equivalent to Eth$5 per farmer).
4.21      As part of the Project WADU, with the assistance of consultancy
advice where necessary, would also carry out three special studies:
(a) A monitoring program for the soil conservation program
(para 4.11) to provide data for the formulation of a more
extensive program of erosion control in Ethiopia;
(b) A study on the suitability of available land for further
settlement within the District; and
(c) A study of control and use of ranching land within the District.
Assurances were obtained that terms of reference and staffing arrangements
for these studies would be submitted to IDA for comment before commencement.
ECo10gY
4.22      There are not expected to be any adverse effects on the environment
as a result of the Project. The soil conservation program would help to
significantly reduce further erosion within the Project area.



- 13 -
C. Cost Estimates (Annex 9)
4.23      Project costs were derived from estimates of the total cost of the
WADU program, which includes the ongoing activities of the firstA'*ADU project.
Project costs include all capital costs and about 85% of the rec&rent costs
of the program, the percentages being determined by the total number of farmers
benefitting from the first and second projects (para 4.09). Total Project
cost including taxes and duties is estimated at Eth$35.9 million (US$17.3
million), of which about US$6.8 million or 40% would represent foreign exchange.
Project costs are summarized below:
Foreign
-- Eth$'000 -----  ------ US$'000 -----   Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign Total   %_ _
Farm Inputs               936   3,746   4,682    452    1,810  2,262         80
Cooperative Development1,249    -        1,249    603      -        603     -
Roads                       825   1,532   2,357    399        739  1,138      65
-Rural Water Supply         454     453      907    219       219    438      50
Assistance to Rural       400    -         400    194       -       194      -
Artisans
WADU Services:
Extension & Training 4,148       732   4,880  2,004       354  2,358       15
Marketing, Credit &    629       339     968    304        164    468      35
Coonerative Services
Livestock Developmentl,218       747   1,965    588       361    949       38
Works & Services      3,011   1,113   4,124  1,454        538  1,992       27
Administration        2,601   1,169   3,770  1,256        565  1,821       31
Experimental Program &   139       442      581     67       214    281      76
Studies                                         _
Sub-total            15,610  10,273  25,883  7,540    4,964 12,504        40
Contingencies:
Physical                777      518   1,295    375       250    625      40
Price                 5,203   3,469   8,672  2,515    1,676  4,191         40
Total                21,590  14,260  35,850 10,430    6         17,320    40
Goods and services for the above activities are detailed in Annex 9, Table 2.
Cost have been estimated at mid-1973 prices. A physical contingency of 57 and
a price contingency of 12% per annum cumulative have been added to all Project
costs reflecting the rates of the latest IDA guidelines. Taxes and duties on
Project items would be Eth$2.8 million (US$1.3 million).



- 14 -
D. Financing
4.24      The financing of Project costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
US$'000         %
IDA                                                   12,000         75
Government                                             3,220         20
Farmers                                                  800          5
Project Cost Net of Taxes and Duties                  16,020        100
Taxes and Duties                                       1,300
Total Project Cost                                    17,320
The proposed IDA credit of US$12.0 million would be on standard terms to
Government.  This would finance the foreign exchange cost and about 49% of
local costs, or about 75% of total Project costs net of taxes and duties.
Government would onlend funds for seasonal credit for farm inputs (US$1.8
million) to AIDB at an interest rate of 7-1/4% for a term of 15 years with
5-year moratorium on principal. AIDB would onlend to WFCU at 10% per annum;
WFCU would in turn onlend to the registered cooperatives at 11% per annum,
and these would then onlend to farmers at 12% per annum. Credit for the CMC's
would be channelled to farmers through WADU at the above rates. Government's
contribution net of taxes and duties would be about Eth$6.6 million (US$3.2
million). Farmers contribution would represent the 25% cash downpayment for
farm inputs and a small cash contribution for rural water facilities. In
addition, farmers would also contribute unpaid labor to assist in the con-
struction of cooperative buildings and rural water facilities and in the soil
conservation program. All other Project funds would be channelled through
WADU. Government would continue to make available to WADU quarterly and in
advance the funds necessary to carry out WADU's annual work plan which WADU
would continue to submit in advance of each fiscal year for IDA approval.
Assurances as to the above terms and arrangements were obtained at nego-
tiations. The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between Government and
AIDB would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. Government would bear
the foreign exchange risk.
E. Procurement
4.25      Equipment, vehicles, fertilizer and other farm inputs (US$3.5 mil-
lion) would be procured by international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank/IDA guidelines. Construction of WADU headquarters (US$0.1 million)
is not likely to attract international bids and the contract would be awarded
to the lowest bidder on the basis of competitive bidding advertized locally.



- 15 -
All other civil works (US$1.4 million), which would be carried out in dif-
ferent locations and over a period of time, would be carried out by WADU
force account. Contracts for goods and services costing less than US$30,000
would follow Government procurement procedures which are acceptable; orders
would be grouped whenever possible. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that the above procedures would be followed and that for all con-
tracts exceeding US$30,000, draft tender documents would be submitted for
IDA's approval before bid invitations, as would bid evaluations with recommen-
dations before award of contracts.
F. Disbursements (Annex 10)
4.26      Disbursements of funds from the Credit would be on following basis:
(a) 100% of CIF or 69% of total costs of vehicles, machinery
and equipment and incremental farm inputs including fertilizer,
improved seeds, and pesticides (US$2.7 million);
(b) 69% of total costs of civil works for roads including salaries,
construction material and operating costs of construction ma-
chinery (US$0.6 million); civil works for buildings (US$0.2
million); WADU's contribution to salaries of staff of marketing
centers and cooperatives, and to costs of cooperative buildings
and equipment (US$0.4 million);  studies on soil conservation,
availability of land for settlement, and use of ranching land
(US$0.2 million); assistance to rural artisans (US$0.2 million);
(c) 50% of total costs of the water supply for farmers and the two
settlements (US$0.2 million);
(d) 59% of total program costs of WADU salaries and operating expenses
(US$4.3 million);
(e) an unallocated amount of US$3.2 million representing contingencies
on the above categories and transferable to them as required.
Disbursement on all items would be made against import documents and appropriate
records of expenditure certified by the Project Director and the Finance Officer.
Any funds remaining on the Credit Account upon completion of the Project would
be used at the Association's discretion for the continuing development of the
District.
C. Accounts and Audit
4.27      The First Wolamo Agricultural Project had a high turnover of account-
ing staff and the simple accounting system was not properly maintained; farm-
ers' credit accounts, accounts of the revolving fund and the internal control



- 16 -
system were unsatisfactory, and the accounting system did not provide manage-
ment with prompt and informative accounts relating expenditures to budget.
Three new officers: the Finance Officer, the Internal Auditor and the Con-
troller of WADU's Marketing, Cooperative and Credit Division were recently
appointed to supplement WADU's existing staff, and a new accounting system
prepared by WADU's External Auditor is now being implemented. The Internal
Auditor is setting up new internal control procedures under which a budget
control officer would be added to WADU's Planning and Evaluation Section.
It is expected that with the addition of this new staff and the introduction
of improved accounting and budget control systems, WADU should be able to
produce accounts adequate to meet the needs of the Project.
4.28      Under the Project WADU's staff would be considerably expanded in
size and functions. Therefore, all CMC's although owned by WADU would be
treated as self-accounting units, as would the WFCU and the registered
cooperatives. Assurances to that effect were obtained at negotiations. As
the Project farm and the workshop would be revenue producing units, they would
adopt the accounting procedures necessary to adequately reflect the results
of their operations. Further assurances were obtained that: (i) WADU's
annual accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA,
and (ii) all CMC's and registered cooperatives would be audited semi-annually
by the Controller of the WFCU under WADU supervision, and the cooperatives
and WFCU would be audited annually by the Registrar of Cooperatives. Assur-
ances were obtained that these audited accounts would be submitted to IDA no
later than six months after expiration of the accounting periods.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01     1WADU would have overall responsibility for Project implementation,
and would continue to operate as a self-contained unit of EPID. The inter-
ministerial committee which was responsible for coordination of the First
WoLamo Project activities has been superseded by a Ministerial Committee
chaired by the Minister of Agriculture; this committee was recently estab-
lished to develop general policies for and to oversee coordination of all
comPrehensive agricultural development projects in Ethiopia.  The Wolamo
District (Awraja) Development Committee chaired by the Wolamo Governor, es-
tablished under the first project, would be reconstituted on a broader basis
to link Project activities with other development in the District, and to
Lacilitate Project operations such as construction of roads and rural water
ftc.lities.  Members would include the Director of WADU, District repre-
sentatives of ministries, governors of sub-districts, farmer representatives
anid the chairman of the WFCU. Development committees would also be estab-
lished in each sub-district.
Project Administration
5.02      The Director of WADU would have direct responsibility for the
organization and administration of the Project. WADU would have six main
operating divisions (chart): Extension and Training (responsible for



- 17 -
agricultural extension activities, the coffee experimental program, land
planning and soil conservation); Marketing, Credit and Cooperatives; Live-
stock (responsible also for the Project farm); Works and Services (responsible
for roads, buildings, water supplies, repair and maintenance of vehicles and
equipment); Finance; and Common Services (responsible for personnel, central
services and minor purchases).  In addition, five units would report directly
to the Director of WADU: Planning, Evaluation and Budget Control; Information I
and Public Relations; Legal; Internal Audit; and Crop Trials.
5.03       The first project was successful in recruiting local staff to fill
a number of senior staff positions, including the Director of WADU. However,
to meet the expanded activities and the new services proposed under the Proj-
ect, it would be necessary to provide for the international recruitment of
seven staff for varying periods ranging from two to five years. These would
include: Deputy Director of WADU, Heads of the Extension and Training and
the Marketing and Credit Divisions, Heads of the Cooperative Development,
Artificial Insemination and Animal Health Sections, and Head of the Planning
and Evaluation Unit. Staff for three of those positions have previously been
recruited internationally under the first project. Assurances were obtained
that IDA would be consulted prior to appointments or reappointments to the
posts of Director of WADU, Heads of the Extension and Training, the Marketing
and Credit, and the Finance Divisions; and Heads of the Cooperative Development
and Artificial Insemination Sections.
Coordinating Agencies
5.04       EPID would provide assistance with Project monitoring and evaluation,
and in addition would gradually assume increased responsibility for all Project
procurement with the exception of farm inputs (which would remain the respon-
sibility of AIDB). The Wolamo Farmers Cooperative Union (WFCU) would onlend
and collect credit and would provide support services to all registered co-
operatives; these services would include distribution of inputs and marketing
of produce. The existing agreement between EPID/WADU and AIDB which sets the
terms and conditions of EPID/WADU's responsibility for input distribution and
extension and collection of credit as the agent of AIDB would be extended to
cover the Project period. The extension of this agreement and the conclusion
of a loan agreement between WFCU and AIDB on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FARMERS BENEFITS
Production
6.01       At full development about 80% of the net value of the Project's
incremental production would be attributable to food crops, notably maize
and teff, which would progressively reduce and eliminate the District's
dependence on imports from other parts of Ethiopia (para 6.05). Using the



- 18 -
experience gained under the first phase, the Project would promote diver-
sification by the production of cotton, chillies, potatoes and pulses in
addition to the experimental coffee program. Yields, areas receiving Project
inputs and total incremental production are detailed below; except for an
extension of the total cultivated area by 20% (and a corresponding reduc-
tion of fallow land), total incremental production would be attributable to
increased yields.
Yield /1  Yield /1   Project/i    Estimated          Total         Total
Without   With    Incremental      Total        Incremental   Inc. Prod.
Crop    Project   Project   Yield       Project Area  Prod. Year 5   Full Dev.
(ql/ha)  (ql/ha)   (ql/ha)         (ha)           (ton)         (ton)
Maize     8-25      22-35     10-14        32,000          38,000        58,000
Teff      3.5-9    10          1-6.5       16,000           8,000        13,000
Wheat     9         18         9            1,200           1,000         2,000
Cotton    1-9        6-13      4-5          3,000           1,000         1,300
Ginger    5         10         5            2,000           1,000         1,200
/1   Ranges representing different zones within the Project area.
In addition, the Project would result in limited production of lesser crops
including chillies (300 tons), irish potatoes (1,000 tons), haricot beans and
peas (600 tons).
6.02      Increased livestock production would result from three Project
comDonents: the crossbreeding and artificial insemination program, the
animal health and the livestock marketing components, and the intensified
extension service - which would also promote improved fodder production.
These Project components would result in total incremental annual sales of
9,800 head in year 5 and 14,000 head by year 12. The gross value of incre-
mental production would be about Eth$1 million in year 5, rising to Eth$2.3
milliorL in year 12.  In addition, by full development some incremental dairy
produce surplus to farm requirements would be available for sale in local
markets; this would be valued at Eth$1 million in year 12.
Marketing and Prices
6.03      There is at present no national grain market in Ethiopia 1/, and
although crop prices broadly reflect international commodity trends, they
are subject to wide regional and seasonal variations. As Wolamo is at present
a substantial net importer of food grains, it is expected that about 70% of
the Project's grain production would be consumed within the District and the
balance sold elsewhere in neighboring areas. Prices adopted (Annex 1, Table
5) are those based on recent first project experience; as compared with prices
1/   It is expected that a crop marketing and storage project now under
preparation will soon be submitted to IBRD for consideration.



- 19 -
assumed under the Minimum Package Project (mid-1972) - the latest IDA study
of Ethiopian grain prices - they show a price increase of about 60% for maize
(from Eth$8 to Eth$14 per quintal) but only a small increase for teff (from
Eth$19 to Eth$20 per quintal).
6.04      Ethiopia procures the fertilizer necessary to meet the requirements
of all projects by annual contract. Prices adopted for the Project are those
applying for the 1973/74 season; these show significant increases over farm
gate costs assumed under the Minimum Package Project (from Eth$38 to Eth$59
per quintal for DAP and from Eth$31 to Eth$50 for urea). While Project dif-
ferences (inputs, location, yields) do not enable a close comparison, for
maize cultivation the Project estimates a cost benefit ratio of 1:1.9 as
compared with 1:1.8 under Minimum Package. The ratio for teff shows a decline
from 1:3 to 1:1.8 which, while still offering reasonable inducement, is ex-
pected to result in a decline in farmer response; this expectation has been
reflected in Project planting programs. In the current uncertain conditions,
no price changes have been projected for inputs or crops; it is, however,
expected that any further increase in fertilizer costs would be reflected in
grain prices and that the cost benefit ratio of crop production would in the
light of recent experience remain broadly as indicated above. As of April
1974 the relation of international prices for grains and fertilizer had not
deteriorated. In 1973/74 Government introduced a small subsidy to temporarily
offset recent increases in fertilizer prices. As Government has not yet
decided whether to continue the subsidy, no account has been taken of it in
Proj ect calculations.
6.05       Cash crops produced under the Project (notably ginger, chillies,
pulses and cotton) would be sold at local markets and at present prices.
Quantities are not significant, and as some of present requirements have to
be imported into the District, no major price changes are anticipated. Milk
products (including ghee), poultry and meat are also expected to find ready
markets in the area (marketing of the latter would be assisted by a holding
ground and primary livestock market to be established under the Project)
(para 4.16).
Farmers Benefits (Annex 11)
6.06      Farmers estimated benefits have been based on five illustrative types
of farm enterprise that would be financed under the Project - each associated
with one of the five main ecological zones. The two zones covering invest-
ments under the first project, A and D (the latter representing settlement
areas), would mainly benefit from the livestock improvement program, par-
ticularly the crossbreeding program. Farmers in Zones B (constituting three-
quarters of all Project participants) and C would benefit from increased crop
production and elementary animal health services, while those in Zone E would
increase crop production and benefit from improved poultry production. Annex
11 shows that for owner operators (excluding settlements) the increase in
net incomes would range from Eth$42 to Eth$72 in Zone C and from Eth$235 to



- 20 -
Eth$380 in Zone A; tenants' incomes would increase from Eth$28 to Eth$48 in
Zone C and from Eth$181 to Eth316 in Zone A annually at full development.
The expected range of cost benefit ratios should be sufficient inducement
for farmers to use anticipated farm inputs. Tenants (who represent one half
of Wolamo farmers) pay rent partly in cash and partly in grains, but not in
livestock products; this should provide an incentive to their participation
in livestock development programs.
Government Budget and Foreign Exchange (Annex 12)
6.07      Government revenues from the Project would arise mainly from:  (a)
taxes on Project machinery, vehicles and equipment, and (b) the margin of
interest on the loan to AIDB. The Project would result in an increase in
recurrent Government expenditure (mainly for staff salaries) which would not
be matched by incremental revenues. The resulting annual deficit is projected
to be about Eth$1.5 million (US$0.7 million) up to year 15, when it would
increase to about Eth$2.0 million (US$1.0 million) per year. This compares
with a recurrent buget of Eth$17 million for all Government agricultural
services in 1973/74.
6.08      About 25% of Project annual incremental grain production of 50,000
tons by year 6 (mainly consisting of maize) is expected to offset imports of
grain into Ethiopia at a saving of about US$1 million. Project incremental
livestock production would not materially affect Government's foreign ex-
change position.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The Project would intensify and expand the rural development
program initiated under the first project. It would at full development
(in year 9) substantially increase the cash incomes of about 100,000 par-
ticipating farmers, or about 70% of all farmers in Wolamo District. Through
the establishment of cooperatives, it would provide an institutional basis for
credit distribution and the marketing of produce. The livestock services
would improve the quality of local herds through crossbreeding and animal
health programs. The soil conservation program would through limited land
rehabilitation, contour ploughing, gully stabilization and studies, help pro-
vide the basis for the formulation of a more extensive program of erosion
control in Ethiopia. The provision of improved roads and rural water facil-
ities would benefit the entire District population; in particular, the roads
would facilitate the extension program and the marketing of crops. The ex-
perimental coffee program would directly help to increase the quality, pro-
duction and yields of one of Ethiopia's most important export crops. Thus,
while providing important direct benefits to a large segment of the rural
population, the Project would provide a firm basis for the further develop-
ment of the District.



- 21 -
7.02       The Project's internal economic return has been calculated separately
for the four main components: crop development, livestock development, soil
conservation and coffee improvement. Costs and benefits from rural water
supply, assistance to rural artisans and studies were excluded because bene-
fits cannot be quantified. In calculating the rate of return to the economy,
all foreign exchange costs and savings have been valued upward by 33% to re-
flect more adequately the value of foreign exchange to Ethiopia. Farmers
incremental labor has been shadow priced as zero because of lack of alterna-
tive employment opportunities. At this time it cannot be determined to what
extent the recent increase in international grain prices will affect local
prices in Ethiopia. Therefore, 1973 projections for local grain prices were
used, although these are considerably lower than 1974 international price
projections; for this reason 1973 fertilizer prices were used, although these
are also lower than 1974 prices (para. 6.04).
7.03       Under these assumptions the Project's internal economic return
over 20 years would be 17%. (Annex 13) The major risk facing the Project
would be an increase in costs; cost increases of 10% or 20% would reduce the
return to 14% and 11% respectively, while a cost increase of 10% and a benefit
reduction of 10% would reduce it to 10%. The rate of return without shadow
pricing foreign exchange would be 17% for the total Project, 16% for the crop
program, 21% for the livestock program, 11% for the soil conservation program
and 26% for the coffee program.
7.04       Given the current uncertain world market situation, there would
be some risk that the price relationship of fertilizer to grain would change
unfavorably. If this were to happen, farmers participation in the Project
might decrease as only the more efficient farmers could use fertilizer pro-
fitably. However, some costs of WADU's services (80% of which are for
salaries and operating costs) could be reduced in relation to the number
of participating farmers. All capital investments are either related to the
number of staff and can be reduced accordingly or have an independent economic
value. Therefore, a deterioration of the price ratio of fertilizer to grains
is thus unlikely to have a serious adverse effect on the economic return of
the Project.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01       During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  Government would assume responsibility for maintenance of
roads and tracks constructed under the Project (para. 4.06);
(b)  Before implementation WADU would submit to IDA the design for
water supply for the two settlements for comments (para 4.07),
its program for assistance to rural artisans for approval
(para 4.08), and the terms of reference and the staffing
arrangements for the three studies to be carried out under the
Project for comments (para 4.21); and



- 22 -
(c) IDA would be consulted prior to appointments or reappointments
to the posts of Director of WADU, Heads of the Extension and
Training, the Marketing and Credit and the Finance Divisions;
and Heads of the Cooperative Development, and the Artificial
Insemination Sections (para 5.03).
8.02       Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be that:
(a) Government would have issued leases to the settlers
established under the first project under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 3.07);
(b) A subsidiary loan agreement between Goverrment and AIDB
would have been signed (para 4.24); and
(c) The agreement between AIDB and EPID/WADU which sets the
terms and conditions of EPIDfWADU's responsibilities would
be extended to cover the Project period, and a loan agree-
ment would be concluded between AIDB and WFCU under terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 5.04).
8.03       The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$12.0 million to
the Empire of Ethiopia.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Production Program
1.        The Project's most important component would be the improvement of
crop production through use of inputs (fertilizer, improved seeds and pesti-
cides). Some additional improvements in crop output would also be expected
from extension services, cooperative development, and other activities supported
by the Project. The increase in production would be determined by the number
of farmers using improved inputs, the area under crops, the cropping patterns
and the expected yield increases caused by the improved inputs.
2.        Farmer Participation.  It is now estimated that at the end of the
first project about 10,000 farmers and 1,750 settlers would have used improved
inputs. By the end of the Project period (year 5) it is expected that 73,000
farmers (49% of all District farmers) would participate, and that about 100,000
farmers (70% of all District farmers) would have been included by year 9.
Extension services would be provided by WADU's Extension, Training and Land
Planning Section. Demonstrators, senior demonstrators and extension agents
would advise on improved agricultural practices and use of improved implements,
and would carry out fertilizer and seed demonstrations, and provide training
for farmer group leaders. Each demonstrator would be expected to supervise
an average of about 500 farmers.
3.        Cropped area, cropping patternsl/1and yield increases are shown in,,
the model farm budgets (Annex 11, Tables 3-7). Estimates of yield increases
are based on first project experience and extensive crop trials carried out
during that period. Estimated cropping patterns are based on a Central
Statistical Office national sample survey and on appraisal findings. An
increase in cultivated area of about 20% (and a corresponding reduction in
fallow land) has been anticipated due to expanded fertilizer use. Farmers
would increase their areas under grains, cotton and chillies accordingly.
4.        Farm Inputs.  Fertilizer would account for about 85% of all farm
inputs. The recommended rate of application would be 1 ql per ha of di-
ammonium phosphate (DAP) on cereals, cotton, ginger and chillies and 2 ql
per ha on irish potatoes. DAP would be supplemented by 0.5 ql per ha urea
on maize, and haricot beans and peas would receive phosphate only. Improved
seed would be made available for cereals, chillies, cotton and pulses. Overall
seed requirements are modest and no difficulty is expected in obtaining
supplies from existing sources. Pesticides would be used on cotton, chillies,
haricot beans, maize and teff. A successful spraying program developed in
settlement areas during the first project would be extended. Cost of seeds,
pesticides and other inputs were estimated at 15% of the total cost of the
Project's fertilizer requirements.
1/   Changes in the cropping pattern have been assumed to take place in year 5.
March 12, 1974






ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
District Farm Distribution and Participation in Project
Farm Area of
Elevation                                       Zone      Total FarE, Number of        Farmers     Participating Farmers-
(m)                Status                 Designation  Population-/ Total 2/   Participating    Total  Per Fara
ha      ha
Above 2,100    Highlands                         C           42,000      15,000         10,000        8,000    0.8
1,700-2,100    Highlands, First Project 4/       A)                      10,000         10,000       13,000    1.3
1,700-2,100    Highlands                         B)         371,200    114,000          80,000       80,000    1.0
1,300-1,700    Lowlands, Settlements,
First Project                  D)                       1,700          1,700        9,000    5.0
1,300-1,700    Lowlands                          E)          231,200      8,000          5,000       12,000    2.5
Below 1,300    Nomadic area                      F            56,ooo       -                           -
Totals                                       700,400    91 004/        107,00O/   122,000
i/  Source:  1963 Census and 1966 Rural Sample Survey - assuming 96% of rural population are farming.  Population
increase estimated at 2%/year.
2/  Source:  1963 Census and 1966 and 1969 Rural Sample Survey - assuming average farming family 4.7 persons.
3/ Estimated at 70% of farm land in Zones, B, C, E; for Zone A (see 4/).
IT/ All highland farmers who participated under First Project are designated Zone A. There is no geographical
or ecological difference between Zones A and B. Therefore participation of Zone A farmers is 100%.
5/ Rounded.                                                                                                             t 
May 20, 1974                                                                                                             H  I



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURALT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimate of Farmer Participation
Year                      0         1         2          3         4          5         6          7         8          9       Total
Zone
First Project Farmers!!/
A                                10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000
D   (Settlements)                 1,700     1,700      1,700     1,700     1,700      1,700     1,700      1,700     1,700      1.700     1,700
Total First Project              11,700    11,700    11,700   _1,700    11,700   _11700 1         ,700    11,700    11,700    11,700    11,700
Second Project Farmers
B                                  -        6,000    10,000    14,000    12,000    10,000    10,000        9,000     5,000      4,000    80,000
C                                  -          500      1,200     1,200     1,200      1,300     1,300      1,300    1,300        700    10,000
E                                  -          500        500     1,200        800       500        400       400        400       300      5,000
Total New Farmers
By year                        -         7,000    11,700    16 400    14 000    11,800    11 700    10,700        6,700     5,000    95 ooo
Cumulative                     _        7,000    18,700    35  10       90       60,900    72,600    83,300    90,000    95;ooo    95 ooo
Total Participating Farmers
Cumulative                   11,700    18,700    30,400    46,800    60,800    72,600    84,300    95,000   101,700   106,700   107,000
In percentage of all
farmers in Districts/        8%       13%        20%       31%       41%        49%       57%        64%       68%        72%        72%
1/  Farmers who started to use fertilizer under First Project.
2/  Estimated at 149,000 in 1974 
February 28, 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projection of Farm Land of Participating Farmers
(ha)
0         1         2         3          4         5         6          7         8        9        Total
ZONE
Second Project Farms
B                             -        6,000    10,000    14,000    12,000    10,000    10,000       9,000      5,000    4,oo0    80,000
c                             -          600      1,000     1,000     1,000     1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000      400     8,000
E                             _         1,400     1,000     3,000     2,000      1,000     1,000     1,000      1,000      600    12,000
Total Incremental
Farm Area                 -         8,000    12,000    18,000    15,000    12,000    12,000    11,000       7,000    5.000   100,000
First Project Farms
A   Highlands               13,000    13,000    13,000    13,000    13,000    13,000    13,000    13,000    13,000   13,000    13,000
D   Settlements              9,000      9,000     9,000     9,000     9,000      9,000     9,000      9,000     9,000    9,000      9,000
Cumulative Area of
participating farmers     22,000    30,000    42,000    60,000    75,000    87,000    99,000   110.000   117,000  122,000   122,000
February 28, 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Incremental Crop Production
('000 ton)
Year                         1         2        3        4        5         6        7         8        9     10 onwards
Maize                        6.10    10-.40    18.10    24.1     37.5     44.5     49.0      53.0     56.0     56.o
Sorghum                     0.73      1.73     2.93     3.13    (3.8)    (2.5)    (3.5)    (3.6)    (3.6)    (3.6)
Teff                        1.06      1.40     2.00     2.20      8.06    10.06    11.06    12.06    13.06'\  13.06
Wheat                       0.10      0.30     0.40     0.50      1.00     1.00     1.00      2.00     2.00     2.00
Barley                      0.10      0.30     0.40     0.50    (0.40)   (0.40)   (0.50)   (0.50)   (0.50)   (0.50)
Cotton                      o.47      0.50     0.60     0.80      1.00     1.10     1.20      1.20     1.30     1.30
Chillies                    0.21      0.21     0.29     0.30      0.30     0.40     0.40      0.40     0.40     0.40
Ginger                      0.13      0.30     0.40     0.40      1.0      1.1      1.20      1.20     1.20     1.20
Haricot Beans               0.24      0.27     0.30     0.40      0.40     0.50     0.50      0.60     0.60     o.60
Field Peas                   0.04     0.1      0.2      0.2       0.4      0.4      0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5
Irish Potatoes              0.10      0.4      0.5      1.00      1.00     2.00     2.00      2.00     2.00     2.00
March 11, 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLANO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Grosa Value of Incremental Crop Production A!
Year                                     1        2         3         4          5         6          7          8         9         10
Eth$/ton-------------------------_--_-------- Eth tOOO - -----------------------------------------
Maize                           140      -       854     1,456      2,534     3,374     5,250      6,230      6,860     7,420      7,840
Sorghum                         120      -        88       208        352       376       (456)3/   (300)      (420)     (432)      (432)
Teff                            200      -       212       280        400       440     1,612      2,012      2,212     2,412      2,612
Wheat                           160       -       16        48         64        80        160       160        160       320        320
Barley                          120       -       12        36         48        60        (48)       (48)      (60)       (60)      (60)
Cotton                          600      -       282       300        360       480       600        660        720       720        780
Chillies                        650      -       137       137        189       195        195       260        260       260        260
Ginger                          600      -        78       180        240       240        600       660        720        720       720
Haricot Beans                   300      -        72        81         90       120        120       150        150        180       180
Field Peas                      150       -        6        15         30        30         60        60         75         75        75
Irish Potatoes                   50      -         5        20         25        50         50       100        100        100       100
Gross Value of Incremental
Crop Production
Total District                      -    1,762      2,761      4,332     5,445      8,143     9,944    10,777    11,715    12 395
Zones B, C, E/                              602     1 499     3.172      4.225      7,217     8.742      9,707    10,645    11,340
1/ Production of total District incremental to that of last pre-project year; value of production attributed one year after
expenditure on inputs to account for time lag between purchase of inputs and sale of products.
/ Prices at farmgate, nearby markets or cooperative stores.
/ Value of unimproved-production on area diverted from sorghum to other crops.
/ Excluding First Project areas for economic calculation.
April 16, 1974



ANNEX 1
Tabl1e 6
ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Fertilizer Prices 1
(Eth$ per ton)
D.A.P.         UREA
c.i.f. Djibouti                       (US$164.0)      (US$130.0)
c.i.f. Djibouti                           339.3           266.5
Transport to Addis                         70.7            70.7
c.i.f. Addis                               10.0           337.2
A.I.M.S. Finance Charge 2/                 19.2            15.4
A.I.M.S. Profit 2/                         10.0            10.0
A.I.M.S. Overhead Charge                   11.0            11.0
Addis Price (pre tax)                     450.2           373.6
Turnover Tax (2% pre-tax price) 2/          9.0             7.5
Addis Cash Price                          h59.2           381.1
A.I.M.S. Bad Debt Chargel/ & 2/ & 3/       16.8            14.0
Addis Credit Price                        776.0           39$.1
Transport to Wolamo 4/                     50.0            50.0
Wolamo Cash Price                         509.2           431.1
Wolamo Credit Price                       526.0           44.1
Mark Up (15% Wolamo Cash Price) i/         76-3            64.6
Cash Price to Farmer                      585-            495.7
Credit Price to Farmer 6/                 602.3           $09.7
Interest (@ 12% OD 75 
Cost) 2/  8/                   54.2           45.9
Total Credit Price to Farmer              656.5           555.6
Economic Price 7/                                         398.2
Quotations - July 1973.
2/ Excluded from Economic Price.
3/  Calculated as 5% on 75% of Addis pre-tax price.
Including cost of transport to cooperative store.
:/ To cover cooperative costs but actual cost included in
economic analysis.
6/ Price (before interest charges) adopted for crop budgets.
7/ Wolamo Credit Price less 2/
8/ Interest charged at 1% per month for 12 months.
April 11, 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOND  1)41AMO ACRICLLTUEAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Cooperative Soci-ci-s Model Cash Flow
(Eth$ )
UiLt         Yr I           Yar 2           Yea 3           ya  4          Yer 5                             Year 6          Year 7          Year 8          Yar 9- S
Ulit     Co-C      No.       S      So.       5     No.      S     No.            No. .               To-eD         No.       $        No.         Na.                     $
CASH INFLOW
DsgDaEratOoD  fee 5/                           1          1     225    225       225   225       225   225    375       375    450    450           1,500
Sh-re -ob-oriptiOn 2/                         1         10              -               -              -    1,050  10,500    450  4,500            15,000
WADU  oo- for C.pital Costs 3/                                        6.500             -              -                -               -           6.500
Sub-tot-1                                                     ,    6 ,725            225             225          1U,h75           4,950         23,000               -               -                               -
Annual Devenue:
Dnterest on iDput  -redit at S7 p.a.                                     80             160            240              320             540         1,340               540             540             540              540
Mark up on fEr-ili-er ar 12Lf/ p.a.                                   1,112           2,224          3,336            4,448          7,418         18,538             7,418           7,418           7,418            7,418
WADU con- ribti-on 4/                                                 3.300          3,612           3,955            3249            2166         16282              1083                              -                -
Sub-t-ol                                                           4,492           5,996           7,531           8,017          10,124         36,160             9,041           7,958          7.958            7,958
To-dS  -ash lofloo                                                 112217          6,221           7,756           18,892         15,074         59,160             9,041           7,958          7 ,958           7,958
CASE OUTFLOW
Capital Co-e:
OffMce and Store equipment                     1     1,800            NODS              -              -                -               -           1,800               -               -               -                -
T0015 Hod iplements                           1        200              200             -              -                -               -             20o               -               -               -                -
n.Oldi.g _ office/Dtore 5/                           4,500            4,500             -              -                -                           4,500
U010  RegistraEion f-- -                                                                                               150             -             150
rfoal c..I  al 00500                                                6,5SO             -              -                150             -           6,650               -               -               -                -
R-  rrent Cos t:
Persoonol 6/
Se-roeary                                   1      1,200         1  5.2Sf       11D320           1 1,452       1   1,597        1  1.597          7,166          1  1,97         1  1.597       1  1,597             1,597
Clork                                       D        060              960       11D,056          1 1,161       1   1.2ff        0  1,077          5,73D          1  1,077        1  1.2707      1  1,277             1,277
G ,ord                                      1        48f         1    400       5     520        1   501       1      639       1    639          2,067          1    639        1    639       1    639               639
Cas..l Labor-e                              1        480        1    480        1    528         D   58       1      630       1     639         2.867          1    639       1    639        1    639               639
SllboiEtc-  &    o1Ohi-o  Ilcwonce          1        120        1    D2S        1     120        1   120       1      120       1    120            600          1    120        1    120       1    120               120
lledicl                                      I        20         3     60       3      6 0       3     0        3      6 60     3      60           300          3      60       3      60       3     60               60
Total sLtff 000ts                                                   3,300          3,612           3,955            4,332          4,332         19,531             4,332           4,332           4,332            4,332
foolo, statDonery, 000.                                                 100             150            200              250             300         1,000                300                            300      300      30D
B,EDdin  maintenance 7/                                                 450             450            450              450             450         2.250                450             450            450              450
ToaD recurrent - ose                                                3,850          4,212           4,605            5,032           5,082        22,781             5,082           5,082           5,082            5,082
Contingency S 1270                                                      847              69              81             230             352          1,509               479             606            606              606
Repay-ent of WADU L..0                                                   -              -               _                540            540          1  0D0              540             540             540              540
TotaD caeh outfl-o                                                 11,397          4,281           4,686            5,952           5,974        32,090             6,101           6,228           6,228            6,228
SURPLIJS/(DEFICIT)                                                         20          1,940           3,070          12,940           9D100         27,070             2,940           1,730           1,730           1,730
CUMUIATIVE SURPLUS/(DEFICIT) 8/                                            20          1,960          5,030           17,970          27,070         27,070            30,010          31,740         33,470           45,580
T-or-e-d Debt -fe,lico. 'd  -1                                            -              -               -                39]             "I1           7P2               0 l            391             390              391
fr'0PuJS/(1fEbICIT)                                                                    4,340           3,770          li,,143          t, 03         26,284             -,54)           1,3/            1,339            1,339
CLr'LATIV E 000PLUW/$r700IT)'                                             20           1,9(D           5,13'          17,-70          bO2t    ,_ 9 3              t       ,0y8a        30),17(         31,515           32,854
I/ R.gi-.rario  fee of Eth$ 1.00 to be p.id by earh  ember.
2/ Share aubscrritou  of Eth5 10.00 tt be paid by HerO membtr on registrati-o.
3/ WADOU inereIr free loan for oasEl cots of offiEe/store  (Eth$ 4,500), ond eq,l pmen, i        0-1-   Ef Eh$ 2,000 to be repaid o,,or 15  -e-rs 10i01di0 g 3 ye-ro groce per-od.
4/ WADU' a contibution of SODO  of staff nosEs do-iog the firsL  3 years, 757. -o year 4, 507. in year 5, and 257 in year 6.
5/ Tota1 ofice snore costa Eth$ 9,000, 507. .o..d be cotrtibuted by  -aroer  theroogh volunotry labor Hd  -,ppl, of loal .             a. er. l D.
6/ 10/. an-oal iiOOe.so in salaries for yoar 2-4, -onstaDt thereafEer.
7/ 8             nildi g  taoneoeraa  10T of cash roses.
E/ E1ch .oopeeati-e -ooDd  -reate a re.er.        fond equal no 205, of their annual rDos-c-i-0s (shoot Eth$ 12,000 by yran 5) so no/er bad debts and other conein3encDes.
AMy sorpDlu  On excess uf these re-Iedenrs wolf be utilited D0 -opandino teilr acEivities, on redoring rheir eark-of on Earmr ipnut  on En Psoeot of dividends
Eo esembers.
o/ Inoresse of debt ser-ice if  Ont-rnot of 9.50  ror or-   n     -dr worD be cfng,ed on WAD0   Lon L- ara 4. )5).
I- In di.0 thr  yonre y     e as / before r-gSiorttif-  n       - n :op-rOtive-o-trty.
May 21, 1974



ETHIOPL'
SECOOI l0M OLA7t9   lCELTEI, DVr.LOMIEST rOJEC?
wol.   76r", Coo   *oio U01. 0006h F1t
TU.t        Y-  I           Y- 2           Y.aa. 3         Y.- 4            T-TS                        TV *           Te r            T1       a      T_r * - LS
VIto    Coot      No.       S     No.      S      No.      5     No.       S     No.       S      Ttotl      Ilv       8     Ho.       5     8..      S0
Sh,.0  Sub.-iptxou
0ADU                                                                   6,00              -              -               -               -        6.000             -                -               -
t10007 co -rtiL-. 1/  2                                                                  -                            1,950           2,2S0      4.200           1.200              450
WADH'. 44.  foe qtip_Dt _                                               8.000             -                                                        ,00                                                                  -
UAD1'. Conttibotio- to  taff  -ca 1/                                   60.660         66,084          72,051          S8.96l          39,M30    297,064          19,654              -               -
INtOOIt 00 lOpot .t.dit 4/                                              2,080           5.360          9,280          13,440          21,240     51,400          25,420           27,420          28.080             288S0
Nark-up OD f-etili-  ..1. of 2V%                                        5,772          14,874         25,752          37.296          58,512    142,206          69.684           75.282          77.064 v7.064
inTc   fto - wk.ti.   oper-t-on. 3/                                    13,44          19.560          27. 120         37.020         47.400    145.440           56.580           60.960          62.400             60.10
To-al ..h iflo-                                                      95,952         105,878        134,203         149,567         168,710    654,310         172,538          164.112         167.6A             167.54
CAH 4LrnOU
Capital Coot:
BNildiog - non Itoc.                            1    20,000              -                           20,000             -               -       20.000             -                -
Eq..ip.tt .o,d Rifle.                                                  8.000                            -                                        8.000                              -               -                  -
Total  .pit.t1 oO.t                                                    8,000             -           20,00 -0                                   28,000                      -               -                          -
R0.ooooct Coat
Persona-t
High L.-.                                       1      9,600      3   26.000      3   3,1680     3   34.848      3   38,333      3   38.333    171,96        5  38,333       3    8,333 5  233.255                  2M.333
Hidd1  17-el                                    1      5,4W       3   162W00     3   17,820      3   19,603      3  21.S62       3   21.562     96,747       3 21,532        5   21.562       3  21.562             21.562
C.hi-e                                          1      3.600      1    3,600           3.960     1   4,356       1   4.792       1   4.792      21.000       1  4,792        1    4.M72       1   4.792              4.792
WoOgblng Clerk                                  1      1 440      1    1.190      1    1,50       1    1,742     I       1       1      197       8,600      1   1.917       1    1.917       1   1.917              1.917
CopY/typi.t                                     1       1,800     1    1,00       1     1,980    1    2,178      1    2,304      1    2,396      10.750      1   2.396       1    2'36        I   2,f                 .6
ffie. boy  etc.                                 1        480      5    2,400     5    2640       5    2,904      5    3.394           3.194      14.332      5   3,194       5    3.194       S   3.194 51594
Allovno
AU.ovec                                         1          20    12      240             240    12       240    12      240    12       240       1,200     12      240     12      240             2S0                3U0
ClothiA8                                        1         60      3      180             180     3       10     3      180      3      180        90        3      180      3      180             ISO                7JI
Trovelli.g                                     yr.     6,000           6,000           6,000          6,000           6,000           6,000      30,000          6.000            6,0 00          6,000              6.000
T7t.1 .t.ff .. 0t                                                     60,660          66,084          72,051         78,614          78,614    356,023           70,614          78.614          78.614             7N.614
KoLtnano-  of boildiog  6/                                             10,000          10,000          10,000          10O,O         12,000      52,000          12,000           12.000          12,000            13,000
lecor2no. of  cocee                                                     2,000           2,000           2,000          2,0WW           2,000      10.000          2,000            2,000           2.00              2.00
Stotlonaty  aod eoo1.                                                     500           2,0W            2,000          2.000           2,000       h.500           2,000           2.000           2v000              2.Otl
Comoloiotioc  6  teotiog.                                               2,W0            4,0000W 5,               000  5,DO             S,00       21.000           5.WW  5OOOSO                      500               5,000
T.t.1 eaoorece 00.0.                                                  75,160          84,084          91.050          97,614         99,614    447,522           99,614           99,614          99,614              9,8u1
Contiggency e 12% 7/                                                    2 702           2,164           4,682          4,643           7 236      21.427           9 S94           11.958          11.  0             18,960
R0p:y-net of WADU Lboo 2/                                               7 200           7,200           7,200           7,200          7,200      36.000           7.200            7.200           7.200              7.200
Total ...h outflov                                                    93,062          93,448         122,932         109.457       114,050      532,949         116,408          118,772         118,776            118,774
sURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                                         2,890         12,430          11,271          40,110        54,660      121.361          56,130           45.340          48.770             *8.770
CU1ltDATIVE SURPLUS/(DEFICIT) A/                                          2,890         15,320          26,591          66:701        121.361     121.361         177,491          222,831         271,601            612.971
In-re-,ed Debt Serviln  on WADU LoEn 2/                                  6,596           6,596           6,596           6,596         6,596       32,980           6,596            6,596           6,596              6,596
SU0PW0S (DEFICIT)                                                        (3,706)         5,834           4,675          33,514        48,064       08,381          49,534           38,744          42,174             42,174
CUIMLILATIVE SUPPLUS (DEFICIT)                                           (3,706'         2,128           6,803          40,317         88,381      88,381         137,915          176,659         218,833            261,007
1' U0i00 -n,  :.hi p L.a of $50 aod ahbrt .-ba.tipti-o of $100 I   oyable on rooL.tr.tion.
2/  Ioee.t f-t- I   oo co f_t WADu of Eth$ 8,000 for p9-oh.eO  of equlpoent ropayolle ol er 15 yesrs together  1ith
-   8100.0 oecofo tld-         _ _         r
S/ wAD2' , oetie44ioo oi 100  of  -ff .oO..  docieg the fi0-t 3 y-0.. T,2 1,   S -t 4, sot n Y700
5 ad and 25% 00 y-ac 6.
/  In.t.t e 1% p. . on. r-dit et.odod to fe.ar. foe input..
V/  5% of ..1. - fitgr ba..d  -0 -0a1 WADU erkotinO  op .atio-a i0 1972/73 vhtbh *vr-g- 21.200 per ...t.,
6/  Calnolatd e 10% of 00t.
7/ Caloolot.d on capital and r               tcorent 00.0. enoloding  taff  0... t oniriboted by WADU (0.0 3  bove).
I/ The OUion  -old  -r.at.a a.cv-  fond  qeu-l to 1OX of it0.  akting oper-ti-oo   (oboI 0Eh$ 100,000 b,
yeor 3). A0y  orpl.  -.2uld be otili.d in   p-adig th0. OM00. -toloti.e  1 redodoig it0. .i0 op
on 2 l   ot forI  inpUt. or in p7.0t of diidood. t0 th. fdivid.al -oop.rti-e.
2/  Enoroce of debt enrioe if iotore-t of 9.51 per .000  voold be charged on WADU Loan (p00. 4.05).
H y 21, 1974



EThIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICOTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Progras and Project Capital and Recurrest Costs
WADU'S Contribotion to Cooperatives
(Eth9)
Unit       Year I         Year 2        Year 3         Year 4         Year 5                       Year 6         Year 7         Year 8         Year 9         Year 10       Years 11-1B *
Unit    Cost     No.      $     No.      $     No.     $     No.      $     No.      $       Total        No.     $     No.      $     No.      $     No.      $     No.       $           9
Share Sobs-ription it Cooperative Union                                  6,000             -              -             -              -           6,000             -             -              -              -               -
Interest Fen  Loana:
(for eapitnl rants)
Cooperative Union                                                      8,000             -              -             -              -           8,000             -             -              -              -               -              -
Pre and Regiatered Societies                      No,   6,500    13  84,500    15  97,500       8  52,000      3  19,500             -         253,500             -
Contribution: I/
(to staff .o.ts)
Cooperative Unino                                                     60,660         66,084        72,051         58,961         39,308        297,064        19,654
Pre and Registered Societies                                      26  85,800    26  93,912   26  102,830    26  84,474    26  56,316           423,332    26  28,158              -
-     15  49,500   15   54,180    15  59,325    15  48,735          211,740    15  32,490    15  16,245               -              -               -              -
-             -      8   26,400     8  28,896      8  31,640         86,936      8  25,992     8  17,328       8  8,664              -               -              -
-             -              -      3   9 9oo      3  10 836         70,736      3  15 R69     3   q 707       3  6a Qa       3    98                --
Total                                                                244,960        306,996       307,461        261,056        186,835      1,307,308        118,159        43,320         15,162          3,249               -             -
Loan Repsyneots:
Cooperative Union 2/                                    7,200          7,200          7,200          7,200         7,200          7,200         36,000          7,200         7,200           7,200         7,200           7,200         36,000
Pre and Registered Sotieties 3/                   No.     540             -                        -   -       13  7,020    28  15,120          22,140    36  19,440   39   21,060    -39 21,060        39 21,060       39 21,060        126,900
Net Contribhtion                                                       237,760        299,796        300,261        246,836       164,515      1,249,168         91,519         15,060        (13,098)       (25,011)        (28,260)      (162,900)
Net Contribotion in Econoomi  Analysts 4/                              244,427        306,463        306,928        253,503       171,182      1,282,531         98,186         21,727         (6,431)       (18,344)        (21,593)      (129,565)
1/  WADU's contribotion of 100% of staff costs doring first 3 yearn, 75% in year 4, 50% in year 5 and 257% in year 6.
2/  Incldes pri-nipal repaynent of loans for 15 years otr tt$1ff,OdO   for buildings completed under the First Project and Eth$8,000 for equipenot.  Interest if charged to rover adounistration roots of WADII or its erooasor.
3/  Principal repay-not of loan of Eth$6,500 per cooperati-e oocioty  vcr 15 Yearo including 3 y-ar- grrac  period.  Onlnterest see 9,
_/  Repay-ent of $100,000 it  (2) above added back for ecoonoic onolysin.
R Nepregents total anounto to be repaid dn,rjrg the yearn 11 to 18.
May 21, 1974






ANNEX 3
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Road Program
The Project road program would be designed to connect all new
extension and marketing centers with existing district and Imperial Highway
Authority (IHA) roads. It would facilitate supervision of extension, marketing,
livestock (both production and veterinary) and other Project activities and
would improve transportation of inputs and produce within development areas.
Two types of roads would be constructed: minor roads and tracks. In areas of
anticipated higher transport volumes, 366 km of minor roads would be con-
structed; this would include the up-grading to minor road standard of tracks
built under the first project. In order to allow for further penetration of
the development area, 235 km of tracks would also be constructed.
2.        Detailed planning and construction would be the responsibility of
WADU's Infrastructure Section of the Works and Services Division; it would
use machinery owned by WADU (some of which would be provided under the
Project) and labor would be hired directly by WADU. WADU would consult the
local administration and farmers' representatives on the size of land to be
reserved or expropriated by the local administration as well as on alignments
and standards of roads. WADU's Legal Unit would assist the local administration
in clearing property claims.
3.        Maintenance.  No organization exists as yet with overall authority
for road planning, construction and maintenance, although Government is
currently reviewing the results of a study commissioned to determine which
organization should have these responsibilities. Assurances were obtained
that Government would arrange for the maintenance of roads and tracks built
under the Project. Average maintenance costs (10% of construction costs
annually) for roads built under the first and the second Project are estimated
below:
Eth$
1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80 onwards
26,000    75,000   118,000   154,000   181,000         206,000
Road Standards
4.        Minor Roads.  These would be dry weather roads passable by light
4-wheel drive vehicles during the rainy season. Minor roads would have a
width of 6 meters, ditch depth of one meter, 14 meters clearing width, a
maximum gradient of 12%, and adequate drainage structures, depending on soil
type. Some stretches would be surfaced with selected local materials.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Alignment would seek to avoid steep gradients and sharp curves. Average
costs, excluding depreciation and interest on machinery and including WADU's
road construction personnel, all other labor, material and operating cost of
machinery are estimated at Eth$4,200/km.
5.        Tracks.  Two types of tracks would be constructed.  Those in areas
where a rapid increment in transport volume is expected would be built with
all necessary road elements - roadways, shoulders, ditches, and temporary
drainage structures -;for later upgrading to minor road standard by construction
of more permanent drainage structures. They would be passable by light
vehicles in the dry season, and would be used mainly for Project extension and
supervision activities. For the remaining tracks, bush and trees would be
cleared by machinery or labor and no drainage structures would be built;
these would be designed mainly to facilitate non-vehicle transport. Average
costs of all tracks, excluding depreciation and interest on machinery but
including WADU's road construction personnel, all other labor, material and
operating cost of machinery are estimated at Eth$1,200/km.
Phasing of Construction
6.        As indicated below.  Wolamo District has been divided into six
sectors for planning purposes.
Sector I (Northern Sector) located between the IHA road Soddo -
Hossana (now under construction), which it includes and the IHA
road Soddo - Shashemane.
Sector II (Northeast Sector) located between the IHA Soddu -
Shashemane road and the road to Awassa through Bedessa and Bilate
Tena.
Sector III (Southeast Sector) is bounded to the north by the
Soddo - Awassa road which it includes and to the south by the IHA
Soddo - Arba Minch road.
Sector IV (Southern Sector) is bounded to the east by the Soddo -
Arba Minch road which it includes and the west by the Soddo -
Gesupa - Gogora river road (proposed IHA road to Baco).
Sector V (Southwestern Sector) is bounded by the Soddo - Gesupa -
Gogora river road which it includes and the proposed new alignment
of the Soddo Bele - Omo river road.
Sector VI (Northwestern Sector) is bounded to the south by the
new Bele road which it includes and to the east by the Hossana road.
7.        Table 2 indicates the phasing of road construction by sector and year.
May 21, 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Rural Road Construction
(Eth$ '000)
Unit      Unit    Year 1          Year 2          Year 3         Year 4          Year 5
Cost   No.     $      No.      $      No.     $       No.     $      No.      $          Total
CAPITAL COST*
Minor Roads (366 km)n/ Km                 4,200   99   415,800   85   357,000   79   331,800   58   243,600   45   189,000   1,537,200
Tracks (235 km) 1/               Ki       1,200   65    78,000   57    68,400   28    33,600   37    44,400   48    57,600         282,000
Heavy Machinery
Grader (125 H.P.)              No.     80,000    2   160,000             -               -               -              -        160,000
Dump-truck (5 m3)              No.     60,000    3   180,000             -               -               -              -        180,000
Angle Dozer (180 H.P.)         No.    158,000    1   158,000             -               -               -               -        158,000
Roller (static-2 tons)         No.     17,600    2    35,200             -               -               -              -          35,200
Compressor                     No.      5,000    1      5,000            -               -               -              -           5,000
Total Capital Cost of Program                         1,032,000         425,400        365,400         288,000         246,600   2,357,400
Total Capital Cost of Project
(100% of Program Cost) 1/                          1,032,000         425,400         365,400         288,ooo         246,600   2,357,400
Total Capital Cost of Project
in Economic Analysis **                               877,700         357,300        306,900         241,900         207,100   1,990,900
1/ Including one Road Engineer and 22 road personnel; operating costs of machinery; material1 excluding
depreciation and interest on machinery.
*   Maintenance of roads and tracks estimated @ 10% of the construction costs will be the responsibility of the local administration.
**  Adjusted for taxes as follows:  Buildings 18%, Roads 16%, Water Supply 20%, Machinery, Equipment, Tools and Furniture 14%,                         x
Vehicles 407 and Fuel, Lubricants and Spare Parts 50%/.                                                                                           '
May 20. 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phaning of Enrol Road Construction
YEAR                                                                 EAR 2                                                        YEAR 3                                                  YEAR 4                                                YEAR 5
Minor                                                            minor                                                          Mino                                                    Minor                                                     Oer
Alig-nt                             Sector   Rood   Track   Alignment                                Sector   Rood   Trotk   Alignment                              Sector   Rood   Trtok   Alig-mat                        Sector   Rood   Trork   Alignment                      Sector   Road   Track
Inn     Inkk                                                              k                                                    kin      ke                                             km       km                                             km      km
Seddo - Ce..pe                        5        25               B Sod.a.o  Jc-t. - Koyo -              2        37        -     I.H.A  - Bedessa - Anka -             3        45        _     Areka - Dubo - Weybe -   6               23              Y yekima - Harano -          5         25    -
Ilko - ltrK-h-h  - HIlen                                        Elat                                                           Anrhnho - Gmmc                                           Undo
Gesupo joct. - Tekoyo -               5        13        -     Admancho -  o           -r Warbera -    1        22        -      IHA. -    t                          2         4        -      Dokb  - Atfoc  - Gaba        6          15       -      Bekloae no - DNkapy           5         -    8
Yekimo                                                          Boditi
Bekle   Senyo - Gale Senos            5          8       _      I.H.A. - Wandore                       1          5              Chreno - Sore                        2        15        -      FPlo - Adilo                 6           5       -      Gale - Hamn-   -  Ykia   5              -   20
Wochigo - Huook                       4          -      13      Worbero - Sh-t                         1          6       -      IHA. - Cheroke                       2          3       -      Sorte  - N     Co GbrEi      6          10       -      Oceitc lgara                  5          - I
Hutbn - Tabala                        4          -       6      1l1l A. - Ltao                         1         15       -      Rerrkecho - Bit.non  Ba..s           2         12       -         amine- Gnon..             6           5       -      BSlR  Sattl- nt - amn        6          -    5
T.bala - GSI.ha                       4        10        -      Wandor  - W-rbero                      1          -       9      Bittna  -ame - Fngo - Bl5t1          2          -      12     ZDaine - Afama                6           -      10      Bela - GEr-kidaaa             5        10    -
Shoya - Gulugla                       3          -      10      Denger - Dolo                          I          -       5      DS       - Boditi                    2          _       6      A-hnochu     - Lakho         6           _       8      G-eapa - DNa b                5        EO
I.H.A   - Culgnla-Chefisa-            3        33        -      Wondea - C-rom                         1          -      10      Bed-es  - Kerherhe                   2          -      10      An-hohu - Gnunn              6           _       6
Gitr_r-BEde.sa jne_tiot
Gulyula I.n.t. - BSdo Senyn           3        1S        -      Sh-r-Cacheno                           1          -      10                                                                     G.nenu-. Kato                6                   6
BSda Scoyp  - Shyoy                   3          -      16       rra - Adnncho                         I                 15                                                                     Adila - Afama                6           -       7
Nokatl - Gulgula                      3          -      15      Lac  - Shento                          S          -       S
Beden.a - Girara                      3         -        5
Total                                        99      65         Totol                                         85       57        Total                                        79      28       TenoN                                  58      37         Ttanl                               45   48
April 16. 1974
Li 



ANNEX 4
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Water Supply
1.        The Project would provide for construction of rural water facilities
for:
(a) The Abela and Bele settlements established under the first
project (1,750 settlers) and;
(b) About 60,000 smallholder families in the highlands.
2.        Settlements.  Water facilities for the two settlements originally
scheduled for construction under the first project would be included under
the proposed Project. In the Abela settlement a distribution system of about
20 km of lateral pipes along with storage tanks would be added to an existing
pipeline. For the Bele settlement a 9 km pipeline and 20 km of laterals with
storage tanks would constructed. These expanded facilities would reduce the
distances from farms to water points to about 500 m. Design and planning of
the system is expected to be completed under the first project and would be
submitted for IDA comments before implementation. Costs of construction and
maintenance would be recovered by WADU through water charges collected from
settlers.
3.        Highlands.  In order to supply more adequate sources of water for
both men and animals, improve hygiene and prevent erosion caused by cattle
tracks, expanded water facilities would also be provided in the highland
areas. These would supplement similar facilities constructed by the Ministry
of National Community Development, and would draw on experience gained with
demonstration installations completed as part of the first project. The
following types of facilities would be provided:
(a) Spring protection designed to help guard about 87 spring sources
from erosion and pollution provided in conjunction with separate
watering points for human consumption and animals located below
the springs;
(b) Installation of 47 hydrams (hydraulic rams) for lifting river
or spring water onto the ridges;
(c) Construction of 200 communal wells; and
(d) Introduction of roof-catchment of rainwater by use of guttering
and small storage tanks on about 200 individual tin-roofed
houses.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        WADU's Extension, Training and Land Planning Division would select
water sites in consultation with local communities. WADU's water development
staff - one Diploma level technician and two artisans (one plumber, one mason) -
would be responsible for planning and supervision of construction. Local
communities would contribute all unskilled labor and locally available material
free of charge and would contribute at least 25% of cash costs. The District
administration is expected to also contribute 25% of cash costs from revenues
of the district development tax. WADU would contribute 50% of the cash costs
(Eth$140,000) and the services of its general staff directly to the local
communities. Roof-catchments would, however, be paid for through seasonal
credit extended to the home owner.
5.        In year 1, seven of each type of water improvement methods would be
constructed as demonstrations. From year 2 onwards, about 20 facilities for
spring protection, 10 hydrams (3 small and 7 large), and 50 communal wells
would be constructed annually.
6.        The cash cost of construction of a small hydram would be about
Eth$2,750, and that of large ones Eth$5,000. Spring site protection would
cost about Eth$1,000, and well construction about Eth$250. Total cash
costs of rural water facilities for the highlands - inclusive of capital
and staff costs - would be about Eth$140,000 of which about Eth$35,000 would
be subscribed by local communities. All these installations would require,
only simple maintenance, which local communities would be able to supply under
WADU supervision.
7.        Each hydram would provide improved water supply facilities for
about 300 families, each spring site protection for about 500 families and
each well for about 5 families. In total about 60,000 rural families would
benefit from the program.
March 12, 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Rural Water Supply
(Eth$'O00)
Unit       Year 1            Year 2             Year 3             Year 4             Year 5
Unit    Cost    No.        $       No.       $        No.       $        No.       $        No.       $    Total
CAPITAL COST
Settlements:
Pipes, valves, etc.                                    467,820                -                  -                                        467,820
Personnel                                                3,000              3,300              3,630              3,995          3,995    17,920
Highlands:
Hydrams, wells, etc.                                    40,750             61,000             61,000             61,000         61,000   284,750
4-wheel drive vehicle                                   15,500                -                  -               12,000             -      27,500
Personnel 1/                                            11,440             12,584             13,842             15,227         15,227    68,320
Miscellaneous                                            8,220              8,220              8,220              8,220           8,220    41,100
Total Capital Cost of Program                            546,730             85,104             86,692            100,442          88,442   907,410
Total Capital Cost of Project
(100% of Program Cost)                                 546,700             85,100            86,700            100,400          88,500   907,400
Total Capital Cost of Project
in Economic Analysis*
1/ One diploma technician, one mason, one plumber.
*   Costs and benefits of rural water supply are excluded in economic analysis.
March 13, 1974






ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Soonary of WADU's Capital and Recurrents Costs
(Eth$ '000)
Year I       Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Year 5        Total       Year 6        Year 7         Year 8          Year 9         Year 10        Year 11-20
CAPITAL COST
Extension a-d Training                      681.8          11.4          25.0         251.7          32.4     1,002.3         139.7         226.7           27.3           29.7            224.0             115.5
Marketiog, Credit & Cooperatives            115.6          -             -             72.0          -           187.6          6.6          24.0           -              -                12.0               3.6
Livestock                                   331.4          17.0           1.6         101.7          13.6       465.3         142.6         101.8           13.5            1.6            101.7              63.3
Works sod Services                          376.6           6.7          13.4          92.3          32.8        521.8          -            12.0           -               -               12.0               3.6
Finance                                      43.1          -             -             12.0          -            55.1           2.8          2.8            2.8             2.8             2.8               2.8
Conroon Services                             122.3         -             -             62.4          -           184.7           9.2          9.2            9.2             9.2             9.2               9.2
Project Direction                           248.3          -              0.5          98.5          -           347.3          19.8         56.7            0.5             0.8            56.7              21.3
Total Capital Cost                       1,919.1          35.1         40.5         690.6          78.8      2,764.1         320.7        433.2            53.3           44.1           418.4             219.3
RECURRENT COST
Exteosios and Training                      642.2         747.3         757.4         864.3         866.7      3,877.9         774.0        771.2           771.2          768.4           767.0             752.4
Marketing, Credit & Cooperatives             204.0        208.3         161.9         102.9         102.9        780.0         102.4          77.0           60.9           10.7            10.7               10.7
Liventock                                   279.9         295.8         322.9         299.2         302.1      1,499.9         265.4         278.0          270.7          269.7           270.2             269.2
Works and Servic.e                          674.6         719.1         738.9         738.0         732.1      3,602.7         361.4         348.3          316.2          303.2           303.2             303.2
Finance                                       53.1         57.3          61.9          66.9          66.9        306.1          15.3          15.3           15.3           15.3            15.3               15.3
Con=on Services                              193.5        190.8         199.3         208.8         208.9      1,001.3          50.1          50.1           50.1           50.1            50.1               50.1
Project Direction                           359.0         377.1         397.1         370.9         371.0      1,875.1         198.6         198.6          198.6          198.6           198.6              198.6
Total Recurrent Cost                    2,406.3       2,595.7      2,639.4       2,651.0       2,650.6    12,943.0        1,767.2       1,738.5        1,683.0        1,616.0         1,615.1            1,599.5
Total Copital and Recorrent Costn    4,325.4          2,630.8       2,679.9      3,341.6       2,729.4    15,707.1        2,087.9       2,171.7        1,736.3         1,660.1         2,033.5           1,818.8
April 12, 1974






*  *   1,0102   i20iO2i'.0l0.102    10010'  H  H  H                                                          H
0     00.20  0000H02Z0 H.'.    0202-  02 000020020.  H00202H22  pp.00  H  2.0    00  00212000o  02 0020000  .2
0     00-0  02.0.0000  0000                 0  0022'000  0022000   2200   0  20    0'  00.00022  0  00000.  0
0     020.0  02000000'00.0         020202  00  0o,0 0.0.0  00,000    0000   0  002000.0  0.0.0000.  0' 00020'  H
0     -* 00  22000'- 000   0.0'     000  .02  020'H.'0                  0'H2   00000.  000.002-.  2 0000
000  02000.000000            000   000000002    0"0    000    00,'.00.0    0200 000   00000'.,.
20    0200      000.0.00000.        0.022' 00    0".  .0  0.00000   002.002  2  000000    020  00  0  0   00, 0
20    000  0000000000'0            00.02  00  0  020200,0-0.10   020200                  02 0002020   0  000  0  2.0
200.00.00.00000000           000   00  000000   00.0    -            0  0   000000  0  0200.'  0  000   0  H
0  00         000         --CO  0-  0.0  000   oo.0.'-..'.,0  0.0.1200' -   02000    0202020   0' 0002
0.0.0  .0000000000,-2                     0  00    0 020'".000".0'        ..'.20020.0    000,0102    000   0
02    00    00000.000000            0020oo0'0   0  0  0.002000.02   0  02 022200  0  00  00.0. 02 00    0
.0    0000  0o'0.-000   000         000    02 00  000   00000    0  0  00000.   00"., 0   0  0 102 0
0.       0' 0000000   0.    000    0 OH  0.0000'  00    00  0  0' 00000120  oOOooO    0                        .0.
000  oo20002-'020,00         00000200000000                         02  -  0   00'.  0  200,0   0. 0.       0
      000000,.,               o  0.,  00    00  -'-'0   0        0. ,o  00    000.00          -      0
00000000000                0-'0    0  0   --        0         0   0  0  0.   00    00  20           0     0
000  000   0200.0.0'-                0  00  00    ,oO       02 0'  0. 02        002   00.0           0      0
0  0  00.00.00000002         000    0  0000                 .0          0  -   00    0000             0     0
000               0.020     000    0. 00.          -       0  0   0       0   0.           0        0      0
02020  oo'0   00002,-.0      000    0-             0       0  0'  .0           00    02.'.,o0        0     0
0  00000202 0'020o'    .oHOO    0   02 020    0          0  0   0       0      0   00002          0
02  002  0020  Oo  o       000    0   .0  '0   '.0         0  0   0'      0     02   0.000'               0
HO 000   000'200  02".       00000020                       0  0'  '0      0      -   0000          120   02
0020  0   -000200,0          020000.0                       0        0     0           0 20".0       '0
000    02   000   00.1                    0  "''0           0        0     0      02   0  0""               0
          0. '200    0      0'""    0   0   0                       0            .0.    0200
00    0000        0-      0   0   0                      0      0          I0.00"20              0
0002000.0   00.000             0     0.   0   '-'                          0           .0.  '.0
0"    0   00. 0000.0'        209          0                                -            00
0020  00  00    020.Oo       00                                            22
0020  00  0.   000.0.0       0                                             '.-          0
000        00.  00  0'       0.0
0-0        0   '0   0        0                                                                                          02
oH0       0      0          HO          002020200202020202   0202           02002  0  02020202        00.0'            0
0.0                          00          00000    00000    00                000   00 0000             000              0
00 0                                          20.02020202020   '020          02020      020202          0200.
020                                      2000    200.022002   2002        0.2002020  02020202         000             00
Ho                                        2000    0220020'0   00          20000  0  0000              000             00'
0                                        000    000200    00            00002  0  0000              000             00
020-0220>0202022002            0202002  .002020'-         20 02 02        02
0                          202002  20     '0
20    20  0          0.   0220    0           0  02         20       -
022020202002202020020'   0202     H0'202020  0200020        02 02020220            22        o
0                           00.0.   0.0220000020.202000.20            02020',-0.20  02200202     0  0000                -        20
000    0  000200    02002002    00        20 20000  0  0000          0  0000
0002   02 020000    00000    020    20 0000  0  0000                 0  0000              00         0
02         0
0'       0         0                                                                                                             0
0        0         0.       0.20.0202020                                                                               0         0
0                  02               -     2                                                                             22       0
0        0         0    00220  20.02.0222222222    2222222222    22222
*         0         0       000.   0  02 02                                                                            20        0
0         0       000    o  0  0                                                                            0          0  0  20
.0        0                                                                                                                      o    0    H
0                  0                                                                                                                    0
02         0     0
0'      0                                                                                                  0          0    0    0
0         02                                                                                                'o
0                 00202   02   .02   02                                                                       0               20
0        02   0    0
0        0         0    00202  0220220222222222    .222,22222                                    2 2222                             o o
0        0         0        002.2  20   02   02
2
0,       H         0                                                                                                  0
0                           0-0   0'    '0                                                                                            0  0
0        0                  000'   0  .0                      200
0        0         0        0. 0. 0'  H  0.    02             20 0
0        0.        0       .  .           .                   .  "                                                                     02  0
0                  0        0022.2   20."220 2222222          Ho       2  222222222              22222                                 02
0        0         0       0002   02    20                    00
0        0         0        0002   20 02 0                    00
0                H
000 0 0.22.2222222   2222,22222   22222
-20.0   0    H    02         0.   200.    0           20   0'        20     .0
.0202020  0  20000    0, 2002020            >          0
0.0202   02 0.020200200.20200    0202     0202200'0'200020220       0  0000               0          0.
000.   02 oO0'00    02000202    00        20 02000  0  0000          0   000              0          0
0 020
000    0  00000    00000    00            0  0000  0  0000                   0            0'
20      20-022020                                                                     0
2000   02 .0                 0.
0.020   0  .2.020      20202000'
0.00    0' 00202 2   020.20200    2 2      2222222222                22222
000    0' 002.0        00202002
000    02 00.0         00000
02020   20  2.2  20               200
02002  02 02022222222  0.0   222,,22222    22222
0020   .0 0  .0                   Co
0020    0  0  0                   00
200202200220 222222222    2222222222   22222
0020   02 0  0
020.0.  0.   02   02
020220200202222222222   2222222222   22222
000    0  0  0
0202  20                        020                                                       0
02.002200                         2002
0'0.0.  0. 0222,22222   0.0   2222222222    22222
000    0  0                       00
0200    0  02                     00
2000   0. 02 02           020202   2020    .0           02                               0002
020202   0  02002002    020.200202200'    0.02202020  2 0202002      22222
000'   0  000.0202    00200220200.002020202              02200220
o2oa                        0020   20 0020002    0020020    00         20 02000       00020                             02
0 0f0I



A21O*EX 5
Table 2
Page 2
0000  ooOo 00000a  0 0  000000000 0 0 - 0
o        oo4o    -00 0000000 000000   a' 0  0
0000    oCooC-to 0   0  000000 00
-    000000 000a000-400
00      00 0  0 000400-00                    0 0 0
0                    0  -t
00-00  0000 0000o0  0  000000000 0 0  0
0000  00000  0o40<00 000000g0 0 0  0
* -000  000000-0-0-4 ooO   000000 - 0 0 0  0
-    -0-0000 0000o400-t -4
-  0000000000                    0 0  0
0                  0 4 0
00      -t 0o0o00000000        0   000000
0000  0000000000 0 0  000000000 0 0
-0-40  0oo00o000 0 0 0  0000000 0 0 0  0
0000  00000004-4 0 0 0  0000000 0 0 0  0
.a.400 00000 004000000000'a-
0        00 -  0000000000                     0 0 0
0          0                  0 4 0
00       4000  o00000000       0   000000
00             0000000         -   0       0
0000  0000 00000o00   000000000 0 0  0
00-40  000000000000000000 go 0 0
0000  000000004 0 0 0  0000000 0 0 0  0
00 -  00000000    0                 0 0 0
0                  0 0  0
00       000000000,00          0   000000
0             0000000         0   0       -0
0000  0000000000 0 0  000000000 0 0  0
0000  00000000000   000000040 0 0  0
0000  00000000-0 0 0 0  000000000 0 0  0
0        A00-00000--t0                       000
0          0                  0   4    0
00       0000000000000         0   000000
0      0              0000000        0   0       0
00000000 00000oCO   000000000 0 0  0
-000   0000 0000o 400   0000000-40 0 0  0
0              0000  000 00o00  0 0 0  000000000 0 0  0
0      0
0   0          0-4000000000-40000 00000000
00 0  0004000000                    0 0  0
-0    0               0          0                  0    -4  0
0 0000  000000000 0 0 0  000000000 0 0  0
0    0 0-400  000000000 -4 0 0  000000000 0 0  0
0    0000000000000000-40000000000  0  0
0    0 0000  00.0400000000000000  00 0 0  0
0    0 00-0  00 0 04 0 0 0 0 0 0    00   -40 0 0  0
0 00    00          0 0                0 0  0
a a              0000  0000000000 0 0  000000000 0 0  0
0040  0000000000 0 0  000000040 0 0  0
0000  0000000-4-4 0 0 0  000000000 -4 0  0
o        0000  oOOOO OotOOOo   000000  0  0
0 0 0  00040000-40                  0 0  0
0              0           0                  0   4    4
o            000      00-000000000-         0000000
0000  000000000 0 0  000000000 0 0  0
0000  0000 000-0  0 0  0000000-00 0 0  0
0000  00000000-4  0  000000000 0 0  0
0   -     0         00000000  0 0 0 0 OOo   00o   04000
-0 0 0              00 0  000000000                      0 0  0
0    --  0              0          o                  0    4  0
0  a-    0  0
0   o               000   000  oooo 0   0  ooooooooo o 0  0
0   -              000   000  0000 0 0 0  OOOOOOOoO 0 0  0
O 0 0               400   000  0000 0 0 0  000000000 0 0  0
0   a-      0
0 0       0         000   000  0040 0 00   0-400-40  0  0
0 0              40    000  00-00                     0 0  0
0              0          4                   -tO   0          0
a     00     0 000   0000000        0   000000
0      0              000   0  0     0    0       -4
o oo    oo   OoOo 0 0 0  000000000 0 0  0               a
0 0 0 000000000 0 0
0            0 00    00   0000 -4 0 0  000000000 0 0  0              -4
0      0
0     0      0 0 0    0 0   0000400   00000  0 0  0                  a
0 0<    00   00 0 0 0                  0 0  0           0
0              0          -4                 -4    0  0        0
0     00     0 -40    00   0000      0   000000                      a
4      0              00    0  0     0    0       0                  0
0 00    0    0000 0 0 0  000000000 0 0  0               a
0             0400 0 0 0  0000000-40 0 0  0
0 00    0    00000                     0 0  0
0                       0   0  00000                    0
01  0     a  0  a-    a-  0-
00    0  0 * 00  0   000000  a-000
-0000   a-a-    0    0   0 a a 000000 0 0  00
a- a-aolo    00    0    a-  aoa-oo -o 000 0 0 00 0-a
0 04- -    0    -0000 0 0000000 a-ooo
 00000000  00    t-00a 0 0 0 0000 ooOOOo a-oh
0 a-040   4    000 0 0 0 0<0a-0000 00000               kI



ETHIOP7A
SECOHD W0LAFi0 AGRICULTU9AL OCOCCOPOCSC PROJECT
Program and Pro-Tot Capital and R-current Cools
0ADU:  Extension and lt-i-ng D0vison- SettlemenL Section
(EtS)
Unst       earl           T Yt 2        Tear 3          Yeasr           Yar 5                        oar 6        Y-ar 7        Ye-r            Y- ar9t    r 9            YTe:s  11-20
ltir           Cost    No.       $      No.      $    No.       $     No.      S      No.      $       Total    No.      S      Ne.    5       SN.      $     No.      $      No.   0          $
CAPITAL COOT
Hnildisgl/
D-monstrator resident.
Ajaja (Abelo) - 50' at $40/.2                      No.           1,000    2    2,000               -               -                                       2,010
Rabela (Abela) - 5042 ot $40 m2                                  1,000    2    2,OOO               -               -             -                -        2,000           -               -              -             -              -          -
GBas   (Belo) - 5Qm2 at $40/m                      '~            1,000    2    2,000               -               -             -                -        2,000
H.Q. Office2/                                                      -              -                -               .             -                -         -              -               -              -             -              -          -
Htotr        - -f hO2                                            1,000    2    2,000               -               -             -                -        2,000
Sob-Total - Building                                                             8,000              -               -             -                -        8,000           -               -              _             -               
Plant, Mahitnety and Equip-ent -
Vehitle          - 4-wheel dnive-/                               15,500    3   46,500                -              -           12,000             -       58,500            -           12,000            -             -           12,000      3,600
Other eqoipment - Radio      -ioti/                                               -                                              -                      -                     -              -          ------
Tools end isplerents                                                             4,700            1,500           1,500          1,500           1,500    10,700              800           600            600           300            200        200
Sub-Total - Plant, MPlhinery & Equippent                                        51,200            1,500           1,500         13,500           1,500    69,200              800        12,600            600           300         12,200      3.800
Total Capital CosL of Progrom                                                    59,200            1,500           l.Ci.         03,500           1,500    77,200              800        12,600            600           300         12,200      3,800
Total Capitol Cost of Projeot (1000, of
Program Cost)                                                                    59,200            1,500           1,500         13,500           1,500    77,200              g00        12,600            600           300         12,200      3,800
Tota1 Capitol Cost of Projeot io Eoonnmic
Analyisi
RECUkFHINT COST
Personnel: A/
High-level                                       Man-Ye-a        Y,600    1       ,6000    1    10,060   1    11,616   1    12,70   1    12,78    50,3302
Middle-l-sel                                                     5,4G0    4   21,600    4    23,760   3    19,602   3    20,561   2     14,374   100,897
Other catgoty -
Demonstr-tor                                                    1,000   42   03,000   42    60,300  02    30,930  22    43,034   7    13,970   230,143   7    13,000   5    9,981   0    9,985   3    5,091   2    3,004                       3,004
CloOrial sttff                                                  7,800    2    3,600    2        3,960   2       4,356   2      4,792   2       4,792    21,000                        -           -                     -             -           -
1,440    3    4,320    3        4,752   3      5,226    2      3,032    1     1,016    20,046   1        1,916   1    1,916   1    1,916   1    1,016   0    1,010             1,010
GBard                                                             480    2        960    2      1,006   2       1,162   2      1,                 7       5734             -              -              -             -              -          -
C6a..l  aTbor                                                     4H0    7    3.360    7        3.696   7       4.067   0      3,195    2      1.278    15,596                            -              -              -             -           -
Sob-Total - Personnol                                                        106,440          117,084          85,959         91,370          50.395   451,248           15,895        22,001         11,901         7,907          5,910      5,910
Seed, Fertiliter and Chenicols                                                 1,300            1,300           1,300          1,300           1,300      6,500             250            250           250            250           250         250
Books aod Periodicals ood Station-ry                                            1,100            1,100          1,100          1,100           1,100      5,500             250            250           250            250           750         250
Clothing allowane                              No.                 60    5        300    5        300   5         300   4         24D   3        I80      1,320   1          60   1          0   1                60   10               60         60
Miellrous                                                                       100             1,000           1,000           1,000          0,000      5,030             200            200           2,0            200           200         200
S,lbs.itenco Allowance   d AiCr Fate                                            1,000           1,000           1,000          1,000           1,000      5,000             200            200           200            200            200        200
Medical                                                             20   54    1,080   54        I,OdO  33        660  32         640  15        300      3,760   8         160   6        120   6       120   4         80   3         60         60
Consulta-t Fee                                                                  2,500           2,500           2,500          2,500           2,500    12,500              400            400           400            400           400         400
Miiscellaoeoss                                                                  1.000            1.000          1.000           1.000          1,000      5.000             200            200           200            200            200        200
Tocol Reosrrent Coot of Program                                                 115,720          126,364         94,819         100,150         58,775   45,828           17,615         13,581        13,581          9,547          7,530      7,530
Total   _ucoe t Cost of Projsot (70/. of
Program Cost)                                                                    81,000           88,500         66,400          70,100         41,100   347,100           12,300          9,500          9,500         6,700          5,300      5,300
Total Recurrent Cost of Proje-t in
Economii Analysis
l/Mitenan.e.  ostis shownh onder Works and SHovices, Infrastruntore.
2/Roaidoal valoe of 4-whoel drive vehicle estinoted 0 Eth$3,500.  Vohirle oporattog costs ts shtwq nder locks and Services, Workohop & Carpool.
3/1c_lodod  _udor Agriosletrl ECsto..io-  (Highland_.
4/Metit itncroas  at 10% p.o. is jolodod in unit cost fo- ypo-s 2 to 4, constant tkeroofter.
* RePresents tlh -average Innoal emp-nditsre over the 10 years.,
Apri I 1?, 1 -4



El Hi SC, !A
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Program and P-o1nuL Ceptrl1 and Recurrent Costs
WAOU: Ylrenstin and Training Diniti u- Land Planning Sertion
(EthS)
UhRt     Year I        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4       Y.ar 5                      Year 6        Year 7        Ytoo  8        Year 9         Year 10        Years 11-20
Unit       Cast    No.    $    Na. .            No.    $    N'.        $    No.      $        lanai     No.    $      No.    5    Yr.        S     No.    $    No..                     $
CAPITAL COST
Laed (FPr Nursery)                                No.        4,000    7  28,000                           -             -             -         28,0000 
Buildings l/
Office & Dtraing Room                            =2           200  47.7  9,540            -              -                           -          9,540
stoe  (Nursery shed, 2mK 4a  reels)               No.           80   14   1,120            -              -             -             -          1.120
Sub-Tot-a   - BNildings                                                   10,660           -              -             -             -         10,660
Pleat, Muhitnery and Equip=ent:
tab & Screntifiu Equipment                                               12,605          -             3,200          -              -         15,805         3,161         3,161         3,161          3,161         3,161               3,161
Vehicle, 4-iher0 drine                           No.       15,500    3  46,500           -               -      3  36,000            -         A2o500           -      1  12,000            -              -       1  12,000               3,600
Other Equipment:
Ca=ping Eqoip-ent                                                        5,000          -             5,000                                   10,000         5,000          -             ,000                         -                  2,0
Tools & LIpl..e=ts                                                         500                          300          -              300        1,100           500          -               300           -              300                 220
Sub-Total                                                                 64,605           -            8,500       36.000            300      109.405         8,661        15,161         0.461          3,161        15,461               8.981
Total Capital Cont of Program                                           003,265                        8,500        36,000           300      148,065          8,661       15,161          8,461         3,161         15,461               8,981
Total Capital Cont of ProJet (100% of
Program Coat)                                                           103,300                        8,500        36,000           300      148,100          8,700       15,200          8,500         3,200         15,500               9,000
Total Capital Cast3pf ProJe-t io
Etonosir Aaalysis-                                                       80,300           -            7,300        21,600           300      109,500          7,500       10,000          7,300         2,800         10,200               6,800
RECURRENT COST
2/
Personnel
High Level                                  Mln-Yraus       9,600    2  19,200   2   21,120   2   23,232   2  25,556   2   25,556                              -             -             -              -
Mediam Ltene                                                5,400    3  16,200   3   17,820   3   19,602   3  21,562   3   21,562                        3   21,562   3  21,562    3  21,562   3   21,562    3  21,562                     7,187
Other Category:
Dneenstrator                                                1,500   17  25,500  17   28,060  17   30,855  17  33,941  17   33,941             152,287  17   33,941  17  33,941   17  33,941  17   33,941   17  33,941                     33,941
Driner                                                      1,440    3   4,320   3    4,752   3    5,226   3   5,748   3    5,748              25,794   1    1,916   1   1,916        1   1,916   1    1,916    1   1,916                   1,916
Gu-rd                                                         480   14   6,720  14    7,392  14    8,134  14   8,946  14    8,946              40,138   7    4,473   7   4,473        7   4,473   7    4,473    7   4,473                  4,473
Nursery corker                                                480   28  13,440  28   14.7&4  28   16,268  28  17,892  28   17,892              80.276  14    8,946  14   8.946   14   8.946  14    1.946   14   8.946                       8.946
Stb-Total - Personnel                                                      85,380        93,928        103,317      113,645       113,645       509,915        70,838        70,838        70,838         70,838        70,838               56,463
Clothing All-oanre                                 No.           60   45   2,700  45    2,700  45    2,700  45   2,700  45    2,700              13,500  22    1,320  22   1,320   22   1,320  22    1,320   22   1,320                       1,320
Boaks and Periodi-als                                                       1,500          1,500         1,500         1,500         1,500        7,500          1,500        1,500          1,500         1,500          1,500               1,500
Pertilie-re and Seede                                                         550            550           550           550           550        2,750            250          250            250           250            250                 250
Snbsritenre Allowatue sad Air Fares                                        12,000         12,000        12,000       12,000         12,000       60,000          8,000        8,000          8,000         8,000          8,000               8,000
PledOral                                                         20   67   1,340  67    1,340  67    1,340  67   1,340  67    1,340               6,700  42        840  42      840   42       040  42       840   42       840                 840
Consultants Fen                                                             2.500          2.500         2.500        2,500          2,500       12,500          2.500        2.500          2.500         2.500          2.500               2,500
Total Retorrent aCnt of Program                                           105,970        114,518       123,907      134,235        134,235      612,865         85,248       85,248         85,248        85,248         85,248              70,873
Total aRecrrent Cast of ProJert (100/. of
Program Cost)                                                             106,000       114,500        123,900      134,200        134,200      612,800         85,200       85,200        85,200         85,200        85,200               70,800
Toeta  Rrorrent CaPt  Of Projert in
Ecoeomir Analysis-                                                        106,000       114,500        123,900      134,200        134,200      612,800         85,200       85,200         85,200        85,200         85,200              70,800
ClsleaLtsnamtn rust in shoun udnte Wonks *nd Sermites, Infrast-ucture.
2/M-erittireasese  10% p.o. in i-nludad in  nti          t tfor yers 2 to 4, ronstaut therefter.,
3/ Foi reonomic soelysis 60% asstgred to Coasernation Projrt Aualyst is and 407, to Crop ProJut Analysis.
*  tepresents the a-rage .a.ual expenditur-  amer the 10 yea.
uu Adjusted for tampa on follows: Buildihn,s 18%, Roeds 16%, Water Supply 20%, nalthi-sry, Equipment,
Tools and FurnSitor 14%, Vehitles 40% and Foal, Luhbrainet and Spare Parts 50%.
April IP, 19714



ftogrg  cod Prt.-t Capita1 tad Bacrrot Cgot.
W001:  Eataata  and Tratatta D"lolto   -8    Et""no.l   S ...ion-
U n It    Y  -a   I      T o o   2       Y  . .o   3  Y   -o  4         . .C   I                   O  . . . 6     Y   -  o   2.         . ar   8      -a  I         Y e en   10        s.'   1 1 - 2 0 a
Unit       Coc      No             No.                           N.o 0 t.                                                     N 0    o.  6.on 5 o.     0     t.       N         .      0
B.tildia.Sl/
Aij.j  - (25.' ( $40/)                            No.      1,000    1   1,000                                                                     I    - 1000                                                                                           too-10
K.b. 1.-( 25.2 (9  $40/)                          No.         200o  31.   6,300              -            --                                      630                 -                .-
aQ,. OffOtra"'                                                                    0                                                                ,0
shad. ton nl.aaooo  1/N.                                     100   72   7.2'00      27   2.700      6    600              -                       0,300----
Store (attohad to H.Q. Offtne)                    .2         200  11.7  2.340               --                                                    2.360-                                                             .-
Sob-Total - ZolldLog.                                                      17,840           2.700           600             --                     21,140               ---                                                                 .200
PI-to. MtchL-"r & Eqit-.t -
V.hicl* - 4-.ha.1 dnin                             RNo.    15,500      2  31,000              .-                   2   24,000            -        55.000                       2    24.000                             -        2       24.000         7.1000
Need 06010.
?raiLtrea2/                                                                2.670              ---                                                  2.670             2.620              -                --                                               534
tonal Off 0 c.
Pnrnttn.rW                                                                 1,162              --                    -                    -         1,162             1,162              ----                                                             232
Tool. ad I.Pl-t. -
CankLag 14t.ntI.                                    No.         30   24   1.200               -      33  1.750              -    35   1,750        4,700              -       31      1.7500                                   35        1.750           875
Other 7ool. (o.k.., hoe., at,.)                    Na.         200    7   1 400               -       72  1.00             -      7   1,400        4.200              -        7      1.400              --                     7        1.400           700
lob-Tat.1 - Plitat  Rnrhtaory tad                                                                         310            2400           310        6.3                 .3
Eq. ipeta                                                     37.432             -            A0            2.0            .5          77256227.150                                         --27.150                                       9.541
Total Capital Coat of progra                                                35,272           2,700        3.750          24.000         3.150      88.872             3.832           17,150              --27,150                                      9. 41
Tot.l CPintlI Co.t of Project (1000 of                                                       2702,0                                      ,0          89                 A              7202,0                                                             ,0
Prog    Coon)                                                              55,300            270          3.800          2400            .10        890                 801.00-                                                           720910
Total Capital Coa  of Pro200nt to
Itoatalo      t Aoalyeta on                                           38,800            2,207        3,400          14,400         2,700       61.500            3.3D0           17,200              -1,0                                            ,0
Pert.oaold: 2]
008h LanaI                                    M,,Y.a         9600    2  19.200         2  21.120      2 23,232      2   25,556   2  2.510E,    114,664       1      12.778      1   12,778       1   12.778  1   12,778         1        12.778        12.778
Middle 1.a~~~~~~~~~a1                        5.~~1400   3  16.200       3  17.820      3 19,602    3   21,561   3  21,061         96. 74      3      21,560      3   21.541       3   21,561  3   21.361         3        21,561        21,541
O-tha  Cnaor.:                                "1,500   24  36.000    33  53,100   35 61.410   35   67,551  35  67.551   285.612   35                                67,551    35   67.531       35   67,551 35   67,551        35        67.511        67.311
Drivar                                                       1.440     2   2.880       2   3.168    2  3.404        2    3.832   2   3.832        17.196     2       3.832      2    3.832       2    3.832  2    3.832          2        3.832         3.832
Sob-Tot.l - Ptra-Io                                                         74,260          95,200      107,728         110,500       110,500   514.216             105.722         105.722           105.722       105,722              105,722       105.722
sa4 and Pertilltnr,6/                              No.           50    7       350      7      350    7    350    7          350   7       350      1,750    7           350     7       310      7        350  7        350      7           350           550
Clothl.g Allo.uo.a..                                             60    2       120      2      120    2    120       2       120  2        120        600      2         120     2       120       2       120 2         120      2           12010
miana11tn.on.                                                                  700             700           700             7010          700      3,500                700             700               70            700                  700           700
S.baiatnoone All-oc  tad Alt Naras    .100                                                    ,00           ,00,00                        ,00       5.0                1,000           1,000             1,000         1,000                1.000         1.000
NIadjoal                               86~~~~~~~~~~N.  20   31    620    40        000   42     840   42        840  42       00       3.940   41           820   41         020    41        820 41        820    41            820           820
Total R.  orrot Coat of PraIrt,                                             77,070          08.170       110.738         121,510      121,510   529,006              106,712         100.712          100,712        100.712             108.712       106.712
TataI Renorrot Coat of Projant (100X
of Progr*   Coat)                                                           77.100          90,200       110,700         121.500      121,300   529.000              108.700         108.700           108.700       100,700             106.700        106.700
Tota1 Reanott Coat of ProJect io
B.-aL. Analyai   n                                                          77.100          90,200       110,700         121,500       121,500   529,000             108.700         108,700          108.700       100,700              108.700       106.700
.j/fEItaaaoo   net i. ahov  nadr Wark. & Sarvtca., Ial... trrtoro.
2/Th.a Projet eill cotriboto Ith$l001ah.d tovrda praialon of
_trials (co"-ngt&d Iraa ahaet. "ila, etc.) for otaar..a""   le ""It ....a.
A/Coet of 14 ahamo, 7 .ktlnS wAn 7 Nabl...
A/Macit incroat  at 107. P.&. Ia taclodad to  .nit coa t for yatra  2 to 4, -o-at.at ther.aftar.
itbOsoth of ated and ftrtilieerlVoreda/yeer2  rhemare a   7 W.dorda.
*   Rarasoot  the  -esrag   am.l espandintra ovr thn. 10 years.
Ad jo:atdfor t ae  -  folIo1.   NoBIldiag 10?, Roeda 16?, Vater Sopply 207., llchlaary. Eqitpoaat, Too1a
andPritora 147., Vehicles 40? tad Poel, L.bninante ae  Sptr  Pertu  507..
Jannar 23, 1974



StEONo OLMO,88  AGRICULTUt.61  DEVELOPNtNT PROJECT
000:   s-t- t  sod -Foa.ing1 Diisd R -   Ctinn  S- to
Unit       nest1           ea-   2        On-c3            Te-t4             YeatS-6                                        ..   nti coO   YearS            Y     9tr        Oscl            Onotsii-20
CAPITAL COST
toildi,n5s I/
Oo-.it-t   (i4920 79  120/.2091                   No.    167,880       1 1,8                                                                              17 .880                             -----
Litor0      (5On  9 $5201,n2)                     N.t.     0,000G      1    6,000--                                                                        6,0---
Clinic       2442 0  120/m2,)3/                   to.      2,88       1I      ,8                                                                           2,880                              --
Clss  4ot   S2,  8  120/a2)Z                      No.:    10,080.      1   00:,:,08          -                                  -i,OB--
Onde...Ik                                                                    1.896           ---1.896                                                                        ---
Sob-T-tI - Bilidi,tgs                                                       38,736            -                                  -38,736---
Plan, ltsthi-ny  -td tqEl.Pe t-I
tab. & Nonoi-Lin Eqoipo-n                                                    1,000         I000            1,000             0,000           1,000         5,000           1,000           1,000           1,000            1,000            1,000             1,000
ins                                              to.    33,0          1    000              -               -                  -              -          33,000      1   33,000              -                -                 -               -              6,600
4-autea  dtlnc                                   N..     05,500       1   05,'5'00          -               -        I    12.000              -          27.5000                    1   12,000                -                -       1   012,000            3,600
Pant Tqsoptsett                                          0,000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  300     500               50               00         3,000U             500            500             500              500               500              300
Do-itcy and Clsns...,  07                                                   1,635           200                      200      000             100         3,435           3,435                       -                                                          6    87
Offlot F.nir  6/03                                                                          -               --                                -             738              038                                                                                 o
Tools nod Inpiene...                                                        1.000           200             200              000              000         1.800           1,000            100               200             200               200              360
Fob-T-tl - II-o,  -ahinep  6  qnip-st                                       54.873          1,900           1 000           13,0010           1.300        24 473          39,603         03.700            1.700            1.7000          13.700            12.893-
Tottl Ospltol Cos  olPngs                                                    93,609         0,g00           1,300            13,900           1,900       103,2003         33,6073         13,000           0,000            1,0700           13,700           12,893
Tota  Os0lta.I Cost of  -rj-ot  (0005. n
It..ts-  C-sp                                                               33,600          1,900           1,900            13.900           1,900       113,200          39,0700         13,700           1,700            1,700            13,700           12,900
Tota  Capital Cost of  c-j-ot it
....n,in Atalysin                                                          06,300          0,600           1,600            8,800           1it00         78,900          25,600          8,700            1,300            1,500            8,700             8,400
OOCRRtNT COOT
0>s ......                                Stan lr-no        9,0        2    3002 2,l                      23,032            231,31      2   23 ,33i      1014,604     2 2.5          2   25,-st 76   23,336           2   23,356l       2   23,356,            23,33
Ooddls  Itoti                    '          3,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:400  5   2'7,000     29,0  5      7200   6     3,93        5 3,3              16120                   5 3,3 5 3,95       3     385       3 3,35            5   39533933
h-bo  Catag't: 
T-- loIp                                                  180         1    1.900   0       ,880    1      2,078      1     236        1      ,396        10,7305          2,396    0    2,396       1    2,396       1    0,330        1    2,39              2,39
TypCstlCltci                    n          ~3,600      1    3,600          3,900    1      4,330      0      4,92      1    4,792         22,500      2    4,7921   1    4,0972       1    4,1790     1    4,'792       1    4,792             4,792
Osal1-to O-itits520                                                   1    1,200  1    1,320    2         1,432'    1      0,57       1    1,397          I,6        I   1,8        1    18         1    1,18        1    1,397        I   1,397              1,397
1,    ,,                                    ~~~~~           ~~~~480  5    2,400  5  2,040    5  2,904,    1  3,194     5    3 ,194        14.332     3    3,094   3       3.094      5    3,194      5    3,194        3     3,194             3,194
H-   ...                                   ~ ~~~      ~~~~~480  7  4.00      129    1        381      I       639      1       639         2,860     1       039    1       639      1       633      7       639      1       639               639
G..  nso480                                                           2       960  2    1,036    2        1,12      2      1,278      2    1,208          1,34      2    128        2      .00      2    0, 278      2    1,278       2    0,278              1, 278
onsco                        ..            480      2       960  2    1,036   ~~~~~~~~ ~                 ~~~2 1,62  2  1,2798    2  1,278  1,74I         1,27     2    1,208       2    1,278      2     1,0         2     127128
CG"b                                                                  2 ,0    2,400 2    2,640   2        2,904     2      3,194      2    3 ,194        14 ,3342   2    3,1948   2    3,194        2    3.194       2    3,194       2    3,084              3,184
non                                       1,800~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D  1    1,8000 I  1,980    1  2 ,178  1  2,396      1    2,396        10,730      1    2,396    1    2,396        1    2 ,396      2 2396           1    2 ,396             2,330
Fon -oct  ~it-o                      0                   40      1    1-440  1    1.504  -1          1 .742     1       I 916      I   1.916          S.599      I   1.916   1    1I916         I    1-91       1    1,910        4     1,910             1.916
Sob-Totl - P-ps.-l                                                          0, 240         69,504          70,521           84,071           84,171       307,067          64,17           8417            84,171           84,170           84,171            84,171
1nsnbsntos                                                         4,000         4,000           4,000             4,000           4,000        200.000           4,000          4,000           4.800            4,000             4,088            4,000
Clntins slos-o                                   i              60    13        000  13       900  13         900   135         900   13        300         4,500   13         900  is        900   13        0,00   is        900     13        900              900
Sobs Intents sllotesote                                  ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~         ~~~~2,500  2,500  2,300  2,500     2.50         11,00             2,30           2.00            2.9              200,002,30
Pond SproInt   6atat                             N,            00    10       6,000C        8,000 CO        6,000    10       0,0      10     6,000m       30,000    10     6.0000  10      6,09000   10    6,80'0    10        O 9,00  1      6080608
PnOSontte,  dsn- --oto  91                     n             1,50    38    13,00 60    9,000  40          6,8       20      2,000             -          311, 5 00           -
OftIliftas                                                                    100           1,900           1,00              1,900           1,900         9,300           1,900           1,900           1.000            1,900            1,9000            1,9900
tlsdi-Il                                        No              20    24        480 24        480  24         480   24          480   24        4080        2,400   24         480  24        480   24        480   24         400     24        460               460
Total1 Retotop_t ton It P_ngro                                               82,520        94,344          98,301          102,931           99 ,931      489,067          89,931         99,931           99,951          99.951            99.351            89,951
Tota  RIcrt   Cost:n  Poojec   11905 iT
Peosose Cost)                                            81~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9,500  94,300  98,300    103,000         600,000       466,100          200.000        100,000          100,000         100,000           100,000           100.090
Opn-l  dtayiso                                                              97,300         94,300          08,300          103.007          lOCUQO0      490,127           UO,0ooo       lUOCOG0          170,0CC         l00,COO           100,000           100,000
21 31 bds O .     IdIlo  to 64 bad  altedy obibe
3/ Clinio Is basically aIfost aid staion ntit   a beth ...siet-o
sod no  eodi-t-t       u  48I -et.
/Cos  nf 32 lads, 50 obhts,  1  desk, ad I shaIs
01Coat of 2 desks,  6car   sod I itu   tobiteL_
0/ toad  -eri- OudgIttd at 911 fo-  5 days pat f-c  yet  caP
9/ Pond  -oplt  budg-ed an 950 Pot d-no,ntoppt               hnt.
Odlll.1:.ttcd One tantas on Pol_o: BI ild Ing 182,, On_dt 16% . Ote Sopply 70%, oo-hin-y, EqoiPue..t, Onus end F-totot 147,, IUnil-o 403 ond Foal,
tobtitst-  .d Spar  Pac-  303.
Jat-et 23, 1974



ETIIiOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOFPMNT PROJECT
Program and Prnlect Capital and Recurrent Costs
WADU: Marketing Credit and Cooperatives Division - Marketing and Credit Section
(Ith$)
Unit         Yeae 1           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5                               Year 6           Year 7           Year 80
Unit      Cost        No.      $       No.      $       No.      $       No.      $       No.      $          Total            No.     $        No.      $       No.
CAPITAL COST
Vehice 4 wheel drive 1                                No.    15,500        4  62,000               -                -         4  48,000               -           110,000
Cofe Grading Moehine                                  No.    16.000        1  16.000              -                -                -                -             16.000
Total Capital Cost of Program                                                  78,000               -                -            48,000               _           126,000
Total Capital Cost of Prejeet
(100% of Program Coot)                                                         78,000              -                -             48,000               -           126,000
Total Capitol Cost of Proje-t
in Enonotie Analynis  **                                                       51,000              -                 -            28,800               -            79,800
RECURRENT COST
Perooneel
Expatriate                                            No.    60,000           60,000           60,000               -                -                -           120,000
Local 2/
High Level 3/                                        No.     9,600              -                -                 -                -                -               -                   -                 -
Middle Level                                         No.     5,400        6  32,400       6   35,640       6   39,204        6  43,124        6  43,124          193,492           6  43,124        3  21,562             7,187
Coffee Processitg Meehanic                           No.     1,560        1   1,560       1    1,716       1    1,888        1   2,076        1   2,076            9,316           1   2,076        1   2,076             2,076
Driver                                              Ne.      1,440        4   5,760       4    6,336       4    6,970        4   7,667        4   7,667           34,400           4   7,667        2   3,834             1,917
OffMee oy                                            Noe       480        1     480       1       528      1                       R81   1   639                   2867            1     1,3        1     639 263
Sub-TYtal Per.onnel                                                           100,200           104,220          48,643            53,506           53,506         360,075              53,506            28,111           11,E19
Coffee processiog e-pensen 4/                                                    7,750            7,750            7,750               -                -           23,250                  -                -                -
Tenneanee - produee                                                                915              915              915              915              915           4,575                  915              915              915
Medical                                                No.         20      12      240      12      240     12       240       12     240       12     24C           1.200          12      240       12     240              240
Onhaisitonee allowanee and air fore                                              6,200            6,200            6,200            6,200            6,200          31,000                6,200            3,340            1,580
Total Renurreet Cost of Progran                                                115,305          119,325           63,748           60,861           60,861         420,100                60,861          32,606           14,554
Total R-e-rrrnt Cant of ProLert
(90C of Pregram Cent)                                                         103,800           107,400          57,400            54,800           54,800         378,200               54,800           29,300           13,100
Total Re.urrent Cost of Project
in Ecoenoir Analysis 00                                                        103,S00          107,400           57,400           54,800           54,800         378,200                54,800          29,300           13,100
1/  Recidual value of 4  hell drive vehicle entimated at Eth$3,500. Vehicle operating caste in ohosn under Warhk  and So-inee, Workshop and Carpool.
2/ Merit itcruase at 10% p.,. in iRoluded in unit cost fEr yearn 2 to 4, constant thoreaftor.
3/  Salsry eharged to Cooperative Onion where he would art as Eecutive S-eretary.
4/  Represents operating enpennen of coff.. processing naohinc Other than salaries) len rnevenue.  If after 3 years pro-es-ing centers pee not
profitahle or unable to break even, they wiR1 bh elosed down.
o   All coop-ratives woold be registered by the end of the 7th year and woald be able to operate without asnintane  by the end of year 8 ot which
ti.. this se-tian would be disbanded.
0   Adjusted for taces as follows:  Buildinge 18%, Poade 16%, Water Supply 207, Maehinery, Equipment, Tools and Furniture 142, Vehicles 40% and FPel,
Luhbicanat and Spare Parts 507.
Jaa,uaey 23, 1974



ETH1OPIA
SECOND WOLA0 O AGR1CULTTRAL DCVELOPOFJIF IROJECT
'rogra-. avd Proj- t Capita. S4C- Rer .-t Costs
WAD!: M-arketine. Credit and CooperaLives Division- Cooperative Development Section
(Eth$)
Unit        Year I          Year 2          Year 3          Yean  4        Year 5                       Oeno  6           -ear 7        Y-t 9           Cent 9         Year 10        Yeats 11-20n
Unit   Coot       No.     $      N..      $      Nv.      $      No.      $      No.      $       Total      Nv.             No.      $      N-.              No.     $      No.      $            $
CAPITAL COST
Vehicle - 4-ve-1 drive/               N..   15,500       1   15,500             _               -           12,000             -         27,500             -           0,Ooo                                           12,000            3,600
Offive Rqvipennt/                                             1,500             -               -,50Y                                                     1,500
Total Cvpital Coot of Program                                17,  000                                       1200                -        29,000           1,500          12,000             -               -            12,000           3,600
Total Capital Cost of Projevt
(100% of Program Cest)                                    17,000              -              -            12,000             -        29,000           1,500          12,000             -               -            12,000           3,600
Total Capital Cost of Pj rect
in Evonomir Analysisv                                     10,600             -              -             7,200             -         17,800           1,300          7.200                              -             7,200          2,200
RECURRENT COST
Pernornel,
Erpatriate                           No.   6o,ooo       1   6o,0oo     I   6o,ooo      i   6o,0oo                                      180,ooo
high Level                          No.    9,600       1    9,600     1   1o,56o      1     i,616     1   12,778      1   12,778       57,332     1   12,778      1   12,778      1   12,778
Cooperation Tn-pe-tvr               Nv.    3,o00      2    6,ooo      2    6,60o      2    7,260      2    7,986      2    7,986      30,832      2    7,946      2    7,986      2    7,986      2    7,986      2    7 986      2    7 986
Di-er                               No.    1,440      1    i,440      1    1,584      1    1,741      1    1,916      1    1,916        8,598     1    1,916      1    1,916      1    1,916      1    1,916      1    1,916      1    1,916
Sub-Total Personnel                                          77,040         78,744          8o,6i8          22,68o          22,680      281,762          22,680          22,68o          22.680           9,901           9,902           9,902
Clothing & Other Allowanves                                     260             360            46o              6o              6o        1,200             260             36o             460              60              6o              6o
Subsisten.e Allowanne and
Air Fare                                                    1,980           1,980          1,980           1,980           1,980        9,900           1,?60           1,260           1,26o             720             720             720
Medical                                No.       20      4       80     4        80     4        80     4        80     4       8o          4oo     4        8o      4       80      4       I0      3        3      6       6L              6o
Total Revvrrent Cest of Program                              79,360          81,164          83,138         24,800          24,8o0      293,262          ?4,280          24,380          24.48o          10,742          10,742          10,742
Total Renurrent Cyst of Projeot
(1009 of Progra-  Cost)                                    79,400         81,200          83,1oo          24,0oo          24,8oo     293.300          24,300          24,400           24,500          10,70)          10,700          10,700
Total Recvrrent Cost of Project
ia Econonic Analysis**
Resid-al talne of 4-wieel drive veli,le estitated at Fth$3,500. Vehicles op-rotiog nosto in shown nader Work  and Servic.m, W-rkshop ond Carpooi.
2/ 3 desks; 3 filing vabivetn and 3 vanh bags.
/  Menit itnrease ot 10% p.o. in innilded in onit rost fo- years 2 to 4, vonntant thereofter.
Rpepresents the -ver-ge annuI expenditore over the 10 years.
Febr-ao   15, 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program and Proiect Capital and Recurrent Costs
WADU:  -arktina, Credit and Cooperatives Division - Admitistration Stiton
(Eth$)
Unit         Year I           Year 2            Year 3           Year 4           Year 5                              Year 6           YTar 7            Yeer 8 0
UVit      Cent        No.     $        No.     $        Ho.      $       No.      $       No.      $           Total           No.     $        No.      $            $
CAPITAL COST
Vehicle - 4-wheel drivel'                            N..      15,500       1  15,500               -                _             12,000              -            27,500
Office Eqoipment 2/                                             _              5.100               -                -               -                 -             5.100
Tota1 Capital Coot of Progr                                                    20,600               -                -             12,000              -            32,600                5,100           12,000
Total Capitol Cost of Project
(100% of Program Cost)                                                         20,600               -               -             12,000               -            32,600               5,100           12,000
Total Capitol Cost of Project
in Econ-mic An=ly_i_ *O                                                        13,700               _                _              7,200              -            20,900               4,400             7,200
RECURRENT COST
Pereonnel: 3.
High Leve1 4/                                        No.       9,600                                                -                        -                        -                    -                -
Middle Level                                         No.       5,400       1   5,400        1   5,940         1   6,534        1   7,187        1   7,187          32,248           1   7,187         1   7,187            7,107
Secr-tacy/Typist                                     ho.      4,800        1   4,800        1   5,280         1   5,808        1   6,389        1   6,389          28,666           1   6,389         1   6,580            6,389
Janice Accountant/Caahier                            No        3,600       1   3,600        1   3,960         1   4,356        1  4,792         1   4,792          21,500           1   4,792         V   4,792            4,792
Driver                                               No.       1,440       1   1,440        1   1,584         1   1,742        1   1,917        1   1,917           8,600           1   1,917         1   1,917            1,917
office boy                                           No.         480       1      480       1      528        1     581        1     639        1     650           2867            1      659        1     639              639
Sob-Total  -ersoorel                                              -             15,720           17,292           19,021           20,924           20,924          93,881               20,924           20,924           20,924
Clothing Allowance                                   No.          60       2      120       2      120        2     120        2     120        2     120             600           2      120        2     120               120
Subsinta-ce Allowance and air fare                             1,260            1,260            1,260            1,260            1,260            1,260           6,300                1,260            1,260            1,260
Medical                                              No.          20       5      200       5      010        5     100,       5     100        5     100             500            5     100        5     100               100
Books, pe-iodicals, etc                                          900              000              900              900              000              900           4,500                  900              900               900
Training                                             No.         540       5   2,700               -                -                -                              2,700-                                  -                -
Total Recurrent Cost of Program                                                 20,800           19,672           21,401           23,304           23,304         108,481               23,304           23,304            23,304
Total Recorrent Cost of Project
(100% of Program Cost)                                                         20,800            19,700           21,400           23,300           23,300         108,500               23,300           23,300           23,300
Total Rcurrent Coat of Peojoet
in E-ocasir Analysi  **                                                         20,800           19,700           21,400           23,300           23,300         108,500               23,300           23,300           23,300
I/ R_idoal value of 4 uhbcl drive vehicle estimated at Erh6  3,500.  Vehicle operating COstS in shown under Works cod Servicsa, Workshop and C-rpool.
2/ 1 telcolating machine, 1 afe, 1 long carriage typewriter, I desk, 3 filing cabioetn and 3 cash bhgs.
3/ Merit i-crease at 10% p.c. in included in coit coat fWr year 2 to 4, constant thareafter.
4/ Chorged to Union where he wolid not an controller in addition to his doties is WAD0i,
o  All cooperrtives vould be registered by the end of the 7th year and wooEd be cble to operate withoat anniatanco by the end of year 8 ot which tine
the operatiom  of this Se-tion could be taken over by the Governmert.
*L Adjosted foe tones as follows:  BHildings 18%, Roads 16%, Water Supply 20%, Machinery Equipment, Tools -nd Fornitur- 14%, Vehiclen 40% and FPel,
Lobhi-onts and Spare Parts 50%.
Janary 23, 1974



SECOND W0OL005  AGRICULY0TUAL. lfVOLOPB5e5   PROJECT
Prora  and Projec  Capital and  ecrntCosts
W407:  1-ve-rorDlieilov.- ActifUic l I--er-oto  section
CoLt      Yer               Year 2          Year3            Year 4             Year 5                           Year 6              tear 7           Yea  0              Year 0        Year 10         Years 11-20
Colt      Cee      No                o                o               I.        2        N.        $          YTal1       IN.       $       No.,      $       Na        $        No               No       $
CAPITAL CiOST
B.tldteg: l/
D-naotea-o  R.aidenre
Ajaja(Abela), 25602   0 40/n2            No,      100        1                                               1,000---100-----                                                                                                                                        100
Rees) '3,le  0 $4/n                       100       1      ,000              ---                                                               1,000                -----100
Gam   (Bela) ,25.2 0 $40/a2               0        1,000     B     I1,00              --                                                                1,000                -----100
Ad.   i.t e tor-o
4..Af. &1   tore, Yin2 0 $120 /a2         '       6,400      1    6,400               -6  ,480                                                                               ------
nterg-nn  of Boil Orations                          350    tO)    3,500                                                                                3.500                ------
Sob-Total - Bildings                                                12,9800                                                                              12.980                -----300
Plant, Banhi-r,y 6 Eqelp-ent  -
Laboratory & S.rtirfito Eqoip-te
1,0  lietiq- iroo   ak                     0      17,05        1  17,750--                                                                             17,750              17,750              ---.3,550
250 _OterbtlatcL scrae _ak               '       10,000       110,000                                                                                 10,000              00,000             .---2,000
25 Ilter liquid si-rg- e-k                       1,00        2 10                                         2 280----,000                                                   2,000--                                       -                                           400
If liter biological holder                      I1000       16  16,000              ----                                                             10,000              16,00 o--o                                                                               3, 200
I...satnatte  Cachetr                            15      10     240              -120                               -120                             480                -120                                                 120               -108
Ai.I Kit Cavtrr                                 150      10   1,400              --                        -                          -            2,4000              2,400              -                -                  -                -400
Other Eqntp. (Thermo  Flesks,etc.)                                     750              -                         -                 -                        I570               750-- -                                                               -                iso
Vahinle - 4-h-1e drive 2/                   '      15,500        3  46,500      1    15,500                        3    30,000      1   12,000          117,000                -        3   30,000       1    12,000                        3     36,000            00, 000
Other Eqoip-n  -
off it. F'-Itl. S, Eqi,-t A/  2,132                                                                              ~~~~~        ~      ~~~~~~~~~ ~~2,132  1,432                                                                   286
fools ad T.9 lre_n                                     500             500               500            500        ~        500      ~     500     ~      250050Y050YO                                                                                 O50
Snb-Totol - Pl-Yc, NAnh, & Eqoip.                                  90,2_72           00.000             61                650           1(0            14012                50.832          36.620             12.500               620           36.500            21.394
Total Cepttal 70sf of Program                111,252           ~~~~~~      ~     ~~~~10,000  020   36,~500.        12,2           1 70,992             50,032         36,020             12,500               620            36,500            21,604
loca  Capita  Coe  of Project
(1005 at ProBran Cosi)                                            111,300            10,020             000             36,500          12,600         177,000              50,000          36,600            12,500               000            31,500            21,700
YTal Capitol Coat of Projeot
On Ernooil  Analyais  8c3,200                                                         9,200             600             22,100           7,000         123,000              43,700          22,200             7,700               600            22,100            16,000
OfECORRENT 7002T
feportar                             Oar-Y-e       40,000    1    60,000    I        60,0010    1   601,000                -                -         leI0,000
Loral 4/
High Levl0                                         9,600     1      9,0       1     1056       1   11:,016       1     12,770    1     ~1 7,7         57 ,332      1       12,778   1    12,770        1      12,:770     1    12,770      1     017I    2,770    2,2
Meddle Leort     0            5,400    3    10,200    3        17,02~~~~~~~~~~~0"  3    961 3     3,6              1561          96,744       3       21,561   3    11,561        3     2,61        3     21,561     3      2151151
Onber Cafe._r. -
-entea-t-  /                                 0   1,00 2         40,500   27       44,550   27   49,005       27      53,900   237  152,906         250,067      27       53,906  27    53,900    27        53,900    27    53,006   27         53,806            53,3900
Driver                  0            ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~1,4040    2  2,OBf    5  4,600    3    5,060     2       5,5074   2     5574          23,696        3       5,574   3       5,574      3       5,574      3      5,574    7       5,574             5.574
Gnad 6/                                        -    400   20       9.600   14       7.392   14    0.134        14       8.946  14      8.946         43.018      14        8.946  14       8.946    14        8,946    14      8.946   14        8.946             8,946
Onb-YT-l - Personne                                                 147 ,780         144,922         153,425            102,705         102,765        651,657              102,765         102,765           102,765           102,765           102,705           102,765
Orarlong..                              -                               00               00              000                 000            000          4,000                  800             800                000               800              000               800
Constriction Man. (Boll &S,I.Ocne.7    -  ~100   20     2,8000   20      200   20    2,000          20       2,000  20      2,000         10,000      20        2,000  20       2,000    20        2,000    20      2,000   20        2,800             2,000
NCe=   7/i                        Service                 3             -      0200      900  3,0    9,000  9,000        27,0   1,03750                 74.40    17,500      52,5001 22,500 67,500  21,000   63,80   211,000  63,0001  21000  63,01006,0
Disposable Clovee(flM~~~~~~~~~~~~~IiOO  .        -                 4~~~~~5  '00   450               13050          1,75           3,720                2625            3,75               3,050            3,150             3,550             3,550
PLasi     hoh(4    j100               --10                                                            135                 405            563           1,113                  708          1,013               194059595
P_roteLri GI tloho     teA0             sit             120   20      1,400   14        1,680   14    1,680       14       1,680  74      1,660           9,120     14        1,680  14       160       14       1,8       14       ,60     4       160160
Liquid Nit-ogen                                      3,400              -             10,200          10,200              10,200         10,200         40,000               10,200          10,200             10,200           10,200            10,200      -     10,200
sentiolde  for (solle                Bola             1000   30      2,000   30       3,000   26    2,60        22       2,20   20       2,000          2,1000     1          ,0    5        150      1          ,0                 0                 0                 0
Clothing Alle-a.ce                                       60   22      1,320   1         1,020   17     1020       17       1020  17       1,020           5,420     17        1020  17        1020    17         1020    17       1020   17         1020              1020
Sobsisoenc  Alloso-o  4 AIr pare        -3000                                          3,000           3,000               3.00           3,000         YS.000                3,000           3,000              3,000            3,000             2,000             3,00
Itedtcal                     ~~~       ~      ~~~~~N,.     20   59    1.1F0   40  960   48     960      48         960  48        960        -5.020        48          960  48    -960    48_ _ 960    48                  960   40          960               960
oo1Recorrent Coet of Progr-                                      161,488          160,337        105,270             153,380         164.363        033,030              100,030        185.013            190,720           190,220           190,220           190,220
REDIfHRJE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9
Boll Service 0/                 So netos                  2 3,000    6,000  3,300      6,600  2,o400  4,800  2,000        4,000  4,1000  10,000         20,9400   3,700       7,400 2,300   6,600  2,900         5,000  5,100    6,300  2,900        5,000            6,8000
4.0. ServIce                               ~      ~      ~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~2 - 10 200  1 00   2:700  3.00  6.000 500t   0             020 700             1.0      0    8001.0               1001.0           1001.0             1002,0
Sob-T.o.1 - R--ns                                                     6.000           6OB00            6.894100                  10.000                 47.600               21.400          24.600            26.800            27 300            26.800            27,800
10T1L NET7 REVENUE COST                                               155,480          161,737         170,470             143,300        146,363        705,432              150,650         171,213            163,920          162,920           163,420           562,420
Total Rotoroo  Coal of Project
71005 of Progr-  Coet                                                 153,500          161,700         178,500            143,400         146,300        705,400              150,600         171,200           163,900           162,900           163,400           162,4700
T.ota1 sRorret Ceer of Pr-j-nn
It frnE-nO   nolyala no                                               160,500          160,105    000  0a                 153,400         164,300        833.000              100,000         195,800           190.700           190.200           190,200           190,200
1/Mooreoant soa  oSoo  50dr Worke nod Hydr-o1is, Intya.rrv-t-re              6/ One g-od foret   Sse2ontn  crdbostos dotut-P'I'r -11Ysrt
2/Residsl vales of 4-eleesl dreve vehicle- o tloid   E th53,500.                  2. For Itoe   Yern 197578o1            7/ O      s  v~0%                 ..v.p... i   osad on 335. uhilr
ehitlan .pra....     tst I  s. ..L  ah.- onder I_krl a_d So-o-on, Workaboy      CLfo  years  1970/79 to10/02 Ii Lo o--r,  -t 40  ad siesaor  rSO     Peyef .                   or nI      neialvlropese    tsnaoin
andCaree.                                                                       0/ . 1. or       hel  arvi... charged only (or   t.. crsfol toeioe
2/Typ-wito_, 2 d-nks, S shoOts, 2 nhel-o  ned 2 filing c-hin-to                   9/Thir eh-Id he achieved by Yeor 13.
S/eivOc--o  at 10, P... In mo-loded is  -it  -tea  for Yean2to4_
5/Itld_  13 deov tron        _ o  eniocig 3I cener  nod the r-nin.ig
aeboll ensi-o  ,nenoss ihh ar atrrkr- by A,1. Sfosie-a
Repv.aeota the  -verog                        --olonedenaoe  do 10 pear.
noAdj-ated for rt-r  00 follove    Boildisge 10%, Roads 165. Wart- Sopply 202., M-nhinvy, Ei,-itnn,  n-ls nod Oonln-r  547., OrhIsSes 407 ond Pen,
Lsbri-avt,jd Spere Parse 507,,



00  o  BOBO             0,0,0,0~~ OB       OOBCC00                    2 4R~~22                                             -~0B                0 0 0 0              0
.1 I ~          ~              O-CO                OBO                    OBBC00 0'00B                        C B B
-  ~ ~   ~ o2~~o  ,-~~CC-Cg0  ~     ~            ~OC~~                  000400            100'CBBO-O-B   CO p0  -   B pp           : Ii 
0  BC  0  0        00   C   OCCIBOB  B  00    00,000   lOB                     0000CC    OPB000LBC~2 S    .    . . 
.B. .    .C.B  .5 .~ .  SB                               CBB                CB CSBA                         ,BB        BOSB                O0
PB  B00C~~0-C0CC              . .BO ...       .CCB        ...    . . .0- 'P    .BO  .    .            B--              OB 00             I 
Co      BBCBB2           O.-C. .           .. . .   .   .CC.                      C
-2"'    'B    C  CBBB            .  .0 ..0.0..0.  .~0          C          CO.                          CB  .BO 
P0  oB  B   -                                       2..    ..    ..                                         -  
q x3m0 0m;i                                                                                                              OB 






V  ZZZIOZitztZZK               oo'oz     00000 00 0000         000
-               0-000000000             00000000    00000   -   001 d
a-0--  0o00-.oOooo 9,, 00
 'o99 99                              0g,0                 ono.   o - oro-
0 0-00.0  0   -   0,0 oooo,...oo  000-00(0,, 0 0009  oncOono    000000,o0o       -       001
000>  00-000o0  00 ojO 00000 On 00000000  00 00    00000000                 - 0'0 00  0000 0    0
Ooo '00  000 0      0000 00000   000000.0000    '0 00 000  000000   000002000o.    ' 0
-00   0000-00  0    0000" 00 00.o    0000 000                    0    oW
- 000 0. 00000      0-000-0 0<    0 0  Q 0000- Ooooooooo,-' 0.00000-   0 000000  0         00000
00-0 000000o00.0 00  00000   00 ' 00     0000 10>0  00000    0000o.o,00  00000000.  00    0000
000000  0000   00-00o'    0  0 00  0 00.' 0'0-200-00000   000  00 00    000.
OoO  -00'0000  0          00                       0 0   000   000000  000 oooo-000
-  0  00000000 0            ,.-  0 '00 0  0          0000000          -   000000000000
0  0  0  00          000    00   0  0
0 0 0 0  00000      0- 000 00 0 0        0           00 0000          -0          000
00-00  0-0000000 00    000 lo'  00       0            000000. 00 000         0  0   00.000
   ,12>V        000'00    00                      00000                         o  00
00  00       0         .0  00     000
000000  t                                       0  00
00,0    000,  o   0        o   ,-                    0   0      0   00        00  00     00
000  00              00  0                         0000           -'         9  j    9'
000000                om   o
0    0           0    0
000 00000             00                            0 0
000 00-0              ' 00                          0 00
0                    9  9
00000-                                            0    -                    1000      00
000   0   0                                                                       00    0-
0-0  0000-'        .  .   -                                                                    00
00    '0   00-0    0-                      '0               00
90 '000                                     o               00000   oOOOoO:   9'   '2
00  09                                 0.0               0000000000000
- 0  '0                    0 0  00000000o0 00            00 0,00 o'OoO 00000o0   000           00
000000-00    00000000000 00            9 0 00 OOoOOooOo    00    0 0         00
00  00           0.0000000     00000000 0000                0 00 0000000000   000        0     on
0  00,0000      00     -                                                               0
-   0000  0   0 0o00000o-         0                                              000     0     0
000    0         00 oooooo     OOOOOOoooo                   0 0o0.-o00000000    Co       0     c->
000  00                                                                                         0
t2ooooo9ooooooooo                                 '0,                        00 99  Lo
00     0    0000000000000   00000000                       9999 99999              9 000
9.>
I- 9
00    9 0000000o0000-00000 00000000000000  000000                                      '0
00000       0                                                                             go         o
'0        0   -0   0
00    00000000000000000000000000           000000                                        0         00 0 0
o        00    o    0
-     000000000000000000000000000 000      0 0 000000,' 00000.000    '0000                         "   0
0   000000000000000000000.00000000  000  0 0 000                                        0             9
9     o9.                         0                                                                       0   0
-   0    9t0                                                                                             0000
9
0-   0               00           000    0000             0                             00       000
000000000000000000000000000  00    0' 0 000          0                            '0
0   000000000000009900000000000  00      00  990         00                            0
0   00 000000000000           000 00     0 0      0       0                                     00 0
90                                                                            0,0               9
9 00000000000000000000000000000  000        0 0 00000000   00000000   000
0   00000000000000000000000000000        0 0 000
100            9
0   00 0000000000000000 0 0000000000000  0 00 0 00 0
I            09
00   0   000   00    00000000000         00  00           00       00        o 0
0   OoOcOOooOo-o000 0 OOOoooO  00        0 0 000 OCoOCO 0009000000  090   00000        0         0 0 0
0 OOoOoo 00000 0000000000 000  0 0 0 00 00000000 0000 00000  0  0  0 00      0
0 000000000000 00   0 0 00000000  0000000000  000   000
0 0-       0 0            0 000000000                    0   000000000
0    0           0
0    0-   0                                                                                    '00
0-   '0                                                                                         9-
0       0    00              00           00      0   00   00  00
0       0  0000000000000000000000    000000000000000000
0       0                                  -                   0 - 0.--..-0    000   000        00
0       o   0 oO'O 0000000000 0 0000000000 000    0 00 00 00 oO000o   000000000
-       -   ooo.000.-.o000000000000000000         0 0 00 000000   000000000
o0000000000000000000000000000        0 0 000000000   000000000
00            0000000000                                                      0
0                                                                             00
00 000<0  00  000000000000 00        0 0 000         0
000000000000000 000000000 00         0 0 0000'--, 00 0000000000,   000
0 0000000 0000000000 000000000000    0 0 0 0- 00     0
00 0000000000000 00 0000000000000    0 0 0 0 0       0
00000000000000'0000000000 00        0 0 000' 0000  ''0000000   000   000          00
0000009000000  090000000009000       00000
0  00000  000  00000000000 00        0 0 000
000000000000000 0000000000 00        00  00000000  0000000.0000    000
000000000000000000000000             0 00 000
000000000000000000000 o'9 >0         o o 0000
0000          00000000000                                                     0
-  -   -         00
0000000000000        0 0 0000
0009900000000000 000000000 00        0 0 0 OCo 0 0 0 90
0 000000000000000 000000000000
00          00      0 0 0 0
0  0000  000  00000000000 00         0 0 000    0  0  0   000
00 00      00000000000000000000000    00000
9 999fl  99  999999oo oo          0 00 00 o 0000 00 00000000000
000000000 00 000000000000      0 00 0 0 000900 ooooooooo                     00



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program and Projlet Capital and Reurrent Coats
WADU:  Liv-sto-k Division - Prod-cti-o  S-ction (Cootd.)
UVit       Year 1          Year 2           Year 3          Year 4            Year 5                      Year 6            Yeer 7           Year 8           Year 9            Year 10        Years 11-20
Unit     Cast      Na.     $      Na.       $      Na.       $      NP.       $      Na.      $        Total      Na.       $      Na.        $     No.        $      No.        $       Na.      $           $
REVENOD l/_
Milk sales 2t                            Its      0.40  1351000  54,000            54,000          54,000           54,000          54,000   2/0,000              54,000            54,000           54,000            54,000           54,0C0           54,000
Poultry slels 3/                        Na.       4       3,700   14,800           140 00                           14,800          14,800    74,000              14,800            14,800           14,800            14,800           14,800           14,800
S0b-Tota1 - Revemo                                                 60,800           68,800         68,800            68,800          68,800   344,000              68,800            68,800           68,800            68,800           68,800           68,800
Total Net Recurreet Coet of Program                                 2,520            7,694         13,455            19,858          19,858    63,385              18,603            18,603           18,603            18,603           18,603           18,603
Total Rerareent Cost of Projeot
(80% of Program Cost)                                              2,000           6,100          10,800            15,900          15,900    50,700             14,900            14,900           14,900            14,900            14,900           14,900
Total R-crrrert CEst of Project in
Econamic Analysis  i                                                  600            4,700          9,400            14,500          14,500    43,700              13,500            13,500           13.500            13,500           13,500           13,500
WADU: Livestock Division - Livesto-k Market 4/
CAPITAL. COOT
Model I - Primary Market 5/                                        19,200            -               -                  -              -       1920                  -                -                -                -                -1
RECURRENT C0DT'/                                                    8,200           8,600           8,600            8,600           8,600    42,600               8,600             8,600            8,600             8,600            8,600            8,600
1/Disregarding inoame from possible sale af sarpl.a yonsg stork. Maite prodnctton
suffictent fEr total rattele -o-entrata reqaiteretas Ear rows and youag rattle.
2/45 rows @ 3,000 It per yeat sah  135,000 It.
3/2 orops per year, 10% mortality - a.re   sales 3,700 bitds  Xi as pullets 15 fPr meat.
4/Ierladi.g east of dip .ed athO  drags       ...e.e.sey.
I/P., details cse IoDit Appraisal Miteiar Report 'Bond Li-estook DOv-lopment Proje-t,
Amexa 4, Table 2.
NRepreseats the average aen-al expenditure aver eth 10 years.
it Adjastad for tames as flovLs: baildimgs 18t, Roada 16%, Water 8upply 20%, Makhi-ery,
Equipment, Tools and Fn-it-re 14%, Vehiclts 40% a-d FPal,  Lublica-ts aad Spear Ports 50%.
APS i; ;.  i3-



ETHIOPIA   *
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DE       hENT PROJECT
Program and _rorjcL Capitol and Racorrat Costs
WADU: Works and Snrvic-s Divinton - Intf-stracrtr SRction
USit    Ylam 1           Year 2          Year 3           YToo  4         Year 5                      Year 6          Year 7          Yaro             Year 9          Year 10          Tear t1-20
Unit     Cost  SN.               SN.      $      N.              No.              o.      $      Total       No..     $      Ro.      $         .             No.             No.       $              $
CAPITAL COST
Baildiag 1/
Admiaistrative- H.Q. Offire                    m2       200   91 18,200              _                                                        18,200
Water SWpply
H.1. Instellation                                                 49,680             -               -                -               -       49,680                                                                                -
Plant Hachtnery & Equipmant
Vehialan 2/
4-wheel drive                                  No.   15,500   1  15,500              -               -         1  12,000              -       27,500              -         1  12,000'            -                -          1  12,000           3,600
4-wheel drive with  inch                       No.   19,700    2  39,400             -               -         2  32,400              -       71,800                              -                                                 - -
Oration  -agon                                 Na.   12,100   1  12.100              -               -         1   9.500              -       21.600
S1b-Total - Plant, Ma-hinery 4 Equipment                            67,000              -               -           53,900              -      120,900              -            12,000              -               -             12,000           3,600
Tntal Capitol Cost of Program                                      134,880              -               -            53,900             -      188,780              -            12,000              -               -             12,000            3,600
Total Capitol Cant of Projat (100% of
Progra-  Cost)                                                     134,900              -               -           53,900              -      188,800              -            12,000              -               -             12,600           3,600
Total Capital Cost of Project in
Eronomic Anelyais                                                   94,900              -               _            32,300             -      127,200                            7 7,200            -               -              7,200            2,200
RECUtRENT COST
Pnrsonnel: 3/                               Mat-Years
Righ Level (Road 8uperintendent)4/                             1      -        1      -         I     -        I      -         I     -           _-                      -                        -                                 - _
High Level (Ptnject Engineer)                        16,800 1800   116000      1  18,480       1  20,308       1  22,361       1  22,361    100,330
Nigh Levnl                                             9,600   3  20,800       3  31,680       3  34,848        3  38,334       3  38,334    171.996
Middle Level                 ~,                     ,5 400        21,600           23,760          26,136          28,748          28,748    128,992
Other Categ-ry:
Clerka and Building Persannel 5/           ,          3,000  13  39,000      13  42,900      13  47,910       13  51,909      13  51,909    233,628
Watte Parsonnel 4/                                            2      -        2      -         2     -         2     -         2     -           -
Drio                                                  1,440   2 2,880          2   3,168       2   3,484       2   3,832       2   3,832      17,196
480   2      960      2   1,056        2   1,162       2   1,278       2   1,278       5,734
CasaP Lrabn                                ,,           480  10   4,800      10   5,280       10   5,810      10   6,390      10   6,390      28,670
Road Personnel 4/                                            22      -       22      -        22     -        22     -        22
Consultant                                          80o.00o      20,000           20,000       0  20,000             -               -        60,000
Sob-Total - P-rsonne l                                             134,840         146,324          159,678         152,852         152,852    746,546
Bnoks and Pertidicals 5/                                             1,500            1,500           1,500           1,500           1,500       7,500
Blut Prirnt  j/                                                       1,200           1,200           1,200           1,200           1,200       6,000
Clothing Allowance                                          60   4      240             240             240             240             240       1,200
Medical                                          No.        20  35      700     35      700     35    700       35      700      35     700       3,500
Maint.s,anrr cost of exi_ting Admi.
and Rdsidoal oBildingo                                              21,260           21,260          21,260          21,260          21,260    106,300           31,890           31,890          31,890          31,890            31,890          31,890
Maintenance cost of New Office
,nd Residentil  aildi8gs                                                -            21,802          21,802          21,802          21,002      80,200          21,802           21,802          21,802          21,802            21,802          21,802
Subsistenre Allowanre and Air Pare 8/                                8,262            8,262           8,262           8,262           8,262      41,310              -               -               -
Utilities 9/                                                        31,000           31,000          26,644          21,000          21,000    130,000
Vehicles IEspnction charge 9/                                         5,000           5,000           5,000           5,000           5,000      25,000              -               -
Total Recurrent Cost of Prngram                                     204,002         237,288         245,642         233,816         233,816  1,154,564            53,692          53,692          53,692          53,692            53,692          53,692
TotoI Re_nrrrnt Cost of Proj_ct
(807U of Ptogram Cost)                                             163,200          189,800         196,500         187,100         187,100    923,700           43,000           43.000          43,000          43,000            43,000          43,000
Total Recurrent Cost of Project in
Emonomic Analysis                                                   163,200         189,800         196,500         187,100         187,100    923,700            43,000          43,000          43,000           43,000           43,000          43,000
1/ haisttenatece CORt Cs included Senow.
21  Residnal value of 4-wheel drive is ntimated at $3,500 and of station wagon at $2,600.  Vehicles operating rents is shasn cnder ..t.n and Services, Workshop end Carpool.
3/ Merit intreasa at 107. p.o. is incl,ded in unit coot far yenta 2 to 4, conetant tbameafter.
4/  Salaries of Rand Perso-nnl ore in-luded it the kilometer cost of constructito  (Table   ) and salaries of Wotnr Personne] are included onder R-nal Wkt_r Supply (Table . .
5/  Includes 11 building pnrsonnl and 2 clernk.
6/ Tn be osed by the Work. and Servires. Diitsi.
7/ Co he 'I'd by the Project.
F/ Par Ptoject Engineer, Adninistr-tion Assistant, and Buildings Personnel.
9/ Par wohle Project.
n Adjosred for t-en  an follows:  BRildings 18%, Rondo 167A, Water Sopply 20%, Machinery, Eqtip-net, Toals and F-rnit-re 147, Vehicles 40, and FPel, Lubri-anta and Spare Parts 50-
April 12, 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOD WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Progr[m and Proeent CaPital -nd Recurrent Costs
WADUS: Works and Serice  Division - Workshop and Carpo1 Section
Unit      Year I         Year 2        Yeor 3          Year 4         Year 5                     Year 6          Year 7          Year 8         Year 9         Year 10          Years 11 - 20
Unit      Cost      N..      $      o.    $      No..     $     No,       $     No,      $      Total       N.                     $ No,  5  N,    0     H.o      $      No,     $
CAPITAL COST
Building  O/                                  H
Administrative - Workshop (800m)             N..      120,000    1   120,000                                                               120.000
Plant, Machinery & Equipmeot -
Heavy machinery - Lathe   chine              "         30,000    1    30,000            -                              _             _      30,000               -               -              -              -              -                _
Mobile workshop           "        20,000    1    25,000            -                               --                   25,000-                                             ----
Vehicla  /       - 4-wheel drive             "         15,500    2    31,000            -              -     2    24,000             -      55,000
Other Equipment -
Light rachine shop equipment                                          21,308            -                           7,700         19,300    48,388
Tools end Implements                                                     6.720       6,720          13.440           6.720         13.440    47,000               -               -              -               -             -                -
Sub-Total - Plant, Machimery & Equipeent                              114.108        6.720          13.440          38.420         32,740   205.428
Total Capital Coot of Program                                         234,108        6,720          13,440          30,420         32,740   325,428
Total Capitel Coat of Project
(100% of Program Cost)                                                234,100        6,700         13,400          38,400         32,800   325,400
Total Cepital Coet of P. ject in
Eionomir Asslysie w                                                    188,500       5,800          11,500          26,800         28,200   200,800               -               -              -              -               -               -
RECURRENT COOT
Persoonel: 3/
High Level                             Man-Yess         9,600    1      9,600   1  10,560   1    11,61'      1    12,778   1    12,778    57,332-
Middle Level                             "              5,400    0    43,200   8  47,52G   8    52,272    6    57,406   0    32,496   257,984
Other Cotegory -
Auto-electricisn                                       1,800    1      1,800   1   1,440   1       2,178    1      2,396   1      2,396    10,750
Assistant Terhgicia-"                                  3,000    5    15,000   5  16,500   5    18,150    5    19,965   5    19,965    89,560
Me-hbntial helpar                                      2,160   20    43,200  20  47,520  20    52,272   20    57,499  20    57,499   257,990
Driver -
4-wheel drive                                         1,440    2      2,880   2   3,168   2       3,484    2      3,832   2      3,832    17,196
Mobile wormkhop                                       1,800    1      1,800   1   1,980   1       2,178    1      2,396   1      2,396    10,750
Guard                                                    4080    3     1.440   3   1,584   3       1,743    3      1,917   3      1.917      8.601
Sub-Total - Persosnel                                                  118,920     130,812         143,893         158,279        158,279   710,183               -               -               -              -              -
Fuel, Lubricants asd Spare Parts 4/                                   434,100      440,700        440,700          434,100        427,500 2,177,100           353,800          339,200         303,600       289,100        289,100          289,100
Clothing Allowance                            No.           60   40      2,400  40   2,400  40       2,400   40      2,400  40      2,400    12,000               -               -               -              -              -
8shsistenee Allooonce & Air Fare                            20   41        820  41      82O  41        820   41        820  41        820     4.100               -               -               -              -
Totol Recurrent Cost of Program                                        556,240      574,732        587,813         595,599        588,999 2,903,383           353,800          339,200         303,600       289,100        289,100           289,100
Loss: R-.en.e fram Repair S.evice-
of Non-Projoct Machinery                                          2,000        2,000          2,000           2,000          2,000    10,000                -               -              -              -               -               -
Net Rerurre-t Cost of Program                                          554,240      572,732        585,813         593,599        586,999 2,893,383           353,800          339,200         303,600       289,100        289,100           289,100
Totol Recurrent Cost of Project
(902. of Program Cost)                                                490,800      515,500        527,200         534,200        528,300 2,604,000           318,400          305,300        273,200       260,200         260,200          260,200
Total Recurrent Cost of PD joct in
Eron-oi Analysis u                                                     230,000      240,600        252,400         265,400        365,400 1,253,8077           0S,500          107,300         104,400       103,200        103,200           103,200
I/Maintenanca cost is shown under Wo-ks aod Seryirga. Infrastructsre.
2/Residual value of 4-wheel drive is estimated at $3,500. Vehinles operating costs in shown under Works and Services, Workshop and Carpool.
3/Merit isorease at 10/, -.a, Es inclndcd in unit cost for yearn 2 to 4. cnnstant ther-after.
4/Frpm Yearn 6-20 workshop will hove bhes closed and 107, added to roat
of fuel lubricae.t and spare parts to cover lobor charge foe servic-
ing. The budget for fuel, lubricants, and spare parts covern the
whole Project except marhinery eod vehicle to be uoed for the "Road"
Program; the latter iten are included under 'Rondo" per kilometer cost,
*  Adjusted fur taunt as follows:  Buildings 18%, Rends 167,, Water Supply 20%, Machi-ery, Equipment, Tuols and Furniture 14X,
Vehicles 402, and F-Ie, Lubricunts asd Spore Parts 50%.
April 12, 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program and Project Capital and Recurrent Costs
WADU: Works and Services Division - Central Stores Section
(Eth$)
Unit       Year 1         Year 2        Year 3          Year 4          Year 5*
Unit     Cost      No.      $      No.    $     No.      $     No.       $     No.      $        Total
CAPITAL COST
Store (Modification of Existing Store)        -        -             7,600             -      -               -                      -       7,600
Total Capital Cost of Program                                        7,600             -              -               -              -       7,600
Total Capital Cost of Project
(100% of Program Cost)                                              7,600             -              -               -              -        7,600
Total Capital Cost of Project in
Economic Analysis                                                   6,200                     -               -                      -       6,200
RECURRENT COST
Personnel: 1/
M.L. (Storekeeper)                      Man-Years   5,400    1    5,400       1   5,940    1   6,534       1      7,187     1   7,187      32,248
Other Category:
Assistant Storekeeper                   "    "      3,600    1    3,600      1   3,960    1   4,356       1     4,792      1   4,792      21,500
Store helper                           "i           1,800    1    1,800      1   1,980    1   2,178       1     2,396      1   2,396      10,750
Guard                                   "             480    2       960     2   1,056    2   1,162       2      1,278     2   1,278        5,734
Casual Labor                            "             480    4    1,920      4   2,112    4   2,323       4     2,555      4   2,555      11,465
Sub-Total - Personnel                                              13,680         15,048       16,553            18,208         18,208     81,697
Clothing Allowance                         No.          60    4       240     4      240    4      240     4        240     4      240       1,200
Medical                                    No.          20    5       100      5     100    5      100     5        100      5     100         500
Total Recurrent Cost of Program                                     14,020         15,388        16,893           18,548         18,548      83,397
Total Recurrent Cost of Project
(90%of Program Cost)                                              12,600         13,800        15,200           16,700         16,700      75,000
Total Recurrent Cost of Project
in Economic Analysis                                                12,600         13,800        15,200           16,700         16,700      75,000
1/ Merit increase at 10% p,a. is included in unit cost for years 2 to 4, constant thereafter.
*   After year 5 workshop will be closed.                                                                                                                a
February 12, 1974



ETISIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO ACRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program and Prolect Capital and Recurrent Costs
I/
WADU: Finance Division-
(Eth$)
Unit          Year 1               Year 2                Year 3               Year 4            Year 5                      Years 6-20
Unit     Cost       No.                    No,         $        No.         $       No,         $       No.        $      Total           $
CAPITAL COST
Building: 2/
Administrative - h.Q. Office                     m2        200    119.25    23,850                    -                    -                   -                  -        23,850
Plant, Machinery & Equipment -
Vehicle 3/ - 4-wheel drive                      No.    15,500        1        15,500                  -                   -          1       12,000               -        27,500          -
Other Equipment -
Desk (double pedestal)                         "          270       1           270                 -                    --                                                 270           -
Desk (single pedestal)                                    200       2           400                  -                   -                    -                  -          400           -
Filing Cabinet (4-drawers)                      "         300       4         1,200                                                                                        1,200          -
Swivel Chair                                              320       1           320                 -                    -                    -                             320           -
Chair (regular)                                            23       4            92                 -                    -                    -                               92          -
Shelf                                                     100       2           200                  -                   -                    -                 -           200           -
Adding Machine                                            630       2         1.260                  -                   -                    -                  -         1,260          -
Sub-Total - Plant, Machinery & Equipment                                      19,242                  -                   -                  12,000               -       31,242           -
Total Capital Cost of Program                                                  43,092                  -                   -                  12,000               -        55,092         2,755
Total Capital Cost of Project
(100% of Program Cost)                                                        43,100                  -                    -                 12,000               -        55,100         2,800
Total Capital Cost of Project
in Economic Analysis                                                          32,100                  -                    -                   7,200              -        39,300          2,000
RECURRENT COST
Personnel: 4/
High Level                                              9,600       3        28,800        3     31,680        3      34,848        3       38,333      3    38,333    171,994            -
Middle Level                                            5,400       3        16,200        3      17,820        3     19,602        3       21,561      3    21,561       96.744
Other Category -
Junior Accountant                                      2,160       2         4,320        2      4,752        2       5,228        2        5,750      7      5,750     25,800
Cashiers & Payroll Clerk                               3,000       3         9,000        3      9,900        3      10,890        3       11,979      3    11,979      53,748
Driver                                                 1,440       1         1,440        1       1.584        1      1,742        1        1,916             1,916       8.598
Sub-Total - Personnel                                                         59,760               65,736              72,310                79,539            79,539    356,884
Stationery & Office Supplies                                                    4,800                4,800               4,800                 4,800             4,800      24,000
Medical                                           No.         20     10           200       10         200       10         200       10         200    10         200       1,000
ibsistence Allowance & Air Fare                                              11,088               11.086               11.088                11,088           11,088      55.440
Total Recurrent Cost of Program                                                75,848               81,824              88,398                95,627            95,627    437,324         21,866
Total Recurrent Cost of Project
(707. of Program Cost)                                                         53,100               57,300              61,900                66,900            66,900    306,100         15,300
Total Recurrent Cost of Project In
Economic Analysis                                                              53,100               57,300               61,900               66,900            66,900    306,100          15,300
I/After rear 5 the costs of this Division are assumed to be only 25%
of the annual average of the costs through 'fears 1-5.
2/Maintenance cost is shown under Works & Services, Infrastructure.
3/Residual value of 4-wheel drive vehicle estimated @ Eth$3,500.  Vehicles operating costs is shown under Works and Services, Workshop and Carpool.
4/Merit increase at 10T. p.a. is included in unit cost for years 2 to 4, constant thereafter.
April 12, 1974



ETHIoPTr
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program and Project Capital and Recurrent Costs
WADUS  Co.n   evcsDvso                esne  sectio -I/
(Lth$)
Unit         Year I                  Year 2               Year 3             Year 4               Year 5                      Years 6-20
Unit     Cost       No.           $        No.          $       No.         $        No.           $      No.
CAPITAL COST
Building: 2/
Administrative:
H.Q. Office                                      m2       200     29.25       5,850                   -                   -                    -                   -         5,850
Plant, Machinery & Equipment:
Vehicle 3/                                                                        -                                                                                              -
Other Equipment 4/                                                     _        2568                   -                    -                   -                   -         2,568              -
Total Capital Cost of Program                                                    8,418                  -                    -                    -                   -         8,418            421
Total Capital Cost of Project
(100% of Program Cost)                                                          8,400                  _                    _                                                  8,400             400
Total Capital Cost of Project in
Economic Analysis                                                                6,900                  -                    -                    -                   -         6,900            300
RECURRENT COST
Personnel: 5/
High Level                                               9,600        2        19,200       2      21,120        2      23,232         2     25,556       2       25,556   114,664                -
Middle Level                                             5,400        1         5,400       1       -5,940       1       6,534         1      7,187        1        7,187    32,248
Other Category:
Clerks                                                  2,400        3         7,200       3        7,920       3       8,712         3      9,582       3         9,582    42,996
Driver                                          No.  __1.440         I _        .440       1        1.584       1        1,742        1      1.916        1        1,916      8,598
Sub-Total - Personnel                                                           33,240               36,564              40,220               44,241                44,241   198,506
Stationery & Office Supplies                                                     1,800                1,800                1,800                1,800                1,800      9,000 
Clothing Allowance                                No.        60        1            60       1           60       1           60        1          60       1           60        300
Medical                                           No.        20        7           140       7          140                  140        7         140       7          140        700
Subsistence Allowance & Air Fare                                                 7,392                7,392                7,392                7,392                7,392    36,960
Employment Advertisement Fee                                                     1,500                  750                  750                  750                  750      4,500
Pre-Employment Medical                                                           2,000                1,000                1,000                1,000                1,000      6,000
Air Fare of Recruits                                                             9,000                4,500                4,500                4,500                4,500    27,000
Adjustment Ailowance for Recruits                                            __9.600                  4,800                4,800                4.800                4,800    28,800               -
Total Recurrent Cost of Program                                                 64,732               57,006               60,662               64,683               64,683   311,766           15,588
Total Recurrent Cost of Project
(70i of Program Cost)                                                           45,300               39,900              42,400               45,300                45,300   218,200          10,900
Total Recurrent Cost of Project in
Economic Analysis                                                               45,300               39,900               42,400               45,300               45,300   218,200           10,900
llAfter Year 5 the costs of this Division are assumed to be only
257 of the annual average of the cost through Years 1-5.
2/Maintenance cost is shown under Works & Services, Infrastructure.
3/Personnel Section will share one hard-top vehicle budgetted far
under Central Services Section.
4/3 desks, 16 chairs and 1 filing cabinet.                                                                                                                                                                    ,
5/Merit increase at 10% p.a. is included in unit cost for year 2 to 4, constant thereafter.
Febrorary 13, 1974



nDeOLAr
*P~I 001A00 M28C0101*L DCVU.0 Y~ TEIJIC
prmr r md Yrvi6ct vitt l  0d 1or.t COOt$
WA00: C_O  S-'l-cee Div.loo - C.ot-.  Sr-Lt...  -ti  Ift
(EM$S)
Volt         55.0 1              SOr 2             .Ter 1              05cr 4            Yoa 5                      1..r. 6-70
Unil    COSt      0No.         S         o  $0             S 0 No         S    o 8       $ S      o       $ t     Yt l           '    _
CYIOTAL
ya tld tug 2 /
Adtidiintg   -2000
Ohdl no.trotlve -
N Q  OEfice                                 ro2       200     100      20,00                                     -                                           20,0W
Stff Cltb hHooe -362,2                      N                   I       s0O                  -                  -                                   -         s07 
S.b-Tot.l - Boilding                                                    55.000                                    -55.00
PYt.Lt, M. hL.eoy & Equipnolt -
4-44oo1 drico                                '     15,500       1      15i500                                              I _  1  12,D 0                    27,500
B00                                                                                                    -                   I    33,000                       33,000
Sa.o                                         "     11,2Q0       2      22,400                -                   -        2      17,400                      39,800
Furniture 4/                                 ,,       320       1       6,065                -                                                                6,065
Typeocoltors                                         bNO0      13      10,400                -                   -                                           10.400
Doplicoting Ma hine                                 1,000       2       2,00                 --                                                               2,000
Phol-oopy 0-h- n                                    2500        1_      2,500                                   -                 -                           2,5W               -
S.b-Tnt.l - Pl-nt, M-hi-nery
oud Ooyteouot                                              58,665                -                  -               62,4W0                      121.265       
Tot01  C.pit.l Co-o  of Progroc                                        113,865                                                   62,400                      176.62            0,015
t-ls  Copital ..00 of P-031-1
(100% of Peogem Cost)                                                  tl3,900                -                  -               62,600                      176.3W              .800
Tot.1 C.pitol Cost of ProJect
in  U_o_tk Analy sl                                                     85,900                -                  -               37,400              -       123,500            S,30
OEC'29,0E0  100>1
Peronlel: 5/
middle Lovol                                         5,400              10,000 I2           11,m00       2     13.068       2     14,374      2    14,374     64,490
other Catewory -
Typixz-p-ol  4opoerlsur                             4,000       1       4,000       1      5.280        1    4.800         1      6 389      1    6,389      280660
Sypitnt                                             3,600      10      36.000      10     39,000       10    43.560       10     4, 920     10   47 920    215.000
Aethtettt                                           1,6Q0       1       1,000       1      1.900        1      2.170       1      2,396      1    2,396      10.750               -
Dupllcalog Mochine opeloler                         1,800       2       3,600       2      3,960       2      4.356        2      4,792      2    4,792      21.500
Telpteho..  COeralr                                 1,800       1       1,800       1      1,980       1       2,178       1      2,396      1    2,396      10.750
Ortoor - but
floe                                               1,000       1       1,00        1      1.900        1      2.178       1      2,396      1     2,390     10,750
4-srhool dIlvO                                     1,440       2       28000       2      3.168       2       3,404       2      3,832      2     3,832     17.296 
Goord                                                 480       2         960       2       1,056       2      1,162       2      1,278      2    1,270        5,734
J nitur                                    ,,         4b0      15       7.200      15      7,920       LS      8.715      15      9,505     15    9,585      43,005
Hood Jalitue                                          600       1         600       1        600        1        722       1        709      1       799      5,584
H       irden r                                       408       7       3,360       7      3,696        7      4,067       7      4,473      7    4 473      20,069
Office Boy                                            400       6       2.980       6       3.168       6      3.406       6      3.834      6     3.834     17.202
S.b-Tot.1 - Peronnl                                                     78,480              86,328             94,906            104,464          104,444    468,702
stOtiOtry 4 Office SoplliOs                                             14,000              14,00              14.000             14,000           14,000     70 000
Clothi"' All oN.ce                            No         60      31       1,060       31      1,860      31      1,800      31      1,860     31     1,860       9,300
Book., P_tiodlualo,  6et                                                  6,000               2,000              2,000              2,000            2000       14,000
lOedloSl                                      No.        20      S1        1,020      51      1,020      51      1,020      51      1.020      51     1,020      5.100
Teltphono, Post, Tele.rooo                                                3,600               3,600              3,600              3,600            3,6W       18,00
W0t00  old Electricity, Addi Oft00                                         720                720                720                720              720       3,600
Rout                                                                      6,000               6,000              6,000              6,000            6,000      30W000 
A.dit.lor  Fee                                                            20,000             20,W0              20,0W              20.000            20,000    100.OO
O--ur-uct Fee                              _                             60 WO   _           EO                    00W      0      0000             800000    400,000
Totol Recurrent Coot uf Proor- n                                         211,680            215,528            224,166            233.664          233,604  1.118,702            55,935
Tot-I RA! urr t Co.l of p0o1010
(071 of Progro Coot)                                                     148,200            150,900            156,900            163,500           163,600    703,100           39,200
rctm! R-!tt-t Coct cf pr2ject
A..lysli                                                    .00,250             150,900l           156,900            103,500           163,6W     783.100           35,200
1/After Year 5, the -0,10 of this DOliioti ore *soo2d to be
only 25% of the  -.nool ovoroor of the  -0t. th1500h Y--01  1-5.
2/iototeuaneo Cost shown under Works & Oervtes, Infrastructure.
3/2sRidool :.loe of 4-v.hel drbis v-hicle .sti-ot.d O EthS3,500.  Vohicle op-roting -00t0 i  htz -nd-r Worh . od Sorvleee,
Work.hop sod Co1ptP1.
4/15 de-ks, 16 choirs, 6 helve.     d 3 fili0t  c-bint..
5/Sit  tn10creose 01 100  p.o. io i-luded i= ..it cull for y000  2 to 4. const0- thro-ft.r.
FebrtOry 13, 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO ACRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program and ProjecL Capital and Recurrent Costs
WASU:  Project Diroerion Division- Prolec                L Managemt Section
(EthS )
UPit      Yeor I          YTar 2        Year 3         Year 4          Year 5                     Year 6          Year 7        Yeer 8          Year 9         Year 10        Years 11-20*
Pe_t     Coat       No.         $  No.    $      No.     $      No,       $     No.      $      Total      S.n                                           No.            .o.      $
CAPITAL COST
Buildings: 1/
Admietriattive
H,Q. Offica                                m2        200      86   17,200            -              -               -             -       17,200
H.Q. Office, Toilets & Corridora            a2       200    160   32.000             _              _               _             -       32.000              -              -              -               -               -               -
Sub-Total - Buildiags                       m2                      49,200            -              -               -             -       49,200
Plant, Machinery & Equipment
Vehicle - Saloon 2/                        No.    11,200        1   11,200            _                     1     8,700            _       19,900              -        1   8,700            -                -     1    8,700             2,610
Offire FPrniture 3/                                                  3.522            -              -                             -        3.522           2.290                            -                -             -                458
Sub-Total - Plant, Machinery &
Equipnent                                              14,722            -                           8 8.700          -       93,422           2,290           8,700            -                            8,700            3.068
Tortn  Capital Coat of Prog-eaS                                      63,922            -                           8 8,700          -       72,622           2,290           8,700                                         8 -,700          3,068
Total Capital Coat of Project
(100% of Program Cost)                                               63,900            -              -            8,700            -       72,600           2,300           8,700            -               -           8,700             3,100
Total Capitol Cost of Project in
Fconomir Analysis **                                                 50,000            -              -            5,240            -       55,200           2,000           5,200             -               .           5,200            2,000
P.SClP=SN COOT
Persouuel:
Expetriate                                         60,000       1   60,000    1   60,000    1   60,000   1    60,000    1   60,000   300,000                   -                      -               -                      -               -
Local 4/
h0L.  (Pr.Jct Dirct or.)             MVan-Year    20 000        1   20,000    1   22,000    1   24,200   1    26,620    1   26,620   119,440    1    26,620             1  26,620    1   26,620    1    26,670   1   26,620               26,620
0.1. (A-se. Proj. Vlgret                0           9,600       1    9,600    1   40.560    1   11,616   1    12.778    1   12.770    57,332                   -               -----
ML. (Cxec. S-cretary 3                              7,200       1    7,200    1    7,200    1    8,012   1         9,583    1    9,583    42,278    1       9,583       1   9,583    1    9,583    1        9,583   1    9,583              9,583
Other Catogory:
DSieer                                "            1,440       1    1,440    1    1,584    1    1,742   1        1,916    1    1,916       8,598    1      1,906       0   1,016    1    1,916    1        1,916   1    1,916              1,916
Sob-Total - Per.onnel                                               98,240        101,36!,       106,270        110,897        110,897   527,648           38,119          38,119         38,119           38,119        38,119           38,119
Clothing All-ovnce                          No,         60       1        60    1        60    1        60   1         60    1        60       300    1         60       1       60    1        60    1         60   1        60                60
Subsistence Allcwanre & Air Fore                                      12,640        10,640         10,1'0'        10,640         10,640    53,200            3,547           3,547           3,547           3,547         3,547             3,547
Coneoltare Pee                                                        ,5000          5,000          5,040           5,000         5,000    25,000            i,667            1,667          i,667           1,667         1,667             1,667
Medical                                     N..          20      4        80    4        80    4        80   4         80    4        80       400    3          60      3       60    3        60    3         60   3         60               60
Training (abroad)                                                    40,000         40,000         40.000         40.000         40,000   200,000           20,000          20,000          20.000          20.000        20.000            20.000
Total Recurroot Coot of Program                                      154,020        157,124        162,050        166,677       166,677    00,563 453                        63,453         63,453          63,453        63,453            63,453
Total Returrent Coat of Projtct
( 80'of Program  Cost)                                              121,200        125,700        129,730        133,303        133,300   645,200           50,800          50,800          50,8000         50,800                          50,800
Total Racurreat Cost of Project
in  -conamir Anvlynis                                               123,200        125,7300       129,730        133,300         133,300   645,200         514,633           5.8U0         530,800          53,800        50,800            10,600
/M ain.enan.e cost ahoen under Works and Ser-ires. Infrastructure.
J/Residual volon of saloon car estimated at Eth63,500.  Vehicle operating costoto is  oshon  der Wcrk aod Seovitra, Workshop and Carpool.
3/2 desks, 2 swiiel rhairs, 54 -Iall ehaira, 2 filing cahbiots, 2 teblhe
and 2 shelves.
4/Merit increase at 10% p.a. is included in ..it cost for year 2 to 4, constant ihereafter
0  Represnens tho a-arnaoganaol e-penditure aver the 10 yearc.
Adjusted for ta-os as follows:  Buildiags 18%, Roads 16%, Woter Supply 20%, Machinery, Equipmnnt, Tools and Furoit-e  1404,. Vehicles 407 and Fool,
Ltbricats_ and Spare Parts 350%.
April 12, 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program end Pr-oiet Capital and Recurrent Costs
WAoRi: Proiett Direction Division - Planning & Evalua-ion Section
(Eth$)
Unit      Year I         Year 2          Year 3        Year 4            Year 5                    Year 6         Year 7        Year 8          Y-as  9        Year 10       Years 11-20 *
Cait     Cost      t.n,     $     No             N.e.                     $     No.      $      Total      No.      $      No.,    $     No.      $     No.           NSo.      $           $
CAPITAL COST
Building: 1/
Administrative  - S,Q. Office               m2        200      50   10,000           -              -                -              -       10,000                                           -                             -                -
Plant, Machi-ney & Eqnipment -
Vehicle - 4-wheel drive 2/                 No.    15',500       2   31,000            -              -      2     24,00O            -       55,000              -      2   24,000             -             -      2    24,000            7,200
Adding Machine                             No.        630       2    1,260           -               -               -              -        1,260          1,260             --                                           -                252
Calnulating Machine                        No.      1,450       1    1,450                   -               -         -            -        1,450          1,450             -               -             -              -                290
Moistore Meter                             No.      1,500       1    1,500            -              -               -              -        1,500          1,500             -               -             -              -                 300
FPrniture 3/                               No.                       3.780                                                                   3.780 3-780                                                                                    756
Slb-Total - Plant, Methinery and
Equipmest                                               38,990            -              -             24,000           -      (62.990          70990          24,000                                       _ -  24,000       8,798
Total Capital Cost of Progran                                        48,990            -              -             24,000           -       72,990          7,990           24,000            -             -            24,000            8,798
Total Capital Cost of Project
(100% of Program Cost)                                               49,000           -              -             24,000            -       73,000          8,000          24,000             -                          24,000           8,800
Total Capital Cost of Project in
Eco-nomi Asaipais *                                                  33,700            -              -             14,400           -       48,100          6,900           14,400            -             -            14,400           5,700
RECURRENT COST
Pernonnel: 4/
Expatriate                            Man-Yee-    60,000        1   60,000    1   60,000   1   60,000                -              -      180,000              -             -               -             -              -                 -
Local - Sigh Level                                  9,600       3   28,800    3   31,680   3   34,848    3        38,333   3   38,333    171,994    2   25,555         2   25,555    2   25,555   2   25,555    2    25,555              25,555
Other Category
Enuserat-r                            "            2,400       4    9,600    4   10,560   4   11,616    4        12,776   4   12,776       57,328    4   12,776       4   12,776    4   12,776   4   12,776    4    12,776              12,776
Driver                                'l           1,440       2    2,880    2    3,168   2    3,484    2         3,832   2    3,832       17,196    2    3,832       2    3,032    2    3,832   2    3,832    2         3,832           3,832
Casual Labhr                                         480       2      960    2    1,056   2    1,162    2         1.278   2    1.278        5.734    2    1,278       2    1.278    2    1.278   2    1.278    2         1.278           1.278
Sab-Total - Personnel                                               102,240         106,464      111,110            56,219        56,219    432,252         43,447          43,441          43,441        43,441          43,441           43,441
Stationery                                                            5,000           5,000         5,000            5,000         5,000     25,000          5,000            5,000          5,000         5,000           5,000            5,000
Books & Periodicals                                                   1,000           1,000         1,000            1,000         5;OOO      3,000           1,000           1,000          1,000         1,000           1,000            1,000
Clothing Allowance                        No.           60       2       120    2       120   2       120    2         120   2       120         600            120             120            120           120              120             120
subeisteace Allowance & Air Farc                                      4.000           4,000        4,000             4,000         4,000     20,000          4,000            4,000          4,000         4,000           4,000            4,000
Medical                                                  20      9       1880    9      100   9       180    9         180   9       180         900    8       160     8       160    8       160   8       160    8         160             160
Postage                                                                  ioo            too           1oo              100           100         300            100             100 l100                     100              100             100
Total Recurrent Cost of Program                                     112,640        116,864       121,510            66,619        66,619    484,252          53,821          53,821         53,821        53,821           53,821          53,821
Total Ranurrert Cost of Project
(80% of Program Cost)                                                90,100         93,500        97,200           53,300        53,300    307,400T)        43,100          43,100         43,100         43,100          43,100          43,100
Total Recorrent Cout of Project in
Econopic Analysis                                                    90,100         93,500        97,200            53,300        53,300    387,400         43,100           43,100         43,100        43,100          43,100           43,100
l/Maintenance cost shown under Works & Srrvices, Infrastructure.
2/Oraidual wol-e of 4-wheel drive  cohile estimnted at Eth$',500. 'vehicle op-raLi:,g cOta it  shown nuder Wokas and Services, Worushop nod Carpool.
3/5 desks, 4 filing cabinets, 13 chairs, 5 brief cases, 64 bon files.
4/Merit increase at 10' p.o. is included in unit tout for years 2 to 4, constant thereafter.
o   Repr-necse   the average a-nnal capeuditure over the 10 yearn.                                                                                                                                                                                             aPx
**  Adjusted fur tanes as follows:  8uildiugs 18%, Rondo 10%, Water Supply 20%, Machicery, Equipm.ent,                                                                                                                                                         c
Tools and FPreitore 14%, Vohiolos 40% and FPol, Lubricants and Spare Prts 50L-.
April 12, 1974



H      *   100010-010-     00-H-OH   00-00  000000000000                         0-
000(00   000   000-000(00-  0                      H        (0 Ho-tOO
**               00000-0(0  0.00-  0-000.000   H              000-0000       000-00   OH         H  H  00-0    0-00000H        0  4
HO   4o            000000,0  0-00   000(000.0    V 00000-  00-0-0  H           00-0-00-  0-0      0  0  0   0-  00000-  4:   4
-      00   .000-          0O   --   000-  00-000.  0  H 000004 oo.oo  o               000000   0 0    0-  H  0-   ( 00.01
o0-0          0         00-0   00-00-0   0000-0000.0-04                   90-000-0-  H -    0  0-   oH   0.00
0-00-000            000-o 00000.0000-0                                 0000-000,00                               4
00    O00o  0000(00-000000 00000-0000o                                                        H  0                     0
oOO             00(00      000-0-'  0.0-0   00-0-00-00              H                                  00                  00  0
00   000            HO 000       00000-  0.00            0-  000   <0-            H  HO   0-0   .0  0  000 -                     0  00
0-     0.0   0  0          000010        00000-HOO   -0-  ( 00   000   0    OHOHOO                   0.   0       00       0(0(00'  00
0  .0<0           000010       0-  00000       0      00  H0040-0loo  H       0000(0   0         0  10-0 o0- 0                     H
ooo  000            0-00-00      OH' 000         0  H 0-0  00000    00.00       00000         0-   H  00. (00-   0000000000000-00lo
0      0    00-            00   00             00       0-  00                                             0
'0(0  oCO           0(0          10-000              00 0                                                  00  0 00000000-
0000             0-                   00.   0-04   04                         0-0
0-000                                          00000 0 0-00000000001000000.

00       0          00           00fl40 0-          0   (0                     00000   000-000  (                       000
0    000              0                 00           0   0                      00   00   0000   00                      .    0-
00   0(0              0  00     000-000                  0                       *0000.  00000-  00  00
00 0000              (0 0(0  (0 0 0-                 0  0-                                00440   00HOH0C
0  9'               0  00
00            0-  0-0     0'  (0                  0                         0-      0   000        oo0-o.oo-o-    00
00-
H                  0                       H  H H0-00    0-0.  0-0    00000             0-
0 Hg0                  <H    H 0                       0-                       0 001    OHO                           0  0-
0                                 0-.                                             000t o11-.  0000
0-0    0.0            0  01       00 0-                                           0  00  0        0         0    000-0-000    0
00   00              0  00       0  0                                            o  oO         00       0 gO 0    00000       0
r   o-04            (0000       00
0  0                0   -0          0                                                    .0-  H
1  0C                                                                                   0   0100      '000       00000000
4.00                                                                                  00.0
00 00-0
0-0  0.0-0-                                                                               00
000                                                                                   0     '0      OH        0000
0.00  0-0-                                                                                       g       gg
0(0    00-
00   0--                                                                                          0      00       0000
000  000-                                                                                         (0       0
7                                                  0=0-0=
00<    0-00
0- (0 '0=0 0
1                                                 0-0-0-  (.00
020 000
0                                             000-H0-00  0000                               0000         00000-400000000         00
0. 0                          .       00                       0                                                         0            0-
00  00  0  00000-0-  000004000-  00 00000000  0000          00 00  0-  00 00400  00000000   0 000000000-0-000-   -
0    00                                 0               000-0-0-0=000
00  H  00   =00-00     0-0-      0-0-0-0-0-0-  00-                                                                     0             0
0-  0  0-  0-000-00  00000000-00  0-0-000-0-00  000-         ((0          000   000(    (0(0(0(00
0  0-  0  00000000  000-00000000  0000-0-0000  0000                                                                                  Hg4
'0                     4
0                    4
00     00  0-000000  000000000  0000-0000-  0-0-            0  00  0  00 000
0                                                                                 0-            00
00    0-    0-                   00=0          000-         0-   0-    0-   '0     (0                                   0
0  00   000-0-      0-0-     00-0000-0-  00-             00  0  0  0-          0
004
0-0-000000000-0-0000-0-  00 00000(000  00-                   0- 0-  0- 0- 0-       00                                                        4
H  00  00  0-000000  0-000000-00  00-0-0-0000  0-00         00 00  00  00 00       00                                                 0
O  0-  0-  0000000-  000-000000000-00000-000-0-0-           00 00  00  00 00       00
0                                                                                 0
=                  040-000-0-               0-0-     00000-0-0-000-
0.    00           0-  0  0  00000  0-00000-0-  (0 o000000  00-
0-          0  0  00  0-000-0000-000-000000-0-00-  0000
'0                 0-  00  0-  0000000-  0000000000000-000-0-0-000-0-
-                   0  0'  0-                        00-           0-0-
000-0-0-0-                0-     0-0-0-0-0.000               00 0-  0-  0-         0-      0-
0                  0-  =0  0-0-0-0-000-0-000-0-0-  0000000000-0-0               0000-000-0-00-000-00-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-00                     H
00                 000-0-00000-0-0-0-00-0-  0-000000-0-  0000                   0- 00  00  0-00000-  0-0-00000-00-0-000-0-000            (0
0                  0-  00  0  000-000  00000-00-00  0- 0-0-00000-  00-          0  00  00  00 00-0-  0000000  00 0-0000000000-00          0
00  00  0-  0000000  0000000000  0- 00000-000-  00           0  00  00  00 000000  0000-00  00 0-0000000000000       (00
00                 0-  0-  0-
00                 o  C'  0-                         000-          000-
0000         000-0-     0-00     0000000-0-  000-           00  0  0
=                  0-0-0000000-0-0-0000-0-  00 0-0000-0  00-                    0-00  0000000-  0-  0000
.0                 0-000-000000000(0000-000000-00 0 0- 000-                     00 00  00  00 00 00 00  00 ( 00 00
0                  00    C  0-   00 00 00 00    00 00 00 00 0- 000-000-0-0-H  0- 00  00   00   00   00  00 00 00    00   00 00
00    00  0-                     000-          000-          0-   0-    0-    0-   0-
0000         000-0-     0-0-     00000-0-0-0-0-              0  0  0  0            0
0-  .00000000   000-0000-0-  00 00000-00  00-                0  00  00  00 .'(00(('('((''                             0-
0000   000-000000000-00000000-0-0000-  000-                  H  00  00  0          00
0  a   0-  0000000  0000000000000-000-0-0000  0-            H  00  00  00         00
0-  0-  -                        0-
00  0-  0-                       000-          000-
0000         0-000-     0-      00-0000-0-  0000
0-0-000-0-0000000000-00   0 0000000  0000                   00 00  00  0-
00  00  00  0-00000  000000000-  0000-0-00-  0000           00 00  0-  00 oH      (((0
00  00  0-  00000-00  000000000-00000-0-0-0-00               0- 0-  00  00  00
0-  0-  0-                       0-
00  00  0-                       0000          000-
000-         0-0-0-     0-00     00000-0-0-  0000
0-  0-  0  H0000000000000-   0 000-000-00  000           0- 00  00  0- 00
00  00  00  0-000000  00-000 0-0  000-0-0000  0000          00 00  00  0-00
00  o   0-  000-000  0000-000-0-  000000-0-000-00            00 00  00  0000
000-0-0-0  000-                                                                   0<
00  0-  0-                       0-
00    00  0-                     000-          0000          0-   0-    0-    0-   0-
0000         00-0-      0-0-     00000-0-0-0-00              0  0  0  0            0                                    00
0-  0-  0  000000  000-00000-  00 00000000  0000             0  00  00 00          00
0  00  0-  0-00000-  000000000000-000-0-0000  0000           0- 00  00  00         H
00  0-  H  000-000-  000000000000-00000-0-000-00             00 00  0- 00          00
0-0-0-                           0-
00  0-                        0-0-         0000           -  0-  -
0-   000-0-     00-      0-0000-000-  000-           00 0-  0- 00          0-      0-
0      0    -                   0           0  0   0  0           0
0-  0-  0-  000000-0000000-00  00 000000-00  0000           00 0-  00 W000-0-00000-000-000-000-0-O0-0
00  00  00  00000000  0000000000-0-000-000000  000-          00 0-                   00000-00000-0000000000             0-
00  00  0-  000000  0-00000-H   0-000-0-0-000-00             00 00  00 4484                 ooooooooo                   00
fl 0TOJ
 0-00-tOY



ANNEX 5
Table 22
ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program and Project  Capital and Recurrent Costs
WADU:  Project Direction Division - Information & Public Relations Section
(Eth$)
Unit       Year 1          Year 2       Year 3          Year 4            Ye4r 5*
Unit      Cost     No.      $      No.    $      No.      $      No.       $     No.        $      Total
CAPITAL COST
Building: 1/
Administrative:
H.Q. Office                                  m2        200      30     6,000           -              -               -               -        6,000
Plant, Machinery & Equipment:
vehicles: 2/
4-wheel drive (L.W. base)                   No.    21,500        1    21,500           -              _      1      17,000             -      38,500
4-wheel drive                               No.    15,500        1    15,500           -              -      1      12,000             -      27,500
Other Equipment:
Office Equipment 3/                                                    1,192           -                              -                        1,192
Tape Recorder                               No.        500       2     1,000           -              -               -               -         1,000
Projector (16 rm)                           No.    10.500        1    10.500           -              -              -                -       10.500
Sub-Total - Plant, Machinery and
Equipment                                                 49.692          -                            29,000             -       78,692
Total Capital Cost of Program                                           55,692           -               _            29,000             -      84,692
Total Capital Cost of Project
(1007, of Program Cost)                                                 55,700           -              -             29,000            -       84,700
Total Capital Cost of Project in
Economic Analysis                                                       38,000           -              -             24,900             -      62,900
RECURRENT COST
Personnel: 4/
High Level                              Man-Years   9,600        1     9,600    1  10,560    1   l11 lE   1          12,178     1   12,778    57,332
Middle Level                                          4,800      1     4,800    1   5,280    1    5,808   1           6,389    1    6,389    28,666
Other Category
Assistant                                            1,800      3     5,400    3   5,940    3    6,534   3           7,188    3    7,188    32,250
oriver  -1 440    2                                                  2,880   2   3,168    2    3e484  2             3832    2       3.832   17 196
Sub-Total - Personnel                                                  22,680         24,948         27,442           30,187         30,187   135,444
Stationery                                                              2,400          2,400          2,400            2,400          2,400    12,000
Clothing Allowance                                        60      2        120    2      120    2       120   2          120    2        120        600
Field Days & Demonstrations                                             8,000          8,000          8,000            8,000          8,000    40,000
Medical                                      No,          20      7        140    7      140    7        140   7         140    7        140        700
Subsistence Allowance & Air Fares                                       5,160         5.160          5,160            5,160          5,160   25,800
Total Recurrent Cost of Program                                        38,500        40,768          43,262           46,007         46,007   214,544
Total Recurrent Cost of Project                                        30,810         32,600         34,600           36,800          36,800   171,600
(dQ% of Program Cost)                                                  30,800         32,600         34,600           36,800          36,800   171 600
Total Recurrent Cost of Project in
Economic Analysis                                                      30,800         32,600         34,600           36,800          36,800   171,600
l/Maintenance cost is shown under Works & Services, Infrastructure.
2/Residual value of vehicles estimated at Eth$4,500 and Eth$3,500. Vehicles operating costa is shown under
Wurks and Services, Workshop and Carpool.
3/3 desks, 4 chairs, 1 filing cabinet and 2 shelves.
4/Merit increase at 10% p.a. is included in unit cost for years 2 to 4, constant thereafter,.
* After year 5 the activities of this section will be taken over by EPID.
March 12, 1974



ANNEX 5
Table 23
ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program and Project  Capital and Recurrent Costs
WADU: Project Direction Division - Internal Audit Section
(Eth$)
Unit       Year 1          Year 2        Year 3          Year 4           Year 5'
Unit    Unit Cost        No.       $    No.      5    No.       $      No.        $      No.        $        Total
CAPITAL COST
Building: 1/
Administrative -                           2
H.Q. Office                             m         12    2G0             2,400           -              -                -                  -         2,400
Plant, Machinery & Equipment -
Vehicle 2/
Office P,-niture 3/                                                      1,138                                           -                  -         1,138
Total Capital Cost of Program                                             3,538           -              -                -                  -         3,538
Total Capital Cost of Project
(100% of Program Cost)                                                    3,500           -              -                -                  -         3,500
Total Capital Cost of Project in
Economic Analysis                                                         2,900           -              -                -                  -         2,900
RECURRENT COST
Personnel: 4/
High Level                                             9,600      1      9,600   1   10,560   1   11,616   1           12,778      1   12,778        57,337
Middle Level                                           5.400      2    10.800   2    11,880   2   13.068   2           14.375    2   14.375          64,498
Sub-Total - Personnel                                                    20,400         22,440         24,684           27,153          27,153       121,830
Stationery                                                                2,400          2,400          2,400            2,400           2,400        12,000
Medical                                                    20      3          60   3         60   3         60   3           60    3         60           300
Total Recurrent Cost of Program                                          22,860         24,900         27,144           29,613          29,613       134,130
Total Recurrent Cost of Project
(80/ of Program Cost)                                                    18,300         19,900         21,700           23,700          23,700       107,300
Total Recurrent Cost of Project
in Econoric Analysis                                                     18,300         19,900         21,700           23,700          2_,700       107,300
l/Maintenance cost shown under Works & Services, Infrastructure.
I2/Included under Legal Unit to be shared with the Internal Audit Section.
13/3 desks, 6 chairs, 1 filing cabinet and one shelf.
4/Merit increase at 107. p.a. is included in unit cost for years 2 to 4, constant thereafter.
* After year 5 the activities of this section will be taken over by EPID.
March 12, 1974



ANNEX 5
Table 24
ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program and Project Capital and Recurrent Costs
WADU:  Project Direction Division  -  Legal Section
Unit        Year 1         Year 2          Year 3         Year 4          Year 5*
Unit      Cost     No,      $      No.      $     No,      $      No.      $     No.        $      Total
CAPITAL COST
Building: 1/
Administrative
H.Q. Office                                m2          200    12    2,400             -             -                -               -        2,400
Plant, Machinery & Equipment -
Vehicle - 4-wheel drive 2/               No.        15,500      1   15,500            -             -        1   12,000               -      27,500
Office Furniture 3/                                                    646           -              -               -                -          646
Sub-Total - Plant, Machinery
and Equipment                                            16,146           -              -            12,000              -       28.146
Total Capital Cost of Program                                         18,546            _             _            12,000               -      30,546
Total Capital Cost of Project
(100% of Program Cost)                                                 18,500            -             -            12,000              -       30,500
Total Capital Cost of Project in
Economic Analysis                                                     11,900            -             -              7,200             -       19,100
RECURRENT COST
Personnel: 4/
high Level                            Man-Years       9,600      1    9,600   1   10,560    1   11,616    1   12,778           1   12,279     57,332
Other Category:
Assistant to Legl                    "   "          1,800      2    3,600   2    3,960    2    4,356    2    4,792           2    4,;92    21,500
Driver                                '   .         1,440       1    1,440   1    1,584    1    1.742    1    1,916           1    1,916      8,598
Sub-Total - Personnel                                                 14,640         16,104         17,714          19,486          19,486    87,430
Stationery                                                               600            600            600             600             600      3,000
Clothing Allowance                          No.           60      1       60   1         60    1        60    1         60      1        60        300
Medical                                     "             20      4        80   4        80    4        80    4         80      4        80        400
Subsistence Allowance & Air Fare                                       3,696          3,696          3,696           3,696           3,696    18,480
Total Recurrent Cost of Program                                       19,076         20,540         22,150          23,922          23,922   109,610
Total Recurrent Cost of Project
(60% of Program Cost)                                                  15,300         16,400         17,700         19,100           19,200    87,700
Total Recurrent Cost of Project
in Economic Analysis                                                  15,300        16,400          17,700         19,100           19,200    87,700
I/Maintenance cost is shown under Works & Services, Infrastructure.
I/Vehicle to be shared with Internal Audit Section. Estimated residual
value Eth$3,500. Vehicles operating costs is shown under Works and Services, Workshop and Carpool.
3/1 desk, 1 filing cabinet, 1 shelf and 2 chairs.
4/Merit increase at 10% p.a. is included in unit cost for years 2 to 4, constant thereafter.
* After year 5 the activities of this section will be taken over by EPID.
March 12, 1974



ANNEX 6
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Soil Conservation Program
1.        The soil conservation program of the first project was planned to
deal mainly with the two settlements. It achieved its targets there and fur-
thermore initiated the construction of about 350 km of terrace bunds in the
highlands together with some gully stabilitations and introduction of contour
plowing. The program would be extended under the Project to other parts of the
District. In addition, a training program for farmer group leaders would be
introduced. An effort would be made to evaluate the costs and benefits of the
ongoing program, for the lack of such data hampers the formulation and imple-
mentation of larger programs for preserving the already badly eroded arable
land in Ethiopia. The program would encompass three main activities: bund
building and contour cultivation; gully control and land rehabilitation; water
development and program monitoring.
The Program
2.        Bunding and Contour Cultivation.  About 60% of the staff time of
WADU's Land Planning Section would be devoted to this aspect of the program.
Leaders of farmer groups would be trained in line levelling and would train
their members in contour ploughing. It is anticipated that about 4,200 ha/
year (21,000 ha total) would be protected in this way.
3.        Gully Control and Land Rehabilitation.  About 20% of the Land
Planning Section's staff time would be devoted to this element. Gully
control and land rehabilitation would be carried out through a tree planting
program supervised by about 17 demonstrators. Fourteen small tree nurseries
(2 per sub-district of 0.5 ha each) would be established and operated by WADU
to provide tree planting material to farmers free of charge.
4.        Water Development.  The balance of the Land Planning Section's
staff time would be given to water development planning described in Annex 4.
5.        Program Monitoring.  Until data on the costs and benefits of soil
conservation are available, only token conservation components can be added
to development projects. These limited efforts would in no way be adequate
to meet Ethiopia's real and increasing need for effective erosion control
programs. The Project would, therefore, provide for an initial study for
the collection of this data and the design of a more comprehensive system
for extended data collection. The services of consultants or other appro-
priate institutions acceptable to IDA would be retained to:



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(a) Carry out a reconnaissance survey of the Wolamo District to
determine whether a meaningful monitoring program could be
mounted;
(b) If feasible, to design a program including all associated
agronomic trials, soil surveys and structures 1/ required;
Cc) Supervise the construction of measurement and observation
structures and to train Project staff in recording procedures;
(d) Carry out annual supervision over the Project period;
(e) Analyze all data; and
(f) Prepare a report on the results of the program before the end
of Project period.
It is envisaged that the soil conservation study would be similar in nature
to the experiments being conducted by East African Agriculture and Forestry
Research Organization to ascertain the effect of different land uses on
hydrological cycles. Those experiments involve measuring run-off and silt
load from matched catchments (one unimproved as control, the other one
improved by conservation measures outlined above), monitoring of soil condi-
tions and measuring land productivity with agronomic trials. The study would
require about 20 man-months of hydroecologists, agronomists and soil specialists
at a total cost of Eth$200,000.
Benefits
6.        Production from an unprotected land unit with 10-15% slope has been
estimated to decrease 5% in 20 years and 35% in 50 years. Taking into
account a rapid acceleration of deterioration after a slow start, the benefits
of the bunding program (Table 1) would result - if two thirds of WADU's Land
Planning Section's economic costs are deducted - in an economic rate of return
of 11%. Though more spectacular than sheet erosion, gully erosion presents
less of a hazard; hence greater weight has been given to bunding in the con-
servation program. While no attempt has been made to quantify the benefits
of gully control and land rehabiliation, they are also expected to be significant.
I/   Probably flumes to measure run-off incorporating automatic silt samples;
automatic rainfall readers.
March 12, 1974



ANIhgB 6
ETMIOPIA
13C09 WO5LASO tGIMTML   0MYE                B    ypiCl3T
Land ConoIStY&M Program
Production
percmt of                              P o tdu .i
Before            p4rie~az*  of Land                        ba.
DoSYlOPt _i                                           _ W _ltbg  1  5;0,
Yearr  1               0.2                4200)                - 21
2                0.4               8400)                 - J/
3                                 L26W                  1670.5  80 2}
4                a. 7             *16^0)                 22
5                o01.9            21000)                 28
6                1. 1             21000                  35
7                1.3              21000                  41
8                1.5              ztooO                  47
9                1.7              21000                  54
10               2.0              21000                  63
1I               2.3              21000                  72
12               2.6              21000                  82
13               2.9              21000                  91
14               3.2              21000                 101
15               3.5              21000                 110.
16               3.8              21000                 120
17               4.1              21000                 129
18               4.4              21000                 139
19               4.7              21000                 148
20               3.0              21000                 15R
21               5.4              21000                 170
22               5.8              21000                 183
23               6.3              21000                 198
24               $.8              21000                 2i4
25               7.3              21000                 230
26              .7.8              21000                 246
27               8.3              21000                 261-
28               8.8              21000                 277-
29               9.4              21000                 296
30              10.0              21000             .  315
31              10.6              21000                 334
32              11.3              21000                 356
33              12.0              21000                 378
34              12.8              21000                 403
35              13.6              21000                 428
56              14.4              210003                454
37              15.2              21000                 482
38              16.2              21000                 510
39              17.3              21000                 545
40              18.5              21000                 583
41              19.7              21000                 621
42              21.0              21000                 662
43              22.3              21000                 702
44              23.7              21000                 747
45              25.1    -         2l0w                  791
46              26.5              21000                 835
47              28.0              21000                 882
48              29.6              21000                 932
49              31.4              21000                 989
50              33.3              21000                1050
1/ The assumption made is Chat the production from one hectare of land
iwould decline as shown in the table by 33.3% over 50 years and to a
residual level of production of 33.3. over one hundred years. (See
also0 Anex 5, Diagram  1).
21 ln the conservation program 4200 ha are to be protected each year
making a total of 21000 ha over the 5 year project period.
A4ri 1.2, 1974;






ANNEX 7
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Improvement Program
General
1.        The major livestock component included in the Project is a cattle
crossbreeding program for first project areas; the program would be linked to
improved health and extension services, and would aim at raising milk production
and annual offtake from the herd, thus incrasing farmer incomes. The Project
would also include a poultry up-grading schieme.
2.        The crossbreeding program would apply only to the settlements (Zone
D) 1/ and to the two sub-districts covered by the first project (Zone A).
These areas contain about 200,000 head out of the District's total of about
450,000 head of cattle. The 250,000 head in the other areas of the District
(Zones B, C and E) are expected to benefit marginally from increased extension
advice and continuing animal health services.
3.        About 25% of the farmers in Zones A and D with 50,000 head of cattle
are expected to participate in the crossbreeding program; the remaining farmers
in these Zones with 150,000 head would gain from the improved standard of
husbandry and the fodder production and pasture improvement programs carried
out by the expanded livestock extension service. WADU's three livestock
sections (Production, Crossbreeding, and Artificial Insemination and health)
would have responsibility for the program and the latter two sections would
be considerably expanded. Additional investments would be made in the Project
farm to allow for the expanded production of Friesian bulls and improved cocks
for the poultry up-grading scheme.
Crossbreedinig and Artificial Insemination Services
4.        The crossbreeding program established under the first project
provided for the construction of 20 bull stations.  The bulls at these stations
are largely Borana, altnough some are Kenya strain Friesians bred from the
WADU farm herd. Early results from the crossbred Friesian heifers are so
encouraging that the Borana bulls will be phased out.
5.        The Project crossbreeding program would be based on the existing
bull stations, wlhich would be provided with further buildings and equipment
at a cost of Eth$3,500 per station. In light of the successful CADU insenination
program, an artificial insemination service would also be introduced. This
1/   Project Zones are described in Annex 1, Table 1 and in Annex 11.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
would reduce the risk of spreading congenital diseases, simplify the operation,
increase its flexibility and reduce costs. Semen would be supplied initially
by the CADU center which would also train 14 WADU inseminators. The budgeted
cost of semen is Eth$3 per ampule, but in order to encourage farmer participa-
tion, farmers would be charged only Eth$2 per successful insemination - equiva-
lent to the current charge for natural service at bull stations. It is
estimated that of the 20,000 cows crossbred annually, 75% would be inseminated
artificially by year ten - the remainder bulling naturally at the bull stations
as at present. An internationally recruited specialist (for three years), 4
high level staff and 27 demonstrators would carry out the program.
Health Services
6.        During the project the Veterinary Service introduced prophylactic
treatment involving routine inoculation against the more common diseases.
(This supplemented the JP-15 Rinderpest eradication scheme established in
Sidamo Province in 1964 which has been successful; the follow up campaign is
also largely completed.) Vaccines are produced in Ethiopia and inoculation
services are undertaken by a WADU team of 11 vaccinators (2 in most sub-
districts) at demonstrator level, led by two Animal Health Assistants (middle
level staff). They would also now be supported by diagnostic staff. The
WADU vaccinators have been trained by CADU counterparts. An Animal Health
Officer supported by an internationally recruited veterinarian would supervise
the Section. Animal Health Assistants are responsible in specific areas for
monitoring animal health, undertaking inoculations through demonstrators,
disease diagnosis and simple treatment. Farmers have generally responded
well to the program and 40% of the cattle in five of seven sub-districts have
been treated. This service would therefore continue under the Project with
greater diagnosic support services and the assistance of additional extension
demonstrators in first project areas.
Poultry Production
7.        The Project would establish a poultry up-grading scheme involving
the rearing (from day-old chicks to 5 months) of 4,000 improved birds annually
at the WADU Project farm. Because of poultry's prospective important contri-
bution to farmers' incomes and nutritional standards and in view of the desir-
ability for a widespread demonstration effect, farmers would receive mature
cocks on preferential terms, i.e. in exchange for their indigenous cocks.
The anticipated benefits from crossbred birds are increased egg production
(25%), greater meat production (0.5 km per bird) and an improved survival
rate. Farmers are not expected to significantly expand their poultry flocks
and thus the slightly increased feed demands could be satisfied from residues
of farmers' increased crop production.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Livestock Extension Service
8.        WADU's livestock extension staff would be expanded from 3 to 13.
They would advise farmers participating in the crossbreeding program on live-
stock husbandry, introduction of napier and rhodes grasses; and on supplemen-
tal feeding with sweet potatos, maize and oilseed cake. Napier grass was selec-
tively introduced under the first project and seeds of both grasses have now
been bulked; farmers' response and quantities produced were encouraging.
Napier grass is being planted in sloping fields on the bunds constructed for
soil conservation as a means of improving their stability and farm produc-
tivity. These improved grasses will be generally available, but only Zone
A and D farmers are budgeted to fertilize fodder crops - 2 ql/ha DAP on both
Napier (or Rhodes) grass and sweet potato - producing incremental yields of
60 tons and 9 tons respectively.
Marketing
9.        Cattle.  The main livestock sold in local markets are cattle, as
sheep, goats and poultry are often sold at the farm. Generally, only mature
and cull beasts are sold, with the main buyers being merchants and butchers.
The existing slaughter house is little utilized, mainly because of the high
slaughter fee of Eth$13/head. In order to improve marketing for both buyers
and sellers and to provide additional health facilities, Government recently
implemented the Second Livestock Development Project (Cr 365-ET) with IDA
support. The project involves establishment of 48 primary markets throughout
the country, including stockroutes, seven terminal markets in major consumption
centers, slaughter houses and hides and skins processing sheds. For the Wolamo
District it provides only for the improvement of the one existing slaughter
house and for the erection of four new ones. It makes no provision for stock-
routes or primary market facilities. The nearest proposed stockroute is 40 km
away and the nearest primary market situated at Wendo, 80 km from Soddu. The
nearest terminal market is at Awassa.
10.       Discounting the target increased offtake from the first project
(5,300 cattle per year), the additional offtake from the Project is estimated
at 14,100 head/year, equivalent to approximately 2,500 tons of meat (Table 1).
To ensure adequate market facilities at fair prices and to encourage this
desired offtake the Project would provide for a primary market in Wolamo to
be owned and operated by the Livestock and Meat Board. The Project also
provides for a holding ground of 1,000 ha to be located on marginal land in
the south of the District; WADU would operate this holding ground and the
primary market would be attached. The proposed site - which has already been
allocated to WADU - has natural boundaries and would require little capital
development.
11.       Milk.  The crossbreeding program is expected to increase annual
milk production by 8 million litres by Year 12, which would reach the local
markets mainly as butter. It is assumed that the increased output could be



ANNEX 7
Page 4
handled in the traditional system. If output exceeds local demand, surpluses
could be disposed through the Dairy Development Agency milk production
improvement scheme. This is at present restricted to the vicinity of Addis
Ababa, but a milk collection and processing center is planned for Shashemene,
100 km from Soddu. The Wolamo Farmers Cooperative Union could organize milk
collection and transport.
12.       Poultry Products.  The increase in eggs and poultry meat would
mainly be used for domestic consumption. Surpluses would be small and could
be absorbed by local markets.
Benefits
13.       It is anticipated that participants in the crossbreeding program
would raise the total net value of their livestock production in Year 12 by
Eth$1.0 million and that the net value of the livestock program for the whole
District would be Eth$1.5 million. The program should result in the productioni
of stronger work oxen; in addition the intensive animal health service is ex--
pected to improve milk production surplus to calf requirements of crossbreds
by 650 liters per lactation, the calving rate from 50% to 70% and adult live-
weight by 60% (150 kg). The increased growth rate would advance maturity by
one year and this together with reduced mortality would increase offtake by
51%. Zebu cattle in Zones A and D would benefit from extension and animal
health service; in five years the calving rate would increase from 50% to 52%,
calf mortality would be reduced from 25% to 18%, and cow mortality from 6%
to 4%. Zebu cattle in Zones B, C and E would benefit from more intensive
animal health services which would reduce calf mortality from 25% to 20% and
cow mortality from 6% to 5% over seven years.
Aarch 12, 1974



ANNEX 7
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Offtake of Cattle Resulting from Project
Numbers Sold Ankually
1/                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2/
Zone        Category-               Type              Without   With-/  Difference
A, D      Crossbreeding           Cull Cows            2,000    3,400       1,400
Heifers 36 month       -      1,900       1,900
(Total cattle        Steers 36 month        -         200        200
population           Steers 48 month        -      5,400       5,400
50,000)             Steers 84 month      2,5oo       -        (2,500)
Sub-Total                               4,500   10,900       6,400
A, D      Zebu Improvement
Cull Cows            5,700    8,200       2,500
(total cattle        Steers 72 month        -       3,900      3,900
population 150,000) Steers 8l month       7,800    5,600      (2,200)
Sub-Total                              13,500   17,700       4,200
B, C, E   Zebu Improvement
Cull Cows           9,500   11,700        2,200
(total cattle        Steers 72 month        -       3,500      3,500
population 250,000) Steers 84 month    13,000   10,800        (2,200)
Sub-Total                              22,500   26,000        3,500
Total Head                                  40,500   54600       141oo
Total Meat (ton)-/                          4,900    7,400        2,500
1/ Participation by farmers refers to Second Project's Livestock Program only.
2/ From Year 12 onward.
3/ Killing out percentage 50%.
March 4, 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WDLAMD AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Program - Sumsasry of Financial Benefits
(Eth ' 000)
Sale of
Livestock
Products                                           Recurrent Costs                                          Net Benefits                             Net 1/
Zone A,D       Zone A,D      Zone B,C,E    Total       Zone A,D        Zone A,D      Zone B,C,E    Total        Zone A,D     Zone A,D    Zone B,C    Total       Project
Crossbred       Zebu          Zebu                      Crossbred       Zebu          Zebu                      Crossbred     Zebu         Zebu                   Benefit
Reference:  Annex 7 Table        4              7               9                        5                7              9                       5              7            9
Without
Development                  595.O         1,792.5      2,987.5                         -                          -                           595.0    1,792.5      2,987.5      5,375-0
Incremental with Development
1              (36eo              -           -            (36.0)         31.0         20.0          -               51.0          (67.0)     (20.0)        -          (87-0)    (69.6)
2               (8.25             -           -             (8,2)        19.7          41.0          -              160.7         (127.9)     (41.0)        -          (168.9)   (135.1)
3               86.8             167.5         -           254.3         191.7         62.0           -             253.7         (104.9)     105.5         -             0.6       0.5
4              209.9             221.2       285.o         716.1         286.4         82.5           -             368.9          (76.5)     138.7        285.0       347.2      277.8
5              l&26.2            360.0       212.5         998,7         417.7         82.0           -             499.7            8.5      278.0        212.5        499-0     399.2
6              492.6             338.0       323.6       1,154.2         571.3         80.0           -             651.3          (78.7)     258.0        323.6        502.9     402.3
7              802.5             326.1       262.4       1,391.0         853.3         80.0           -             933.3          (50.8)     246.1        262.4        457.7     366.2
8            1,370.6             331.1       267.4       1,969.1       1,165.7         80.0           -           1,245.7          204.9      251.1        267.4        723.4     578.7
9            1,709.4             333.6       254.9       2,297.9       1,369.5         80.0           -           1,449.5          339.9      253.6        254.9        848.4     678.7
10            2,037.6             336.1       259.9       2,633.6       1,539.2         80.0           -           1,619.2          498.4      256.1        259.9    1,064.4       811.5
11            2,230.5             336.1        259.9      2,826.5       1,650.0         80.0           -           1,730.0          580.5      256.1        259.9     1,096.5      87742
12            2,631.8             336.1       259.9       3,227.8       1,738.6         80.0                       1,818.6          893.2      256.1        259.9     1,409.2   1,127.4
13            2,728.2             336.1       259.9       3,324.2       1,774.7         80.0           -           1,854.7          953.5      256.1        259.9      1,469.5   1,175.6
14            2,748.2             336.1        259.9      3,344.2        1,791.6        80.0           -           1,871.6          956.6       256.1       259.9      1,472.6   1,178.1
15 onwards    2,816.2             336.1        259.9      3,412.2       1,807.6         80.0           -           1,887.6        1,008.6      256.1        259.9      1,524.6   1,219.7
Zone A,D     Zone A,D        Zone B,C,E   Totil
Crossbred     Zebu            Zebu
Herd Non. throughout                                                   50,000         150,000        250,000    450,000
Stock Units - Without Development                                      25,300          75,900        126,500    227,700
Stock Unit -_ At Full Development                                      41.300          75.oco        125.700    242.0C0
1/  80% of total net benefits                                          *3
April 12, 1974



...........                          -         0 .0               oo o
S ~  ~~~~~ O    I*.S-S                          II                   Ig|0   O                 | - 0> 1 0           00                                      1 .   0 IG 12 1           0    000 !  -B-BgMO
-GSIImo10                0         mrrr- c                    i                                                                        1-                                                                       L0 l o  
_ C1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I g o  C o   m   |~  j;Nm >   S >  1   |- *   s o  |   I  z   o  1-  1 ~  ~ ~-- -  o  ||  lo  |-  |-  |   > S s 8 W  iP  1>  |-Y  Y    W m.I.r   r   =. .
<    t    E  W    g       u   oX   '  m1@   lc W so lc 1o Gc Y 1- 1-- -- ls 1  g s s m 1u- IE I-|- |O S0 1 o 0S--0 I S   | 1              lO.01    YP1g L | I  *D 
_ v.000S  0                         1  ''S                        r                 I0.0                  I0I0.00 |000000  . 0                  i1ii|it  |- || |_     F|- S  S 2 21 i1 - 2 '  2S2                                0
--        _    _         s|                fl .000|              s 2 1   Wo             1. 1' '.          0   1 '   S   O.0 O O O O'O O' '        ' '     Il  1  I g   l C    S  ^         I                                           S                            1
k~          It. .9 .0. .
2121    12I1  I- -1 -- ----                                           .. ..  .. .''is K111II
*0- -- -  --- 1- '                                                                                           o1  1.1                      0             lbI    II      jg t                 I   It  lo                   21            0
J.' 1- '0                   21      -         I.
-                -~~~~                                        ~       ~ . . ...0.0...0. .
0~U                              111212121    I' I'                           lIoo.oI IF.''                                                 1212125112                              L            '
.00    000  '   I1lt.~t;  Fl'''                    1211...0.0.000-00    II'''''                                 111 I0Ioo 0                           k. I'






ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Model I - Zone A. D - Crossbreeding Herd -
Sales
Before
Units             Urit Rate    Development Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10   Year 11   Year 12   Year 13   Year 14   Years 15-20
A. Milk Sales
Na. of Lactatiensa
Zehn Cave With Zeba Calves                                                          100        70        65        65        60         22        ----------
Zebh  Cows With Crosbd Calv                   No. of lact.                          -          30        34        34       42          74         80        73         69         53          32         14        -          -          -          -
Erasebred Cow With Crossbred
Cale- s    W    C                                                                                                           8         16        27         40         62         83        102         120        136        139        139        139
Total Milk Production Net of Calf
ZCbs Cows, Zebu Calves                        Litres            150  WI/lan.    15,000   10,500    9,750    9,750    9,000          3,300         -          -          -          - 0                   _          _          _
Zebh  Cows, Crossbred Calves                                                        -         -         -         -         -          -
Crossbred Coca, Crossbred Calves                                800 It/lan.         -         -         -         -      6,400    12,800    21,600    32,000    49,600    66,400    81,600    96,000   108,800   111,200   111,200   111,200
Value of Milk Prodnction
Milk for Ghee:  Zebh  Cows j/               Eth$                C13/lt            1,950    1,365    1,268    1,268    1,170            429        -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -
Crossbred Cows-                                 11it               -         -         -         -        704      1,408      2,376      3,520      5,456      7,304      8,976    10,560    11,968    12,232    12,232          12,232
Milk for Whey:  Zeb  Cows                                        6/lt            (900)   ( 630)   ( 585)   ( 585)   (540)           (198)        -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -
Crossbred Cows                3 " C6/lt                            -                             -      (384)        768)   (1.96)   (1.920)   (2.976)   (3,984)   (4,896)   (5,760)   (6.528)   (6,672)   (6.672)   (6,672)
Total Value Milk Sales                                                         1,950    1,360    1,268       1 268    1 874                  2 8378     3520       5,428      7 304      8.976   100560        191.68    12,232 12.232           ,232
Incremental Value Milk Sales                                                     -          582;   ( 682)    1 682)   (  76)   (  113)        426      1.570      3,506      5_354      7026       86        10.01       10282    10.282    10,292
B. Livestock Sales
Zebu Herd
Cell Covs         (230 kgs)                 Eth$             Eth$7s/head          1,500    1,725    1,500    1,650    1,875          1,875    1,500       1,575      1,950      2,700      2,550      1,875
Call Heifere      (48 Months)                   "                 90/head           -         -         -         -         -        1,800        900        -          810        -          -          -
It-eer  80 Months (250 hge)                                   "100/heed              -        -         -         -         -          -          -        1,505      1,100        -          ---                                          --
Steers 72  "      (250 kgs)                             '         100/hesd                              600    1,900    1,000          600      1,400      1,900        600        800        900                         -                -          -
Steers 84  "      (250 kgs)                                       100/head        2,500    2,500    2,500    2,000          900      1,700      2,100        600        -           -          -
Crossbred Herd
Cull Cows          (400 kgs)                Eth$(            Eth$180/head           -         -         -         -         -          -          -        1,080      2,340      3,240      4,500      5,220      5,940       6,120      6,120      6,120
Breeding Heifers (36 Mostho)                                  '  240/head           _         _         _                                                                                                         3,360      4,080      4,080       4,560
Steere 36 Month. (400 kgs)                                        200/head                                                                                                                                           -          -          200        400
Steer.  48   "    (4ZO kl.)                                   '  200/head                                                 2.400      2A,00      2.600      3,800      7,400      9,000      9,400    10.600    11,000    10.800    10.800    10,800
Total Livestock Sales                    Eth$                                    _       4.225    4,600    5 550    61_75         8,375      8.500    10,455    14,200    15,740    17,350    17.695    20,300    21,000    21,200    21,880
Icresssotal Livestock Sales              Eth$                                              222       600    1,550    2,175       4_375       4_500      6.455    10.200    11,740         ,3        ,695    16.30    17,000    12               17.880
C. Sarnaty
Total Milk & Livestock Sales                                                      5_950    5_590    5_868   6_818    8 049    12,212    10.6    13,975    19,656    23_044                  26325                   2.22                3          34.112
lncreoentsl Milk & Livestock Sales                                                   -       ( 360)   ( 82)        868    2.099      4,262      4.926      9,25    13,706    17.09          20.37      22.305    2           27.28      27,482     28162
1/ 17, model of 50,000 head herd.
2/  Milk f-ron sb  cows calcolated at Efh$ 0.13/1 and from orossbred cows at Eth$ 0.11/1 on basis of botterfat content.  Botter price assamed to be Eth$ 3.0/kg.
3/  Val-e of whey included in -es 1omic analysis bat not included in financial analysis (family consumption).
April 12, 1974






-       1-- 0I..   I AI      YeA   3 ICDLIA L AA1AACA I 88     Yr43017 Y-0Yr9                                 erl        L.    t Y-1              er  3 Y.   1                   52
1.   _C ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     1      '4C, HIOC                    . IgcIC              I
FAr OC2AICAC,ACA    Ac   OCCIS         SAD~~~~~~e.  457. '-          172       176          173          173        177        162        134        123        117           Al         55          1$         -           -               
ICACCIDIA  CoDe  1,420          -         -           -            -           11         38         54         81        lID         ASS         AlA         243         275         SAl         781         ADA~~~3,6  4  8,  In  68  2~~  13  M
I.   ACDC'OCJCDCC,C,   OeoeCS-dCoee              4002SeL               C         -        -           -                                              11                     25 C        33         D           4O          5D          56          56          58
OCtet AA,iCe AqASA. .11 Co..                                      171~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l_  [DI  17 3  .27 3    l2 193      2 .         ol        12A         A67         CAl         3D         314         329         330         337         337.22
ICCeCDADAAOMAACCI05iD   All UCOC              -         -       .....J2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  444  AA       IA         04         44         DC         AlA         116         158         033 4551                02126       SAC15  i6i 16i  _16
IA. I- -e,Ae1 Feed DCC-1AACeA
AcOAIACDCCDA  D.2000             ''         -        -         -            -               3         5          4          A         16          DI          IA          14          88          77          27          17~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12   2  ''4'2  1"  27''I
YACACA Dreee                             3~~~~~         ~        ~~~ ~~~~~~.7564  '                                        4       10           4A   121             A-         432'    274             AlA         ADD         DS          AID         AA
AACAAPDDCSDe.        A.Y41A                 '         -        -          -            -              A         Al         A         15          58          39          41          Dl         Dl          55          15          55~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lo 9  1  3152  5  5
A        -DScee& -cAC    S-l4  ADAISC            soAI  IglO          Yo.        AD      2              42          3A          43         37         Al        -          -           --4                                                            
CIC fte t`-Aee2-A           "CA'                                                AV       1             A           40          45         46         I          7         -           -           -           -           --                      --
ACID Aleece 4Ae1AeDc   96-40   "  I,1AD   "            ''       lB       DA~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  78       DA         54         13         A4        40           D         -           -           -                                      
Aebo Seecee         ID-Il~~6  "2                 loll                   ''        3       38            588           3,         38         32        3          11           8          I           11         -           -                 
2. s,AC-c                  A IA                         3,300'                           35      35            35           21          lA         AD        D9          A         -           -           -           -           ----
4 Delf-e                9-4-l                        1,AAD  "                "                               06           40         ID         II        213        133        141         064         CAA         188         168         iD714                   171
4 Aellcee  '24-05    "                  4~~~~~~        ~       ~~~~,970   '                                   9- I      53         33         DO       131         181         l95         AlA         D32         23         AIN          AO          838
-ee    ret              3-48    'A,0 "                                                                                  ...           22       3           29        44          84         141         438         I2l         AI          425         110         123
51-1 I.cc 8A,,I. CII 013-  sA-Ak                                                       318      Ale          036           357         34         AD        41A       461         4DD         102         523         321         323         523n      Y129 
-5Ce .ecI   AICAC  e,aA'- .11 DAIA  DACCI                                               -        -           C              39         30          48       LOG       144         l49         884         193         lA3         205         SAY          CIi        2IA
IT. jsACCCAI,1Ae  A,2,e.
A.ple ICc1 ..                                          4lD 1CI                                   -            DI7        CAD          123        197       411        5A2         620         674         CAl         83          84I         842         861         IA
-eel ACCCOSlI                                                                  C        -       -            18           40           31         49        ADD       1ID         153         lI          AD          AA          Al2CI                   CA3A
80.1cc                                                    0DA                            -            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T  3  5      4         A          Ce          3D          22          14          26          2D          27          17
3Dpe11cCIeDe                      C         -       -           -            -              0          3         4          1          16          CD          C2         14          26          27          21          11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:  o  4  , 
AC3DC Colee                                                                    "         -       -             4,        216           14         Aol       505        757         654      C,31%       0,275       C,353       1.4171      1,447       1,472       C,2A7
CeI AAACCC                                                                                       -            I            40           37        3D        213        183        184         CAD         243         258         283         C68         AD           l
ADAe                                                   114D/8AD               Ale        -       -           -            -             14       IDIo       510     I,12        SI  2,        0DD       iDeA        3.310 3,36D 3.            100 3:.181      3      ,:1 1811
Settlocl                                              ICO                                                 lID          323-         314        624                             ,2 1,31   .34 lAA 7,I  12,A1      A1A6        0.534       CR94        1,4          .6
AICC.C. ./                                         12111C                  C1423                                      32D          48         74      1436       2222 214      JAw       762        3 IDA       3,328       312         8458           %4       29
I-  .....  3I_               ~                ~                34         I~o            -        761 ~~4I~                      2,31~~       _~691      1,~5        3,32        3,41        3,45        3,536 4       _314
AT-1-                                                                                                       321          841        15_13      24412      5,346     5,393       7,20        9.3o3      1.2549    12L314221.27/.4.29224               _12-           3
Da...eelA,C ... IAOc    AcID Ded.1."                                                    C                25D4'        414          442          409        5372       321       14          177         444          71          26         -           -           --
1-0-4 ~~~~~~~~~~~d                                                           26-030 13    Cl        2.20      12.47      2 lID      2 720       3,.42       3.21A       4. 20      4_,516      428 A        493A0      .401         A5ADD
Ie1oC.cDeI-   bDI-t/                                                                                      6           3 8           40           43         83         14         I          0           6            8           A          6           68          68e         68
- 4.1.                                     C         .       -             2           20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  40  231  O4D  lC  210     2ID         III         21         21D         Il          Ill         28
TCCI IceC-o   -CeC                                                                               I            68           -IOD                   DAD       224        A4l         208         113         268         272         200        218         272         278
Y2CCCOOe-leCeellCl  DAb  ICily   91.5,12.           "        -        -            13          23           43         54         07        021         ill        SAD         214         CY2         345         241 I  16   24A 2 4 22323251Z47 ~ 8  n 
T-C1DCCD1DDy  2DICCDCI                                                            C    .        3C0          Al           c..706 .                        2 . _67    3.L4D.      32837      1382        41243       51L86       Y1143       5,455       3496        53520
-.201  22  0202-51D8C18501  11188 III                                                                       3811      I.1917       1 9_17       0_84       4_111    5.123        8 3313    11I OD         _3 l5    1_3,34      _6,52       ID_305      114D        01M 91      I= 0
______                                                                                                              13=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(2V1-l2
8.  0409 16C81245CC240 1801280 3/                                '         -    (1241       (1.202       (1.040'       1 1251        05     1 IA?)    I SASS       2 7  342I      3  329   4 184_954 835          0 9329      9  335      9 586    99286
11 43 CA 32 222 IcAAIC CCII.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                                  lW                          _M        -M Q=                    Q
2/  CII DCCCCOCA CA 2o2IA  ID IDDdYIACSCIAC-CCc    AieCA OwC                                     9,. AI802ee  IcIAC  CCADDDCC   o
Del 0le 50SC,.2d  YDc2CCyCCIC,-11   DecC  AD.1  SID   bedI,  CDC
-b   -j--. .21$3.61
1/  1~ .obedIecd 1,8C   CA 92 CADCCCDICCIDCCICcI1S72
ACil 122, 1474






ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Model 2 - Zone A. D - Zebu Herd
Herd Proiection
Stock   Before
Units Development Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10   Year 11   Years 12-20
Herd Composition (Beginning Year)
Cows                                         0.60      600        600        600        600         590        577        558         555        555        555        555         555        555
Calves                                        -      ( 300)    (300)    ( 300)    C 300)    ( 307)    ( 300)    ( 290)    ( 289)    ( 289)    C 289)    ( 289)    ( 289)    (289)
Heifers  9-24 Months                         0.25      112        112         112        112        115        118        120         119        118        118         118        118        118
Steers   9-24  "                             0.25      113        113         113        113        116        118        120         119        119        119         119        119        119
Heifers  24-36 "                             0.40      105        105         105        105        106        109         113        115        114        113         113        113        113
Steers   24-36 "                             0.40      106        106         106        106        107        110        113         115        114        114         114        114        114
Heifers  36-48 "                             0.50       99          99         99         99        100        101         105        108        110         109        108        108         108
Steers   36-48 "                             0.50      100        100         100        100        101        102        106         108        110        109         109        109        109
Steers   48-60 "                             0.60       94         94          94         94         95         96          98        102        104        106         105        105        105
Steers   60-72 "                             0.60       88         88          88         88         89         90          92         94         98        100         102        101        101
Steers   72-84 "                             0.60       83         83          83         83         81         79          75         65         58         57          57         58         58
Total Number                                   1.      1,5    0         5        1.500      1,500       15         1,500      1,500      1.500       1.0   1   5,       500            1,500
Total Stock Units                                 759        759        759        759         756        753        750        749         749        750        750         750        750
Mortalitv (During Year)
Cows                                                    36          36         36         30         30          23         22         22         22          22         22          22         22
Calves                                                  75          75         75         69         71          60         52         52         52          52         52          52         52
Heifers  9-24 Months                                      7          7          7          6           6          5          5          5           5          5          5           5          5
Steers   9-24  "                                          7          7          7          6          6           5          5          5           5          5          5           5          5
Heifers  24-36 "                                          6          6          6          5           5          4          5          5           5          5          5           5          5
Steers   24-36 "                                         6           6          6          5          5           4          5          5           5          5          5           5          5
Heifers  36-48 "                                          6          6          6          5           5          4          4          4           4          4          4           4          4
Steers   36-48 "                                         6           6          6          5          5           4          4          4          4           4          4           4          4
Steers   48-60 "                                         6           6          6          5          5           4          4          4           4          4          4           4          4
Steers   60-72"                                          5          5           5          4          4           4          4          4          4           4          4           4          4
Steers   72-84"                                          5           5          5          4          4           3          3          3           2          2          2           2          2
Total Mortality                                   165        165        165        144         146        120        113        113         112        112         112        112        112
Sales (End Year)
Culls Cows                                              57         57          57         74         78          93         82         82          84         83         82          82         82
Steers  72 Months                                       -           -          -           3           6         11         23         32          37         39         40          39         39
Steers  84"                                             78          78         78         79         77          76         72         62          56         55         55          56         56
Total Sales                                            135         135        135        156        161         180        177        176         177        177        177         177        177
Technical Coefficients
Calving Rate %                                          50         50          50         50         52          52         52         52          52         52         52          52         52
Calf Mortality h                                        25          25         25         23          23         20         18          18         18         18          18         18         18
Cow & Follower Mortality %                                6          6          6          5           5          4          4           4          4          4           4          4           4
Cow Culling %                                            9.5         9.5        9.5       12.3       13.2        16.1       14.7       14.8        15.1       15.0        14.8       14.8       14.8
Working Oxen %                                           17.7       17.7       17.7        17.7       17.7       17.7       17.7        17.7       17.4        17.3       17.6        17.6       17.6
1/  17. tiodel of 150,000 head herd (remainder of Zone A, D area cattle).                                                                                                                                     L
March 11, 1974                                                                                                                                                                                                _






ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Model 2 - Zone A. D - Zebu Herd l/
Sales, Operatinn Costs and Incremental Income
Be fore
Development  Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4     Year 5      Year 6      Year 7      Year 8      Year 9      Year 10    Years 11-20
Sales
Milk Sales
No. of Lactations                                30D         300         300         300        307         300         290         289         289         289        289         289
Milk Net of Calf (150 It/lact)   Lt.          45,000     45,000      45,000      45,000      46,050     45,000      43,500      43,350      43,350      43,350      43,350      43,350
Milk Sales for Ghee C13/lt         $           5,850      5,850       5,850       5,850       5,987      5,850       5,655       5,636       5,636       5,636       5,636       5,636
for Whey 26/lt 21      $         ( 2,700)     2,700)   ( 2,700)   ( 2,700)   ( 2,763)   ( 2,700)   ( 2,610)   ( 2,601)   ( 2,601)   ( 2,601)   ( 2,601)    ( 2,601)
Total Milk Sales                $          5,850       5,850       5.850       5,850       5,987      5,850       5,655       5,636       5.636       5,636        636        5,636
Incremental Milk Sales         $              -          -           -           -           137         -      (   195)   (   214)   (   214)   (   214)   (   214)   (   214)
Livestock Sales
Cull Cows 230 Kgs @ $75/head                   4,275       4,275      4,275       5,550       5,850       6,975       6,150      6,150       6,300       6,225       6,150       6,150
Steers 72 Months @ $100/head                     -           -           -          300         600       1,100       2,300      3,200       3,700       3,900       4,000       3,900
Steers 84 Months @ $100/head                   7,800       7.800      7,800       7,900      7.700        7.600       7,200      6           5,600       5,500       5,500       5,600
Total Livestock Sales           $          12,075     12,075      12.075      13,750      14.150      15.675     15,650      15.550        15,600    15,625      15,650      15.650
Incremental Livestock Sales   $               -           -          -         1,675       2,075      3,600       3,575       3,475       3,525       3,550       3,575       3,575
Total Sales                                17,925     117.925                 19.600                  21.525                 21.186      21,236      21,261      21,286      21,286
Incremental Sales               $             -           -          -         1,675       2,212      3,600       3,380       3,261       3,311       3,336       3,361       3,361
Operating Costs
Veterinary Costg @ $1/Cow
plus $1/calf                                               200 3/      410        620         825         820         800         Soo         Soo         800         800         800
Total Income                               17,925      17 ,725    178980                                          20.505      20,386             20 ,436    20, 4661 2486
Net Incremental Income                       _        (   200)   (   410)      1,055       1,387       2.780       2.580       2.461      2,511       2,536       2,561       2.561
1/  I% model of 150,000 head herd.                                                       
2/  Included in economic analysis but not included in financial analysis.                                                                                                                          |
3/ Assumed at $0.25/head in Year 1, $0.50/head in Year 2 and $0.75/head in Year 3.
4/ Addition to standard innoculations, mainly worming and dipping.
March 11, 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Model 3 - Zone B, C and E
Herd Projection
Before
Development   Year I        Year 2      Year 3      Year 4       Year 5      Year 6       Year 7      Yenr 8      Year 9       Year 10    Year 11    Years 12-23
Herd Composition (Beginning Year)
Cows                                       1,000        1,000       1,000       1,000        1,000         982          977         964          964         964          964         964          964
Calves                                      (500)       (500)        ( 500)      (500)       (500)        (491)       (489)        ( 482)      (482)       ( 482)       (482)       (482)        (482)
Heifers  9-24 Months                          187         187          187         187         187          192         189         195          193          193         193         193          193
Steers   9-24  "                              188         188          188         188         188          193         189         196          193          193         193          193         193
Heifers  24-36 "                              176         176          176         176          176         178         182          180         185          183         183          183         183
Steers   24-36 "                              177         177          177         177          177         179         183          180         186          183         183          183         183
Heifers  36-48 "                              165         165          165         165          165         167         169          173         171          176         174          174         174
Steers   36-48 "                              166         166          166         166          166         168         170          174         171          177         174          174         174
Steers   48-60 "                              156         156          156         156          156         158         160          162         165          162         168          165         165
Steers   60-72 "                              147         147          147         147          147         148         150          152         154          157         154          160         157
Steers   72-84 "                              138         138          138         138          138         135         131          124         118          112         114          111         114
Total Number                          2.500        2,500       20500       02,00        2,500       .500         2,500       2,500        2 500       2.5_00       2-50        2,500        2,500
Total Stock Units                     1,265       1.265        1.265       1           1_265        1,260       1.261        1.256       1.256        1.256       1.257        1,257       1.257
Mortality (During Year)
Cows                                           60          60           60          60           50          49          49           48          48           48          48           48          48
Calves                                        125          125         125         125          115         113           98          96           96          96           96          96          96
Heifers  9-24 Months                           11           11          11          11            9          10            9          10           10          10          10           10           10
Steers   9-24  "                               11          11           11          11            9          10            9          10          10           10          10           10          10
Heifers  24-36 "                               11           11          11           11           9           9            9           9            9           9            9           9            9
Steers   24-36 "                               11           11          11          11            9           9            9           9           9            9            9           9            9
Heifers  36-48 "                               10           10          10           10           8            8           8           9            9           9            9           9            9
Steers   36-48 "                               10           10          10          10            8           8            8           9            9           9            9           9            9
Steers   48-60 "                                9            9           9            9           8           8            8           8            8           8            8           8            8
Steers   60-72 "                                9            9           9            9           7           7            8           8            8           8            8           8            8
Steers   72-84 "                                8            8           8            8           7           7            7           6            6           6            6           6            6
Total Mortality                          275         275         275          275         239          238         222         222          222         222          222         222          222
Sales (End Year)
Cull Cows                                      95           95          95           95         125         115          125         116          114         119          117         117          117
Steers   72 Months                            -            -           -           -              5          10           18          26           34          35           35          38           35
Steers   84  "                                130          130         130         130          131         128          124         118          112         106          108         105          108
Total Sales                              225         225          225         225         261          253         267          260         260          260         260          260         260
Technical Coefficients
Calving Rate %                                 50           50          50           50          50                       50          5o           50          50           50          50           50
Calf Mortality X                               25           25          25           25          23           23          20          20           20           20          20           20          30
Cow & Follower Mortality %                       6           6            6           6           5            5           5            5           5            5           5            5           5
Cow Culling eh                                   9.5         9.5         9.5          9.5        12.5         11.7        12.8        12.0         11.8         12.3        12.1         12.1        12
Working Oxen %                                  17.5        17.5         17.5        17.5         17.5        17.5        17.5         17.5        17.5         17.2        17.4         17.4        17.4
1/  1% model of 250,000 head herd (areas not covered by First Project).
March 11, 1974                                                                                                                                                                                                m-



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Model 3 - Zone B, C. and E -
Sales and Incremental Income
Before
Units   Unit Rate   Development Year I   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Year 10  Year 11  Years 12-20
A. Milk Sales
No. of Lactations                    No.        -                500      500       500       500       500       491       489       482       482       482       482       482       482
Quantity of Milk - Net of Calf    Lts.   150 lt/lact.   75,000   75,000   75,000   75,000   75,000   73,650   73,350   72,300   72,300   72,300   72,300   72,300   72,300
Value of Milk for Ghee                $     c13/lt            9,750    9,750      9,750    9,750    9,750    9,575    9,536    9,399    9,399    9,399    9,399    9,399    9,399
for Whey 2/           $      6/lt            (4,500)  (4.500   (4,500)  (4,500)  (4,500)  (4,419)  (4,401)  (4.338)  (4,338)  (4.338)  (4.338)  (4,338)  (4,338)
Total Milk Sales                                         9,750    9,750   _9750    9,750    9 750    9.575    9,536    9,39 399             99    9,399    9,399    9 399    9,399
Incremental Milk Sales                                     -         -         - _                 -     (  175)  )( 214)  (  351)  ( 351)  (  351)   (              351)  (  351)
B. Livestock Sales
Cull Cows         (230 kgs)                  $75/head         7,125    7,125    7,125    7,125    9,375    8,625    9,375    8,700    8,550    8,925    8,775    8,775    8,775
Steers 72 Months (250 kgs)                   $100/head           -         -         -         -        500    1,000    1,800    2,600    3,400    3,500    3,500    3,800    3,500
Steers 84 Months (250 kgs)                   $100/head       13,000   13,000   13,000   13,000   13,100   12,800   12,400   11,800   11,200   10,600   10,800   10,500   10,800
Total Livestock Sales                                             20,125   20,125               22,975   22,425   23,575   23.100   23,50   23,025   23,075   23,075  2307
Incremental Livestock
Sales                                                         -                              _  - 250    2,300    3,450    2,975    3,025    2,900    2,950    2,950    2.,950
C. Total Sales                                                    29 ,875       29,875   29,875                     32.00 IaJ    3.49             3         32_424   323,47               32,0474
Incremental Sales and
Incremental Income                                             -         -         -         -       2,850    2,125    3236    2,624    2.674    2,549    2,599                2,599    2
1/ 1% model of 250,000 head herd.
2/ Value of whey included in economic analysis but not included in financial analysis.
3/ No farm level costs, so incremental sales and incremental income are the same.
March 11, 1974
-G _






ANNEX 8
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee Improvement Program
A. Introduction
1.        Coffee dominates the Ethiopian economy; it contributes about 60%O
of exports, is the source of over half of Government's revenues, and directly
and indirectly provides a livelihood to about a quarter of the population.
Despite its importance, nowever, until recently little effort has been made
to improve either the quantity or quality of the coffee crop. FAO estimates
Ethiopian coffee yields at about 250 kg/ha - half the world average - and this
output is generally of poor quality. Lack, of pruning, weed competition,
incorrect spacing and shade, poor harvesting (stripping rather than selective
picking) and processing all contribute toward these low standards.  There was
little meaningful coffee research in Ethiopia until the late 1960's, and only
marginal progress in attacking these problems has been made thus far. The
IDA supported Coffee Processing Project (Cr 290-ET) provided coffee washing
stations and extension services starting in 1973, but the Project did not
cover Wolamo District. The First Wolamo Project developed recommendations
as to improved yields of smallholder coffee through pruning, stumping1/ and
fertilization. The experimental coffee program would attempt to develop an
extension package which could be carried on initially in Wolamo District, and
ultimately could be extended to all coffee producing areas.
B. The Experimental Coffee Program
2.        The pilot program to be carried out under the Project would involve
1,000 farmers per year, or 5,000 farmers over the Project period. Demonstra-
tors would stump one-seventh of the bushes (about 25 bushes) of participating
farmers. Farmers would also receive extension advice as to retention of suc-
kers, pruning and other cultivation techniques (i.e. weeding, spacing, shade,
mulching and picking) designed to ensure crop quality.  It is anticipated
that farmers would ultimately learn to carry out a multiple-stem pruning
cycle (cutting only one of three stems from same root) whiich has been success-
fully used by smallholders in other East African countries. Should this tech-
nique prove too difficult, a 7-year stumping cycle (all stems from one root
cut at the same time) such as is being investigated at the Jimma Research
Station could be used. In the first project, coffee trials using the multi-
stem pruning technique doubled yields from 300 kg/ha to 600 kg/ha annually.
After stumping, with continued treatment yields would continue to increase
to maximum levels over seven years.
1/   Cutting stems some inches above ground.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
3.        As a result of the stumping program, incomes from the affected
trees would be reduced for a five year period. In order to offset this loss
of income and to attract farmer participation, fertilizer for these trees
would be provided free of charge at a cost of about Eth$5 per farmer over the
program period. In addition a supplemental payment of Eth$10 per farmer
would be made in the year of cutback. The costs of free fertilizer (Eth$5,000)
and the supplementary payment (Eth$79,000) are negligible compared with the
anticipated demonstration effect and economic impact of the program.
C. Benefits
4.        The effect of the program on farmers' income is shown in Table 1.
The cash payment largely offsets reduced sales in the first three years.
From year 6, when the farmer is expected to pay for his fertilizer, his
incremental income from his 25 bushes stumped and fertilized would
be Eth$5.3, rising to Eth$6.6 from year 7 onwards. These figures would apply
to an average of only 0.014 ha or one-seventh of the farmer's coffee area,
but would represent a doubling of his coffee income. It is expected that
this would induce him to improve his entire coffee area, thus achieving an
average incremental income of Eth$46.2 from 0.1 ha of coffee.
5.        The net benefits of the program, are shown in Table 2.  Adjusted
for the economic cost of fertilizer and then discounted, they show an economic
rate of return of 26% 1/. A reduction of value of production by 10% would
reduce the return to 24%, and a reduction by 20% to 22%. If, therefore, a
sound extension package and a widespread demonstration effect results from
this experimental program, it would have a major impact on the Ethiopian
economy. Increased coffee yields could - if exports were not expanded -
lead to a reduction in planted areas, thus allowing other agricultural pro-
duction in these areas.
11   The Table ignores the costs of extension staff and Project overheads;
these would be limited, however, due to the small size of the program
and the fact that the extension staff would operate mainly during the
off-season period and would, therefore, have a low opportunity cost.
March 12, 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee Improvement Program
Basic Data and Assumptions
Without
Units   Development  Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7              Year 8       Year 9       Years 10-20
A. COFFEE PRODUCTION AND RETURNS PER HA
Yield Assumptions
Without Improvement                          kg/ha        300       300        300        300        300        300        300          300          300          300           300
With Improvement                             kg/ha       300         75        150        225        450       500        550           600          600          600          600
Sales
Without Improvement at $1.8/kg               Eth$        540        540        540        540        540        540        540          540          540          540          540
With Improvement at $1.8/kg                              540        135        270        405        810        900        990        1.080        10080        11080        1.080
Incremental Sales/ha                        "                      (L5        (270)      (125)       270        360       450          540           540          540          540
B. COFFEE PRODUCTION AND RETURNS PER
PARTICIPATING FARM WITH 0.10 HA IN ZONF B
Yield/Farm
6/7 Farm Without Projectl/                   kg           25.7       25.7       25.7       25.7       25.7       25.7       25.7         25.7         25.7          25.7         25.7
1/7 Farm With Projectl/                                    4.3        1.1        2.2        3.2        6.4        7.1        7.9          8.6          8.6          8.6           8.6
Gross Revenue/Farm
6/7 Farm Without Project at $1.8/kg          Eth$         46.3       46.3       46.3       46.3       46.3      46.3       46.3          46.3         46.3         46.3         46.3
1/7 Farm With Project at $1.8/kg                           7.7        2.0        4.0        5.8       11.5       12.8       14.2         15.5         15.5         15.5          15.5
Total Sales per Farm                                      54.0       48.3       50.3       52.1       57.8       59.1       60.5         61.8         61.8         61.8          61.8
Plus:  Grant/Farm                                           -        10.0        -                                                        -            -             -            -
Total Farm Income                                         54.0       58.3       50.3       52.1       57.8       59.1       60.5         61.8         61.8         61.8          61.8
Less: Farm Input Costs
Fertilizer/Farm9/2                                 -          -          -          -          -          -          1.2          1.2          1.2          1.2           1.2
Total                                                54.0       58.3       50.3       52.1       57.8       59.1       59.3         60.6         60.6          60.6         60.6
Incremental                                           -          4.3       (3.7)      (.9         3.8        5.1        5.3          6.6          6.6          6.6           6.6
1/ Assuming demonstrator prunes 1/7 of the farmers plot equivalent to 25 bushes out of a total of 175 bushes on 0.1 ha.
21 WADU provides fertilizer free of charge for first 5 years. Farmer pays for fertilizer from Year 6 onwards at credit price (including 15 mark up)
of 1 ql urea plus 1/2 ql phosphate (equivalent DkP price) per ha per year.
March 11, 1974
(D M



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee Program Improvement Costs and Benefits
(1/7 of Coffee Area of 5,000 Farmers)
Before
Units Development Year 1      Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5     Year 6      Year 7      Year 8     Year 9      Year 10   Years 11-20
Physical Data
No. of Participants                        No.       -      1,000       1,000      1,000       1,000      1,000         -           -          -           -           -          -
Cum. No. of Participants                   No.      -      1,000       2,000       3,000      4,000       5,000      5,000       5,000       5,000      5,000       5,000       5,000
Area Pruned & Fertilized in Year!'         ha       -          14.3       14.3        14.3       14.3        14.3        14.3       14.3        14.3        14.3       14.3        14.3
Cum. Area Pruned & Fertilizedl/            ha       -          14.3       28.1        42.9       57.2        71.5        71.5       71.5        71.5       71.5        71.5        71.5
Coffee Production
1st Year Participants                      Kg     4,300    1,100       2,200       3,200      6,400       7,100       7,900      8,600       8,600      8,600       8,600       8,600
2nd Year Participants                      Kg     4,300    4,300       1,100       2,200      3,200       6,400      7,100       7,900       8,600      8,600       8,600       8,600
3rd Year Participants                      Kg     4,300    4,300       4,300       1,100      2,200       3,200      6,400       7,100       7,900      8,600       8,600       8,600
4th Year Participants                      Kg     4,300    4,300       4,300       4,300      1,100       2,200       3,200      6,400       7,100       7,900      8,600       8,600
5th Year Participants                      Kg     4,300    4,300       4,300       4,300      4,300       1,100      2.200       3,200       6,400      7,100       7.900      8.600
Total Production                           Kg    21,500   18,300                  15,100     17.200      20,000      26.800     33.200      38. 600    40,800      42.300      43. 000
Gross Farm Revenue
Total Coffee Sales at $1.8/kg            Eth$    38,700   32,940      29,160      27,180      30,960     36,000      48,240     59,760      69,480      73,400      76,140     77,400
Subsidy                                   "          -     1.OOO      10.000      10,000     10,000      10,000         -          -           -           -
Total Revenue                                    38,700   42,940      39,160      37,180     40,960      46,000     48,240      59,760      69,480      73,400     76,140      77,400
Incremental Revenue                                 -      4,240         460      (1,520)     2,260       7,300       9,540     21,060      30,780      34,700     37,440      38,700
Less: Farm Input Costs
Cost of Fertilizer.- -                                 -          -                      -           -        1,052       2,104       3,156      4,208       5,260       5,260
Net Incremental.Farm Revenue                        -       4,240        460      (1,520)      2,260      7,300       8,488     18,956      27,624      30,492      32,180     33,440
Less: WADU Coffee Program Costs
Fertilizer Inputs2/                                  -      1,052       2,104      3,156       4,208      5,260       4,208       3,156      2,104       1,052         -           -
Subsidy                                             -      10,000     10,000      10,000     10,000      10,000                    -
Total                                                -     1          12,104      13,156      14,208     15,260       4.208       3.156       2,104      1,052
Net Incremental Coffee Program Benefits               -      (6.812    (LI1644    (14,676)   (11.948)    (7.960)        4,280      15,800                 29,440      32,180
Economic Rate of Return  /         26%
with costs increased by 107: 24%
with costs increased by 20X:  22%
1/ Assuming 1/7 of each participant's farm is pruned,
2/ WADU provide fertilizer free of charge for first five years after pruning. Thereafter farmer pays fertilizer cost - economic cost of
Eth$73-7/ha includes 15X WADU mark up.
3/  Without shadow pricing of foreign exchange.
March 11, 1974                                                                                                                                                                                CO



ETHIOPI ^
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost
(Eth$'000)
Year I         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4          Year 5         Total
Farm Inputs                                   1,293            472            746             633          1,538         4,682
Cooperative Promotion                           238            300            300             247            164         1,249
Roads                                         1,032            425            365             288            247         2,357
Rural Water Supply                              547             85             87             100             88           907
Promotion of Rural Artisans                      80             80             80              80             80           400
WADU Services:
Extension & Training                       1,324             759            782          1,116             899         4,880
Marketing Credit & Cooperatives               320            208            162             175            103           968
Livestock                                    611             313            324            401             316         1,965
Works & Services                            1,051            726            752             830            765         4,124
Administration                              1,019            625            659             820            647         3,770
Studies & Research                              365            123              24             25             44            581
Sub-total                                  7,880           4,116          4,281          4,715           4,891        25,883
Contingencies:
Physical @ 5%                                 394            206            214             236            245         1,295
Price @ 12% p.a.                              946            988          1,541           2,263          2,934          8,672
Total                                         9,220          5,310          6,036           7,214          8,070         35,850
April 1, 1974



2                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AmIEx 9
C1   _>>4>n>^                                                                                            T-bl- 2
_,               a' _          a'           a'          a'   a '
0.v        K    D    ,, ' _        a'a D    - H a'                 .a    
Wo~                                          H A q _ O ,   - _    a
O|                 a    r            _        4      a'           '  .n   2         a' s 
a &'
HI       U '   C              C         0    a'                     4          C    C    a'   O _
tO                                        a'   a'                     4               a' ,'    a' fia 8   
I    0,         - n a'           '  a'   C    C ,           ., I       0         a C  1
'O X                            a'   a'   4 I                                          a' gH    C     
a'            C:g
t 4    I                                                                                 I      aI'  4     a'_X 
00
a  a|                    ol a                       a a6 a
a'  a                4H -                                        a1          aa
HI   0            e           v0    a      J        -          a  0    0     I
a,               =         CX                               C a  0  C    1 fi0i 0  



ANNEX 10
ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$'000)
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter End                          Disbursements 1/
1974/75                                           Quarterly         Cumulative
September
December
March                                                 700                700
June                                                  700              1,400
1975/76
September                                             750             2,150
December                                              750             2,900
March                                                 450              3,350
June                                                  450             3,800
1976/77
September                                             350             4,150
December                                              350             4,500
March                                                 400             4,900
June                                                  400             5,300
1977/78
September                                             500             5,800
December                                              500             6,300
March                                                 500             6,800
June                                                  500             7,300
1978/79
September                                             600             7,900
December                                              600             8,500
March                                                 600             9,100
June                                                  600             9,700
1979/80
September                                             600            10,300
December                                              600            10,900
March                                                 600            11,500
June                                                  500            12,000
1/  Project Completion expected        June 30, 1979, closing date
June 30, 1980.
April 11, 1974






ANNEX 11
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model Budgets
1.        Five zones have been defined within the Wolamo District in order to
simulate typical farm model budgets without and with development:
Typical Farm
Zone      Designation                Altitude Range (m)          Size (ha)
A     First Project highland         1,700-2,100                  1.3
B     Second Project Ilighland       1,700-2,100                  1.0
C     Second Project highland       Above 2,100                   0.8
D     First Project Settlements    1,300-1,700                    5.0
E     Second Project Lowland         1,300-1,700                  2.5
All highland farmers participating in first project were designated Zone A,
although there are no geographical or ecological differences between Zones A
and B. Zone D represents the settlements established under the first project.
2.        The effect of the Project on individual farms - for uhich a family
size of 4.7 persons has been assumed - is demonstrated in the following ways:
(a) Table 1 compares the benefit-cost ratio of fertilizer and
improved seed for one hectare of different crops;
(b) Table 2 shows the benefit-cost ratio of crop and livestock
improvements (if any) for the zonal farm models for owner-
operators and tenants. All incremental production, whether
sold or consumed by the farm family, has been valued and
farm overhead costs which could not be attributed to different
crops were included;
(c) Tables 3 through 7 show five zonal farm nodel budgets detailed for
crop and livestock production. Here an increase in home-
consumption has been assumed.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
3.        Yields, prices and expected changes in cropping patterns are in line
with those used on calculations of cost and returns of the crop development
program (Annex 1). Farmers in Zone A would improve their crop production
only a little beyond those levels achieved under the first project, while
settlers in Zone D - due to an intensive extension service - would experience
further improved crop production. All settlers and 25% of farmers in Zone A
are expected to participate in the crossbreeding program, the benefits of which
are shown in the model budgets. Livestock in other zones would benefit from
animal health services and improvement of poultry breeding stock. -
4.        Under present conditions, most farms barely feed the families.
Family labor is frequently hired out for additional food or to pay for services
of work oxen leased from other farmer. About half of all farmers are tenants,
who pay their rent partly with a 25% share of their grains, along with cash
and some work on landlords fields (about two days a week).
5.        Livestock is fed on fallow land and crop residues.  For improved
livestock, purchase of concentrates such as neug cake and planting of fertilized
napier grass have been assumed.
March 12, 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PRO0ZTCT-
Benefit:  Cost Ratio of Fertilizer, Improved Seeds 04 Pesticides per ha
Haricot   Field    Irish
Crops                       Maize   Teff   Wheat   Barley   Sorghum   Cotton   Chillies   Beans        Peas    Potatoes   Ginger   Coffee
Output 
Yield without            ql/ha     8       3.5     9        9        5         1         2          5         6       50           5        3
Yield with               ql/ha    22      10.0   18        18       13         6         5         10        12      100          10        6
Price                    Eth$/ql  14     20       16       12       12        60        65         30        15        5          60      180
Value of incremental
Production               Eth$/ha 196    130      144      108       96      300        195        150        90      250         300      540
Costs
Seed (incremental)       Eth$/ha   1.6    1.7      8.0      -        2.0       5.0       -         10.0      12.0     20.0         -        -
Fertilizer
DAP                    ql/ha     1.0    1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0       1.0         0./      0.51/    2.0         1.0      0.5
Eth$/ha  60.2   60.2   60.2      60.2      60.2     60.2       60.2       25.0_/   25.0/  120.4        60.2     30.1
Urea                   ql/ha     0.5                       -                      -          -              -        -           -        1.0
Eth%/ha  25.5    -       --                                     -          - _  _  _                              51.0
Pesticides               Eth$/ha   6.6    3.0      -                 -        82.7      39.6        39.6      -
Sub-total inputs           Eth$/ha  93.9   64.9    68.2      60.2     62.2    147.9       99.8        74.6     37.0    140.4        60.2     81.1
Interest on 75% of inputs
12% p.a.                   Eth$/ha   8.8    6.3      7.6      6.5      5.9      14.6       9.2         8.3      4.1     21.6        10 8      7.3
Total incremental direct
costs
Eth$/ha. 102.7  71.2   75.8       66.7     68.1    162.5      109         82.9     41.1    162.0         71.0     88.4
Gross Margin               Eth$/ha  93.3   58.8   68.2       41.3     27.9    137.5       86.0        67.1     48.9     88.0       229.0    451.6
Benefit:  Cost Ratio                 1.9:1  1.8;1   1.9:1    1.6:1    1.4:1    1.8:1       1.8:1       1.8:1    2.2:1    1,5:1       4.2:1    6.1:1
L/ Phosphate only.
April 12, 19741



ETHIOPIA
uECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Benefit-Coat Ratio - Individual Farmers2/
ZONE A                            ZONE B                    ZONE C                       ZONE D                         ZONE E
Value of                       Value of                     Value of Valueof                                                        Of
eQ Incr 2se2                 Increased                        increasen                       Increased
Incremental Prod.pnt &hare-  Inc-.-tal Prod- Rent Share- Incremental PrOdRent Share- Incremental Prod.   Rent Share  Incremental Prod-  Rent Share -
ql.   Eb qlEh             qltql   ElW  EthS                ql-  Bth-f   -ql  Et-hl   -ql   g--t-hTp        lEt q-1/ql          Et        _ql  E_th
Incremental Output
Crops
Maize                               i.4   19.6  0.4   5.6      6.5   91.0      1.7    23.8       -    -        -    -      10.3   144.2                     23.2    324.8    7.8  109.2
Sorghum                              -     -    -       -     (0.4)   (4.8)   (0.1)   (1.2)      -    -       -    -       (7.5)   (90.0)                   (1.3)   (15.6)   (0.4)   (4.8)
Teff                                0.9  18.0 0.2    4.o       2.0   40.0      0.5   10.0        -    -        -    -       1.0    20.0                      o.6     12.0     0.1      1.2
Wheat                                            : -    -                                       2.3  36,8   o.6   9.6        -       _
Barley                                                     -      -                              D.1   1 2
Haricot Beans                                                          -        _               0 _    -       _            1.2    36.0                      0.7     21.0
Field Peas                           -     -                                    -                 .6   9.0                   -       -                        -       _         _      _
Cotton                               -     -    -       --    -                                                             8.5    510.0                     2.0   120.0
Chillies                             -        -    -                                             -          -               1.3    84.5                      0.4     26.0 o            _
Irish Potatoes                       -     -    _               -      -        _       -       2.0  10.0            -      -
Ginger                               -     -    -       _      0.2   12.0       _                      -      _    -        1.5     9o.,
Sub-Total Increased Rent SMare             _    _      9.6     _ -              -     32.6       _      -        - -_    9-6  _      _         __6
Sub-Total Crops                           37.6   -    28.0      -   138.2       -    105.6      _    57.0      -  47.4      _      794.7                             488.2
Livestock
Oxen sales                                30.0                                                                                      30.0
Butter                                    42.0                                                                                     111.0
Skim milk                                 20.8                                                                                      53.0
Goat sBles                                30.0                                                                                      30.0                             30.0
egg                                      16.2                         1.5                             1.5                          27.5                               7.5
Rens                                       1.0                          -                               -                            1.0                              1.0
Young poultry                             21.P                         1.5                             1.5                          36.0                               6.o
Steers and leifers                                     _40.0
Sub-Total                                161.0       161.0             3.0             3.0                          3,0            328.5                             44.3
Total Incremental Snles                  198.6       189.0            141.2           108.6           60.0         50.4          1.123.2
D ,nmtal Costs
cropsY                                     9.5                        66.1                            33.4                          71.4                            234.2
Livestock                                 45.o                         5.0                            (3.0)                         70.0              _.0
Total Incrsental Costs                    54.5        54.5             71.1            71.1           30,4         30.4            141.4
srermntal Ibt Benefits                    144.1       134.5            70.1            37.5           29.6         20.0             981.8                            293.5           187,9
Benefit Cost Ratio  Owner Occuisieri       3.6:1                       2.0:1                           2.0:1                                                         2.2:1
Benefit Cost Ratio Tenants                             3.5:1                            1.S:1           -           1.7:1          7.9:1                                             1.8:1
1/  Incrmstsl fi-ures ,aen frmrndividnlb  rM 2delbudseta - Atmx 1    Tables 3 - 7
V. /cludisg value of work for landlord.
Settlmnts:  tenants poyinS full rent as cah devl_opmet chre, which is  =sffected by icraeing production .
Cj Crop costs including credit eharges on 757, of inputs.                                                                                                                                    X  fi
April i2, 1974                                                                                                                                                                              ! J



hiOEIA
ROLtMo 0G0ICUL0RAL DRvRIROMeaT PROJ5CT
Model Psem Modst:t  Zone A
Mith First Froject                                                                                       With Second Proect
__ __                                                                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Coet6/ -
Title.).  Ruse             2'            'oe.ThoeS/   looti/       O Rrhled5/ hldse tock   5dt                         TotolS' HVAe 2/            2'            Oslolu 2/        off OkettsZd2 / Ctlo-oto-k 6i  t
Fred     Co9n3pttot  RHet   soo l             vp of So-l-   of   p"ts  Costs    I-om        I                           Prod.  Co..r ptRoo   Rent   RwisTIV    of  nroploe    mpoott    Costs       Iondo-       Inoe
3     Nect-lrss    g _/   q               91      91        (Fth)   ~ M(th$)         (MtM)        (4$)       (Etb($    9      ootarso    g         o             gl      g          4tMh$)      (4th$)   (Eth$)    (nt.3$         (4th$)
CORP
Nni= (2neghtoa                  38    0.50        10. 0       3.5        2.5      4.0      56.            53.4                                          40     0.52      u.4         5.5         R.9      3 0       42,0         55.6
ft                              13   2 0.30 2        .24      054        o.6      .14      28.0           220.                                                                                   o 8     1. 8       36.          25.1
200,002.o/                   22    .2:g        07.5      27.5                                                                                       sO)    2to        01.5       23.53.                           o.
Fnset                            4    O.G5         7 5        4 5                3.0        o.6                                                          4     0.05       7.5        4.5                 3.0         o,6
Voerootlos                       4.   0.05         0.3        0 3                                                                                        4     0.05       0.3        0.3
Tots). l A00WA CroRs                   1.15                                                                                                              -     01.0
-ooble COORRIOR                 20   0R25           -                                                                                                   20     0.25
A.-tAM  C-eD AOre               69    0 90          -                                                                                                  73      0.95
Coffoe                           8    010          0.4        -           -       0.45     72,0            .                                                    .10       0.4        -                    0.4       72.0        808
TOtAl Cooppoeg Ores             77    1.00                                                                                                              811   .05
Greeti,g Ad H-coe!              73    0.30
WMod                                                                                                                                         2l/   0 2S
Total FPso                     100    1.30                                                356,6          85.           25.0         45.5     92.1    loo    1-30                                                   150.6         39.5       30C0      120.5'       159.6
Modiel lonoestool Rodents - Tone 0 
Witoot toIwwYtios                                                                                    With !MMOVMOiOOs
7e.Va of                                                                          Oejno of
Adons           RoN2                AotA          Wlo,                         Ao-i1            Hos_                  AO-IOI         R
RKbert       Prodootio.       CooDsooti          sales            (2th$)       N-boer,       Frodt-tion       CStola000oo           Sl              (mtn$)
CAFE ORY
Iota  0           -                - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.12        05.0              1             -                -                   .s2)/       .4.o
Con                  0          20 lt2/           13230t            0 1J              0o             o         56o lt  )        532lt                 22 i               C
HMif-r               I            0.3 12/         0.30               -              -                1          025              0 25-
St pr                I            0 3CEO/         0.30               -              -                1         0: 5  LI         0o                      -              -
Soat/sh e           I                                                                              I L'
rid/lq"b 1i       /               2               I                  1                                          541g 5.0  4 '     1                     3             45.0
Rote 12/             0          160 egos         1 tot 40 eRos      100 egot        5.0              5           00              21h. 1 e              35  gg.        17,5
Coneok ls            1                                                                               I
yong poortry         -            reared         4 (2 0000)          1              1.5              -          20 re-rtd       10(3 e eP)             10             15.0
Total Sle-                                                                         555                                                                               183.5
Loss OnroTooro                                                                    10R 10-                                                                            55.0  /
h t  _1-qU                                                                                                                                                            28 
j   0011. nroppd Mona  - eooot potat   ftseoesli.
J. crop prire  to ndoont (0000.odtr  reitst sh sooswn irrote i s esnot ceo iAditooos  oro2o tnsRntt!bls
;2/  AOMrego besRy etos no 4.0; enrobe sveet Roesin sod by prodirto Red to retlo plus
Aloroone of 1 ql ooroal Fdr renoetred nosf  'ee7  orni ctS.
4!    oot 257. geaI  hi   tn  r-s  psberk-e,  se  5/-
J OYhrleMd Coste                     Ytb$
loot:      8,.0
Tfo        3 9
Tools       3 0
Rents2 eto.    3.1
Osterlsls. tronolSort
so 73.0     0  i2.
ettl    30.0
2' Appli-  wely to 25T of f--orrs iOjepotr, O4i  -rorirOrer i. roosOrroOtde.
J  C=hi-edtrs e  partly afoll.,, redo-d by  q-tlootd  -s  of Fretilieor, increes.  to J.rf-1t tlV         aot-nd-otIoo off itOoR-o1r fo-d-r -rse  -rp.
J/ sale  Olsor (st doso) Pion 3 yosrt affter stottelOop ollnoOo
2  50       ig rate, L-ntMtio  00   It0co/n; sci  solo .  s bOtter (40%) ot rtb$3/le.  Skikod nilk  -ooo-ood loeMotllW.
! hoireo.oo en.s.e.s ontW  urfettei t For ne fotrsoso        t R   all-ono  ror  tortahity.
1'o  1oso ol r kid. o-noally, oslo pre no of on  Ytb$15
LI80 eo   ppr oho per poor, 20 -et, 5 rI-rod, o-  eold; silo prlo, eggs Eth$1.0/20, bird Yth$1.50 .ah
45/ Slo. 000 oo (t $200) pee 5 poare ifort r ortAlity ofllosoAetno
5/   703 o         tlotos rnt. 60 t!l-rtt1w,  ilk  sales oloter.
10                hot P.r P- V.  50 pto. 00 n--ed, 10 sol.d
2/   MOtnisnil fodder, roe tseAt..ton.  otseriosr_ nonitry toerocoe.t  ted.
April 16, 1974






WO01dO AGOICIIITOA  OSAS11T61 UNI2T
Model FPa Ekdget: Zone 0
(Average Flan Sloe 1.0 tevlaret)
Witho>ut Stuco etioos                                                                                                                       With l=aovstiots
Total   Rose                             Gatos of     CoKgf    O-evhea-2/ Livestock   Net                            Total   Ho=e                              Value of        of      Overhead   Li-estoc-k   lt
Prod.            A cCeo -ptloc2 Oent/ Surplot  Sorpico  Ilpoto    loots     Soccer       Toce                        loud. RCotcoptSoe-/ Peon_   Srplos  Sorplot             Topot    Coats         one         Iccoos
59Ei ctares                 0q                             (4t$) 4    (0ts$)    (11_$)         (itt$)       (Yto$)   5      ce%tars    q           ql           q        4       (Etho$  L'    (Eth$)    (Ethf)        (Eth$1      (Eth$)
Milac                      28      0.28      2.3        1.8          0.5                            1.2                                         40      0.40       8.8        2.9          2.2      3.7      51.8          42.8
Torkgh-                     7      0.07      0.4        0.3          0.1      -                     0.2                                         _-                                       -               -                  -
Toff                        5      0.05      0.2        0.02                   -                    0.3                                         22      0.22       2.0        o.6          0.5      1.1      22.0          16.7
Soeet Poto                (12)     0.10    13.2        13.2           -                                                                        (12)!'  0.12       13.2       13.2           -
be-t                        4      0.04      6.o        6 0           -        -                                                                  4     G.l4       6.o                      -
VOgetatl-e                  5      0.05      0.3        0.3           -       -                                                                  5      0.05       03         0.3
tooter                      I          0.01  0.1         _            -     0.1        6.0          0.6                                          3      0.G3       0.03        -            -       0.3      18.0           3.9
Total to-oat Iropt               0.62
Iotble Croppiog                  0.12
At-s1 Crop Are             50      o.5G
Coffe-                     10      0.10      0.3        _             -     0.3       54.0                                                      10      0.10       0.3        -             _      0.3       54.0            -
Totat Croppiog Area              o.6G                                                                                                                 o.84
..ractog/tooe Wood         40      o.4o                                                                                                                 0. 16
Total Farm              100      1.0                                                60.0          2.3        20.0        23.5        61.2    100      1.00                                                145.8         63.4        25.0        19.3        76.7 -1
MYdel to--sok Modest.  Zout 8
Witbooc I-cacotio                                                                                                    Wooith otauataun
volop                                                                                         Vatot
.-,.kI              Et                    Annpl -Inl                                           A-ul                 Homt                 ALt t            of SKI..
NEb-r             rduto              Con-tption            Sse-              (Eth$)            NtPb.r.          Prodption            Cot.-pption          ftlS             (Eth$)
CATE OEY
oyen                          1.0               -                    -                   0.1              10.0                1.0              -                    -                    0.1            10.0
lou  9./                      1.5             150 St milk          144 It sAio          6 kg bttter       18.0                1.5            154 It alt           i4  St gAIn           6 Ag loter    18.0
H      1if 0, I/              0.251           0.3                  0.3 3                                   -                  0.25)          0.3                  0.3                     -
Ste-e 17                         .o25)                                                                                        0.25)
nate/Sheep                    0.3                                                                                             0.3
lid/Lusb  Li/                                   I                    I                                     -                      13/           1                    1                                    -
Oc-t I2/                      1.5             120 eggs             I heo 50 eggs        50 ego            20.5                t5 5/           150 eggu            Ih .eo d  eggs        65 eRgg          3.3
otk_erelo                     1.0                                                                                             1.0
Yo-   Polltr                   -              5 .reared            3( rep)              2                 3.0                  -              I6reard             4(rep)                2               3.0
TotKo  SKote                                                                                        13.5                                                                                           34.3
tutu lootasos10.0                                                                                                                                                       15.0    /
Ott Incoun                                                                                               03.5                                                                                          19.3
-/ tootle oro.p.. p  oea - cutot potatoe-  Ittorneuls .
C'  Crop prlices nd coot (i-leditlg  -deiSt chatge oLpo-ta) os slohn in lodiidool crop  -oiniog eblet- A..e.  11, Iobl  1.
tveeag-   fn=ilr ui- of 4.7 ldboos,o opts  setpolalou    dbyputodtn-  fed to livtson-k.
St/ 0en 2510 of g-uio.
/    srtoh.d costs (Ethl)                       hunt                       8.o
Too                        3.9
looks                      2.0
Ittutaeril, transpoen
etc.          4.o
Tot.1  "withtot"      20.0  TOtl "sith"        25.0
6/ AIser iaor.sgsd loan nooosuploo=.
7/  lop=eGgrsoporuV,~r.I    fallty r-d_ed  b     toed t-eof  o-ltil--. o-o-ea.e I  t -ertil aty            . otOtoOJ  Anjutooti foddur .,uacrop.
B/  s el, onutooxv'nl. 10'tG   .v    ars ococe  oorota:.'otaloooce .
9/  -toI calving rate, I-aLLi-o 830 IL/-..; ik1.  oulc bo        t--  tol'  1t Et4$3/On.  Ski-tae  ottt  -oovoov$oouettotO>l.
10/  Ootfors and Ste-rs -ol  -ufifi-et for  -ouloceon after  lloncv  for torOalitY.
S/i  tols  or .kd  tnnutlly. tale .  rane oRf o   Eth$15.
12/   o0    utOC leo oer peer. 90 set, 5 rered, o-e sold.  Onle price, eggs Eth$1.0/20, bird 'th$1.50  -sa1
13/  10   eg   perhe per.,er, 20  et,6 re6 eed, 2oold,
Ak/Addtiotel'fcdourto ot oentte for reueo            ovreage, plu  poult V 1 ot Ventrate fbed.
Aprii la,  l974






WOIAM  A3RTCUIU0AL DUEVIA0BSPME  UNTM
ModelY arc Rodgen Zone C
(Avere,3e Fiire Sloe 0.8 brotorro)
Withot I-oovsti-s                                                                                                       With lonoostoos
Total   ls                              VeIss            of    U-ertedV  Livetook   Net                            Total   UsrUssf                                                 Userlea     i-eto-k   Net
Prod.   Cooptto_/ P.tL a          Plos  of   I        Co 7PPte    Coda     7oor          oms           N        Psod   4   CODU ptloo/ l          Hot!  2plU6o    f SU 2 se  ICoytt   Costs   UTe t         n-e
Iteotarse         q ~~~~~~~         (011$)       (ltl~Im'$)   (lXTo   (nIb)       (11$)   $       Usotare.    oI        '                     t        (1th9)1      (Uth$)    (ctt$)    (Eth$(        (tt,$)
CUOP
wheat                     18       U 14     1.3       1.0         0U3        -                      2.2                                      26      0.20      3.6         1.0         0.9      -       27.2         18 4
Barley                    i8     0U14       1 3        U           U.3                              1,7                                      10      0.08       ' 4       1.1         0.3                            1 -  6.3
Poter  'Field Peas)       12     0P10    0U6          U.6           -        -                      0 9                                      12      0 10      1.2        0.7                 0U5       7.5           5 0
Beset                      S      0.07    10.5       12.5           -        -                                                                8      0U07    10.5         10.5                  -         -             _
hoet Ptt-l/              (15)      .122   13.2       13.2                   -                        -                                      (15)    0t1,    13.2         13.2                                          -
rIish Potsts               5        . 04    2 0       1U0                 1U          5.0          4s0                                        5       .0 04    4.0         1.5                 2.5      12.5         10.5
tegetablee                 6      005       0. 3      0.3                    -                       -                                        6      0t05      0. 3        U0            -     -
Total Astoal Cop                U o.66                                                                                                             o.66
Dpoble Cro-ppng/         (15)     U,12                                                                                                      (15)     0.12
A-o-al Crop Area                  0 54                                                                                                               0.54
coffee                     4      0U03      0. 1         _                0.1        18.0                                                     4      0U03      U.                              0.1      18.0
Total Cropping Area    71      0U57                                                                                                        71      0.57
tPasioodttote1         29      0.23                                                                                                      29       0.23
Total  are              oU      0S80                                               23.0           8.3      I4o        19.5       09.7    100      0.80                                              65.2          40.2      16.0        23.3        32.3
H dl L-t-ksC  BYadgtl  r2-  C
Withees  1esrtir-                                                                                            WitE Io-ti-s
Ua1oe of                                                                                    Val_e of
Aoooai              Port                 Asousi.           4Alse mh-Ua                                          Poin A  Nr           A10
B-b-ere          Yrod.stloa          CtoeouttbO.          Bales            ($th4)          husbere          Prodosti_s           C-onzptl_-           Bales            (0th$)
CATtUNBY
l-so                         1.0               _                   -                   0.1k'          10 0               1 0               -                    -                  o.1k/           10.0
Cee V                        1Io             100 1t etiu         96 It skim           4 kg boter    12d0                 1.0             100 It mIla         96 It eai           4 kg btt-er    12.0
etTer                        0 2!  05)        0.3                  U.3                  -              -                 0.25)            0.3                0U3                     -
Ste e                        0c25)                                                                                       0.25)
Pid/Lff S                     - 0                                   130
Pete -                       1.5             12  eggs            I lea 50 egge        50 eggs          2.5               1.5             150                 1 h-er65 emg.        65 -gge           3.3
Cokerels                     I.0
Usoeg Ppoiitry                               5 reared              3 (I reP)           2               3jO                               6 -adm              4 (I reP)             2                3 0
Total Sales                                                                                       *27.5                                                                                        28.3
Lees Pornass                                                                                           8.o                                                                                         5.1
Bet Unt_r                                                                                             19.5                                                                                         23.3
I/  Bauble -ropped ere - e                .ect peata  after nersi
V   Crop pbos e -d assaettoon in atdiodidsl rep noenig table., Aner  It, Table 1.
3/  -vers8e falp enes of 4.7 parcos, eorpioe esee  pooto cad bY po-do-te fed to iioestolk.
R -an 25% r2p gr-lne.
5/  overhead  ooea entmaaes:
(01h$)    Reot              5.0
T=c               2.4
To.le             2.0
Barbs             i.6
Bateriale &
transport         3 .U         5.0
T_t,l  Wttbrut '   t    'SarI" oE.0
6/  Sale  one op (at $iop) per 8 yeoro after nontalty alioveooe.
T/  50% -U loi,o  rte, 1astttioo 200 It/ow; milk cai1- at bottnr (40%) at fth$3/kg.  Ski=ed aIlk  -ooeopnd dOneetioly.
2/  veifere asd etreos ooly sOffloio-t for replaemeot  fter ai_sinoos for mortalIty
9/  TP2 la-bt  or kide atoYlb, s-at prite Of one 0$15.
10/ 80 eggs per he.  per yesr-2,  .et, 5 6-ured,      :.eIsd; sale prioe, eggs Pth$l.0/20, bird oth$1.50 .a-h
/  l00 egge per ten per   ar, 20UF tet, 6 reared, 2 told.
12 ntaly p__itoy  -ooeatst. f.eed,
April 12, 1974



EHI1OPIA
ECfOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model Form Bud3etos Zn S
(Avrae ed    te    I.0le ars
With First Project                                                                                     With Second Project
Coet                                                                                                                 Cost
Total    Home                            Vlue of       of       Overhead 4/ Livestock   Net                         Total  Horn                                Value of    of        Veorhoad 4/Li-etook   Net
Prrd.S/   Co..s.pttos !/8ent 3/Surplus  Surplus         Vopoto   Costs       TcoFe        Otoom                     Prod.    C=      p     2/ Rent3!   Opuo  Surplue    loputs    Costo    Income               Ioc...e
6     Heotarso   c             ql.          g       ql     (Eth$)       (Eth$)   (Eth    Oth$)        (Eth$) (Eth)   ,%    Declares   ql          q1          01           ol    (Eth$)       (Eth$)   (Eth$)      (Eth$)       (Eth$)
Crop
Maice                       24     1.20      30.0      2.0             _    28.o      392.0        128.3                                        23       1.15     40.3    f.o              -       32.3      452.2       122.9
Sorghum                    10      2.50      7.5       2.5             -      5.0      6o.o         35.6                                                                    -      -                -          -           -
TCff                       20      1.02       9.0      3.0             -      6.o     120.0         76.2                                        20       1.00     10.0    3.0              -        7.0     141.0        76.2
Cotton                     10      0.50       4.5       -              -      4.5     270.0         88.7                                        20       1.00     13.0      -                      13.0     70o.o        177.5
Chillies                    6      0.30       1.5      0.2             -      1.3      84.5         33.5                                         7      0.35       2.8    0.3             -         2.5     162.5        39.0
Pulses (Huri-oto)           4      0.20       1.2      0.4             -      o.8      24.o         20.2                                         4       0.20      2.4    1.0                       i 1.4     42.o       20.2
Vegetable-                  4      0.20       1.0      1.0                              -            - _4                                                0.20      1.0    1.0                        -         -
lioger                      2      0.10       0.5       -              -      0.5      32.0         13.1                                         4      0.20       2.0      -                      2.0      120.0        26.2
Total A-ruAI Crops      80      4.00                                                                                                         82      4.10
Grseiog, House      )
sad Mood ~     20     1.00                                                                                                         18 -      .90
..d Wood V        )
TotAl Eslr      t      100      5.0        -      _            _                   980.5        395.6     70.0       6      0       5.51,    100                - = _ 1,696,7  462.0 7                                         5.0 247, 0           1,406.7
Hodel Liesetotk Bod.et ZDoor
Without Innoestio.s                                                                                          With 1arneatio-s
Value    lValue
dm00.1            Doas                  Aruoal             of DAles  j             HIrHual            Homqe                 Hmnscal             of Hales
Nombers  Produotion         Cccaumpptioo          Hales              (Rth$t)    tEustero    Produotiun          Coos2uatior          Sales                 (Ethc$)
Cetegory
Ores                            1.0      -                   -                    0. I4               10.0        1.0           -                                     oli II/4o.o
Coins                           2'0     200 It  ilk-        192 It skia           8kg hule            24:0        2.0U      1,120 It  Oilh     1,075 It skim        145 kg hul           135.0
Heifere                         1 0     0.3                 0.3                    -                   -          1.0          0.7                0.5                0.1                   e0.0
Steers                         1:0       .32/               0.3                    -                   -          1.0          0.7                0.5                0.1                   20.0
G-ote/She;y                     1.0      -                   _                     -                   _          2.0           -                 -                    _                     -
Kid/ Lr V                        -      2                   1                     1                   15.0         - 13/        -                 1                  3                     45.0
Here..                          5.0     40o egge            2 hens 100 eggs       250 eros            10.5       10.0        1,000 egge         3 hebe 400 eggs    500 eggs                25.0
Ceck-erel                       1.0       -     f           -                      -                   -          1.0           -                  -                  -                       _
YVeng Poultry                    -      13 reasid           7 (3 reps)           6                     9.0         -            40 reared       12 (6 repel          28                    42.0
Total Hales                                                                                        70.5                                                                                327.0
less Puroh see                                                                                  10.0                                                                                 80.o 14/
Net saie                                                                                              6.                                                                                  2147.0
/ Crop prices and cost (imotediag credit charge on iaprte) as cheer it iadividoal crop co-ting tables - AmanL 11, Teble 1.
2/ Average fatily sise of 4.7 pers..s....  plos sweet potato sod by prodoote fed to lieseteok.
3/ Developant charge see 4/.
h/  fetis,ste of overhe-d costs:  (Eth$) D .v lopFat thchse                                40.0
Tao                              7.0
Tools                            6.o
Smoke,  tc                       5.0
Materials. tr.c.port, et,.    12.0                      17.0
Total "Withoot"                 70.0    Tota1 "With"  750
5/ Cmhbised sre  portly filca, reduoed by contiu-ed use of f-rtili-or, i-crese. it  frtility  nd introduction of improved fodder gross crop.
6i/ Sete, ore or (at $100) pit 8 years ftet  mortality attoesoor
7/ 50% ratleig rote, Iactetise 200 It/cw; *ilk sates I s butt-r (40%) at Eth$ 3/kg.  Skied milk temeceed doestioesly.
/ geiftters ad staste qnly sofficieot for replsoemeot oft-r oiseerce for  ortelity.
9/ Too babe or kide annully, s.Ir prior of era Eth3 15.
10/  000 eggs per en per ypor, so set, t5 rested, 7 sold.
IV/  tate of one or  p-r 5 years *fter sorttlity elloesmos.
12/  70% c-ting rcte, 800 1/ locrerier.
i3/ 100 egga/her/year.
14/ Additioal fodder to coepereste for reduced screege, pIus pouItcy c_ncectrats feed.
Vi0 16. 1974



SECOND WOLAMO  AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model Form Bodoet Zone
(Aver-ge Form Sine 2.5 Reterses)
Without Innocntio.s                                                                                    With Esescation y
CostA!                                                                                                          CostsE
Total   Home                          Value of       of      Overhensd  Livesto-k   Net                        T0tO121 HEce                           Value of       of      Overhsad   Livesto-k/ Net
Prod. 2/ Cont ooptiou2/ REstY/ Surplus  ourplusj/   Iqputs   Costs       Iooce        Come                      Prod.  Cooo-uptioo2/ R-ctJ Sorplos  Sorplos!    Inputs   Costs           Ioone        Income
H Rectares   01            1           ql      ql    (Eth$)         (Eth$)   (Etth$     (oth$)       (thi)   *%    Neot-ree   q1           El l        1       ol        ti)        (Ett)   (othC        (Rth$)      'oth$(
Cr0p
Maize                     40     1.00       e.o       2.8        2.5     2.7      37.8         4.2                                       50       1.25     31.2     6.5          10.3     14.4    2o0.6        133.6
Sorghum                   10     0.25       1.3       0.9        oh4      -         -          0.0                                        -        -                             -         -- -                  -
Teff                       8      0.20      0.7       0.2        0.2     0.3       6.0         1.0                                         5      0.13      1.3     0.7           0.3      0.3       6.o         9.3
PSlace (H-ricott)          6     O.t4       0.7       0.2         -      0.5      15.0         1.3                                        6       0.14      1.4     0.2                    1.2      36.o        14.1
Chillie.                   5     0.13       0.3       0.1         _      0.2      13.0         0.3                                        6       0.14      0.7     0.1                    0.6      39.0        15.6
Sweet Potatoes            (4)   0.10      11.0       11.0         _       _        -            _                                         (4)     0.10     11.0    11.0                     -        -            -
Vogethbles                 4    0.10        0.5       0.5                                                                                  4      0.10      0.0     0.5                     _        -            -
CotGoM                    12     0.30       0.3       -           -      0.3      18.0        5.0                                        15       0.39      2.3                            2.3     138.0        69.2
Tota1 A_.ual Coops            2.22                                                                                                             2.25
Louble Cropping        _      0.10                                                                                                    _        0.10
An-ual Crop Arh           85    2.L2                                                                                                     86       2.15
15     0.38                                                                                                    1       0.35
aod Wood4        C                                                                                                           - _  _-                                           
Total PFrn               100    2.50       _          -           _        -      09.0        1.6        00.0      47.0       94.2       lt       2 50      .        _                             420.6       241L8               0L=         210.8
Mlodol Litssnock Badast Zo. E
Withost InaovstiqF-                                                                                             Winh Inth vati
Value                                                     oF@Vaue
Annual               Rpe                  Annual           of Sales                       ApAual               Ro                    A-ouel           of Sales
Nunhers      Pcsduotion          Conauoptiun             Sales             (Ethi)        Rumbhr6       Produotion           Connoaption              Sales            Cttil
Soon                            1.0         -                   -                   0.iZV                  10.0        1.0             -                  -                      0.1                 10.0
Con                             2'0        200 It cilk         192 It kim           0. kg ott              24.0        2.0           200 It milk         192 It ski.             8 kg bhtter         24.o
Netier  /10                                0.25                0.25                   -                     -          1.0            0.25               0.25                     -                   -
4teer                           1.0        0.25                0.25                  -                      -          1.0           0.25                0.25
SatSoe10                    .          -                                                                          2    .0                  -                                -                   -
lid/SeAeb                       10-        2                   1                    1                      15.0         -             4                  2                       2                   30.0
H..-                            3.0        240 eEgo            I hen 6O eggs        140 eggs                7.0        4.di.31        400 eggS           2 hoes 100 eggs         250 eggs            12.5
Cookerelle                      1.0          -                  -                    -                      .          1.0                      -                                 -                   -
You-g Ponltry                    -          i ceared           6 (2 coPl)           4                       6.0         -             15 reared          8 (3 reps)              7                   10.5
Total tales                                                                                             62.0                                                                                      87.0
Lees Pro-he                                                                                          15.0                                                                                     20.0 W2/
Net In-oc47.                                                                                                                                                                                        67,0
1/ Double neopped see  - sonct paois sei   -oerel-i.
2/ crs  peinee  end neat (isciudieg credit nharge On iaputs) us shown in individual crop nosting tsbles - A.-  11, Thble 1.
3/ hesesge fYCily siin af 4.7 p-e.ses, s-epls sweat pot-to and iy peodunts fad to 1i.es.nsk.
J/ Rent 25S at grains.
JOv-oehead -ost estimate:  (Eth9$  ROut                                10.0
Tao                              5 .0
Tools                            4.0
Swoki, sin.                      3.5
Materials, transport, eo.        7.5                    12.3
Total "vithqut"               30.0   Total 'with"    35 
/ Conbisod ses partly f-llov, redu..d by contirued use of fsetitlier, Itore-ss  in fortility sod inerodootiom of impro-ed fodder grass erop.
7/  4ile, 000  0 (at $100) per b years after  -ortolity alloue.
8/  50*% ulviug r-te,  o-ttotbon 200 it/on ;    alk utia- o btter (409) ot Eth$3/kg.,  Skiod milk .uhon-d dAueoti-cally.
9/  Heifers sFd st-cro only sufficient fCr erpl-oenent after tlLousce for nortality
Is/ Too luabs or kids nonoelly, s-le price of 000 Eth$15.
/l 100 eggs per hen per year, so set, 15 reared, 7 sold.
/ Addition-l fodder to  rcepen-sto for reducAnod rsag9, plus poultry -ounent-te feed.
April 16, 1974






ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government's Cash Flow from Project
(Eth$'ooo)
---------------------- Cash Inflow -----------------------             --------------------- -  Cash Outflow ----------------______
From Taxes            From AIDB                                              IDA Debt Service               Project
Year     From IDA    & Duties 1/   Interest          Principal    Total          Project Cost    Interest    Principal   Road Maintenance    Total            Net Outflow
1         6,390           1,141          82             -         7,613              8,842           48           _                  -            8,890           1,277
2         3,680             342         115             -         4,137              5,158           76           _                  49           5,283           1,146
3         4,180             346         172             -          4,698             5,773          107           -                  92           5,972           1,274
4         5,000             615         225             -          5,840             6,972           144          -                 128           7,244           1,404
5         5,590             350        363              -         6,303              7,435          186           -                 157           7,778           1,475
6            -              298         363            501         1,162             2,179          186           -                 182           2,547           1,385
7            -              417         327            501         1,245             2,187          186           -                 182           2,555           1,310
8            -              244         290            501         1,035             1,723          186           -                 182           2,091            1,o56
9            -              232         254            501           987             1,635          186           -                 182           2,003           1,016
10           -              398         218            501         1,117             2,005          186           -                 182           2,373           1,256
11           -              295         182            501           978             1,802          186          248                182           2,418            1,440
12          -               295         145            501           941             1,802          184          248                182           2,416            1,475
13          _               295         109            501           905             1,802          182          248                182           2,414            1,509
14          _               295          73            501           869             1,802          181          248                182           2,413            1,544
15          -               295          36            501           832             1,802           179         248                182           2,411            1,579
16           -              295          -              -            295             1,802           177          248               182           2,409            2,114
17           -              295          -              _            295             1,802           175          248               182           2,407            2,112
18           -              295          -              _            295             1,802           173          248               182           2,405            2,110
19           -              295          -              _            295             1,802           171          248               182           2,403            2,108
20           -              295          -              _            295             1,802           170          248               182            2,402           2,107
1/ Does not include income tax on salaries.
V Cumulative net outflow amounts to Eth$ 6.6 million compared to Government's
scheduled contribution to Project Cost of Eth$ 9.3 million.
April 11, 1974                                                                                                                                                                             -






ANNEX 13
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The Project's internal economic return (IER) is based on separate
calculations for the Crop Development, the Soil Conservation, the Livestock
Improvement and the Coffee Improvement Programs. These calculations exclude
costs and benefits of the following Project components:
(a) Inputs for farmers who participated under the first project
(Zones A and D), and the agricultural extension service for the
settlements (Zone D), as these were included in the first
project's economic calculation;
(b) Rural water supplies for settlements and highland farmers,
assistance to rural artisans, the soil conservation study, the
study on land availability for settlement and the study on
improved ranching regimes, as the benefits of these investments
cannot be quantified.
2.        Costs do not include incremental on-farm labor for production and
soil conservation, nor unskilled labor and locally available material for
cooperative buildings and rural water supply, as the amounts are not signifi-
cant and the opportunity costs of these are assumed to be zero. Benefits
include incremental production of the Project irrespective of whether it would
be sold or used to improve farmers' diets. The other assumptions on which the
economic calculations are based are as follows:
Crop Production Program (Annex 1)
3.   Costs include:
(a) Economic cost of fertilizer at cooperative stores (see Annex 1,
Table 6), including the 15% mark-up charged by cooperatives;
cost of seeds, pesticides and other inputs in the amount of 15%
of fertilizer costs; WADU's contribution to cooperatives (difference
between cooperative revenues from 15% mark-up and total operating
costs (Annex 2, Table 3);
(b) 75% of economic cost of road construction (Anmex 3, Table 1)
and road maintenance. 25% of road benefits are estimated to
accrue to traffic unrelated to project activities;



ANNEX 13
Page 2
(c)  Total economic cost of WADU's services (Annex 5), except
land planning section (60% attributed to soil conservation
program, 40% to rural water supply), the settlement section
(see para 1), Livestock Division, and that part of machinery
and vehicle operating maintenance costs (under workshop division)
which were attributed to other Project activities;
(d) Physical contingencies of 5% on all items.
4.        Benefits.  At this time it cannot be determined towhat extent the
recent increases in international grain prices will affect local prices in
Ethiopia. Therefore 1973 projections for local grain prices (farmgate or
cooperations store, Annex 1 Table 5) were used which are considerably lower
than 1974 projections of international prices, together with 1973 fertilize
prices. As of April 1974 the relation of international prices for grains and
fertilizer has not deteriorated. Benefits were attributed to the project one
year after expenditure on farm inputs to account for the lag between purchases
of inputs and sale of produce.
Livestock Improvement Program (Annex 7)
5.   Costs include:
(a)  Economic cost of fertilizer for napier grass (crossbreeding
program in Zones A and D);
(b)  Economic cost of WADU Livestock Division and corresponding
cost of machinery and vehicle operation and maintenance;
(c) Physical contingencies of 5% on all items.
6.        Benefits.  Only 80% of the benefits of the Livestock Improvement
Program were attributed to the Project, while 20% were assumed to be derived
from first project investments. Prices for cattle and milk products at
local markets have been used (Annex 7, Tables 4, 7, and 9). Benefits from
the poultry improvement scheme have been neglected since they are very small.
Soil Conservation _Program (Annex 6)
7.        Costs include 60% of the economic costs of WADU's Land Planning
Section (Annex 5, Table 4) and related vehicle operating and maintenance
costs for the Project period; and 5% physical contingencies on all items.
S.        Benefits.  Production from an unprotected land unit with a 10% to
15%. slope has been estimated to decrease by 5% in Year 20 and by 35% in
Year 50.  Net value of production saved through erosion control per ha has
been estimated at Eth$150/year. Protection against erosion of 21,000 ha has
been estimated for the Project periocl.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
Coffee Improvement Program (Annex 8)
9.        Costs include the economic cost of fertilizer (Annex 1 Table 6).
The cost of WADU staff has not been included because the Project component is
small and demonstrators would work on coffee in the off-season.
10.       Benefits.  Prices at farm gate or market place of Eth$1.8/kg have
been used for ripe and dry cherries which correspond to 1973 international prices.
Shadow Rate of Foreign Exchange
11.       All foreign exchange costs and savings have been valued upwards by
33% (to a rate of Eth$ 2.75 per US$ 1.00) to reflect more accurately the value
of foreign exchange to the economy of Ethiopia. Project's foreign exchange
savings were estimated at 25% of the value of incremental grain production
on the assumption that they would replace imports.
Internal Economic Return (IER)
12.       With these assumptions, the Project's IER would be 17%.  Without
shadow pricing of foreign exchange, it would also be 17%.
Sensitivity Analysis
13.       Projects major risk would be an increase in costs.  The sensitivity
of the Project's IER to changes in costs and in benefits is shown below:
Crop     Livestock   Soil    Coffee    Total
_______       Development  Improve.  Conser. Improve.  Project
------- without shadow pricing --------------   Foreign
of foreign exchange                     exchange
shadow priced
Basic Assumptions        16            21        11       26        17     17
10% increase in costs   12             20       10        24        13     14
20% increase in costs    8             18        9        22        10     11
10% increase in costs
and                    7
10% reduction in benefits              18        9        22         9     10
20% increase in cost
and                    2
10% reduction in benefits              16         Q                  5      7
April 17, 1974






ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Economic Rate of Return
(Eth$'000)
---------------------------------Benefits -----------_------_ --_ _                   ----------co-- -- costs ------------------------------
Soil                                                                                  Soil
Year         Crops         Livestock         Conservation          Coffee         Total           Crops         Livestock          Conservation          Coffee          Total         Net Benefits
1               -             (97)                 -                  4            (93)           4,154             575                  124               11            4,864            (4,957)
2             602            (167)                 -                  1            436            3,376             353                   79               12            3,820            (3,384)
3           1,499             (31)                 16                (2)         1,482            4,129             364                   88               13            4,594            (3,112)
4            3,172            287                  22                 2          3,483             5,016            407                  104                14           5,541            (2,058)
5           4,225             397                  28                 7          4,657            6,093             361                   90               15            6,559            (1,902)
6           7,217             423                  35                10          7,685            5,924             426                   -                  5           6,355             1,330
7           8,742             442                 41                 21          9,246            6,399             360                   -                  5           6,764             2,482
8           9,707             761                 47                 31         10,546             6,640            287                   -                  5           6,932             3,614
9          10,645             961                  54                35         11,695            6,770             266                   -                  5           7,041             4,654
10         11,340           1,189                  63                37         12,629             6,942            313                   -                  5           7,260             5,369
11         11,340           1,337                  72                39         12,788            6,865             292                   -                  5           7,162             5,626
12         11,340           1,664                  82                39         13,125             6,865            287                   -                  5           7,157             5,968
13         11,340           1,727                  91                39         13,197             6,865            286                   -                  5           7,156             6,041
14         11,340           1,729                 101                39         13,209             6,865            283                   -                  5           7,153             6,056
15-20      11,340           1,771                 134                39         13,284             6,865            281                   -                  5           7,151             6,133
Economic Rate of Return = 18%
With shadow pricing foreign exchange - 227,
April 11, 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Program - Economic Rate of Return
(Eth$'000)
-----------------------------------------------Costs    - --------________________________________
Incremental                             Other Farm                  WADU Services                  Road            57% Physical
Year          Crop Benefits           Fertilizer          Inputs             Capital          Recurrent         Maintenance         Contingency        Total         Net Benefits
1                   _                     818               43                1,628              1,467               -                   198           4,154            (4,154)
2                 602                   1,183              105                  282             1,614               31                   161           3,376            (2,774)
3               1,499                   1,727              202                  255              1,690              58                   197           4,129            (2,630)
4               3,172                   2,156               284                 480              1,776              81                   239            5,016           (1,844)
5               4,225                   3,208              479                  210              1,807              99                   290            6,093            (1,868)
6               7,217                   3,730              576                  129              1,092             115                   282           5,924             1,293
7               8,742                   4,065              648                  175              1,091             115                   305           6,399             2,343
8               9,707                   4,297              699                   25              1,188             115                   316            6,640            3,067
9              10,645                   4,472              742                   32              1,087             115                   322            6,770            3,875
10             11,340                   4,494              742                  173              1,087             115                   331            6,942            4,398
11-20          11,340                   4,497              742                   97              1,087             115                   327            6,865            4,475
Economic Rate of Return = 17.5%
April 16., 1974
axt
X. X



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLIAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Livestock Program - Economic Rate of Return
(Eth$ 000)
----------------- Benefits ------------              ---------------------------------------------- Costs ---------------------------------------
Incremental       Incremental                        Fertilizer           A.I. and                WADU Services 5/            5% Physical  Maintenance of
Year        Livestock 1/    Whev Value 2/       Total           for Fodder 3/     Bull Servicec4/       Capital         Recurrent        Contingency    Machinery           Total         Net Benefits
1             (70)               (27)            (97)                 -                  6                 234             276                26               33            575              (672)
2            (135)               (32)           (167)                (8)                 7                  10             293                15               36            353              (520)
3               1                (32)            (31)               (17)                 7                   2             320                16               36            364              (395)
4             278                  9             287                (18)                10                  62             299                18               36            407               (120)
5             399                 (2)            397                (28)                18                   9             310                16               36            361                36
6             402                 21             423                (51)                21                 123             277                20               36            426                 (3)
7             366                 76             442                (74)                25                  62             293                18               36             360                82
8             579                182             761                (88)                27                   9             288                15               36             287              474
9             679                282             961               (100)                27                   2             287                14               36             266              695
10            815                374           1,189               (116)                27                  62             287                17               36             313               876
11            877                460           1,337               (123)                28                  47             287                17               36             292            1,045
12          1,127                537           1,664               (128)                28                  47             287                17               36             287             1,377
13          1,176                551           1,727               (129)                28                  47             287                17               36             286            1,441
14          1,178                551           1,729               (132)                28                  47              287                17              36             283             1,446
15-20       1,220                551           1,771               (134)                28                  47             287                 17              36             281             1,490
Economic Rate of Return = 21.27
i/ Net after deduction of feed, fertllizer and veterinary costs (Annex 7, table 2).
2/ Value of whey used for home consumption.
I/ Adjustment of fertilizer cost used for fodder production from financial to economic cost.
4/ Adjustment of farmers payments for A.I. and bull service which is subsidized to the extent of 50% of cost.
5/ Economic costs of Livestock Division (Annex 5, tables 10, 11 and 12).
March 13, 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Soil Conservation Program - Economic Rate of Return
(Eth$'000)
-C------------------------   -  _  --   Cost
Benefits of                  WADU Services 1/               Maintenance  of        5X Physical
Year       Bunding Program            Capital           Recurrent            Machinery          Contingencies        Total      Net Benefits
1                 _                      48                64                   6                     6               124            (124)
2                 -                       -                69                   6                     4                79             (79)
3                16                       4                74                   6                     4                88             (72)
4                22                      13                 80                  6                      5              104             (B2)
5                28                       -                80                   6                     4                90             (62)
6                35                       -                  -                  -                      -               -               35
7               41                        -                  --                                        -               -               41
8                47                       -                  -                                                         -               47
9                54                       -                  -                  -                      -               -               54
10               63                       -                  -                  -                      -               -               63
11               72                       -                  -                  -                      -               -               72
12               82                       _                  -                  -                      -               -               82
13              91                        -                  -                  -                      -               -               91
14              101                       _                  -                  -                      -               -              101
15-20           134                                          -                  -                      -               -              134
Economic Rate of Return - 11.2%
1/ 607 of capital and recurrent costs of Land Planning Section.
April 11, 1974



ETHIOPIA
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WADU ORGANIZATION
MINISTERIAL COMMITTEE FOR                        MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
COMPREHENSIVE AND MINIMUM                  EXTENSION AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PACKAGE PROJECTS                                DEPARTMENT (EPID)
DIRECTOR WADU                 WOLAMO DISTRICT (AWRAJA)
DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
DEPUTY DIRECTOR                  SUB-DISTRICT (WOREDA)
DEPUTY DICTOR                  D OEVELOPMENT COMMITTEES
PLANNING, EVALUATION |INFORMATION &                                      LEGAL                       INTERNAL
AND BUDGET CONTROL             PUBLIC RELATIONS                                                       AUDIT
UNIT                         UNIT                                 UNIT                         UNIT
|  EXTENSION AND             MARKETING, CREDIT &   | |          LIVESTOCK              r       TRIA4LS                     WORKS &                        FINANCE                       COMMON
L  TRAINING DIV.          LCOOPERATIVE DIVISION                 D  IVISION                     SECTION            L      SERVICES DIV.                    DIVISION                    SERVICES DIV.
AGRICULTURAL   |              MARKETING &                   PRODUCTION                                               INFRASTRUCTURE                                         _       PERSONNEL
EXTENSION SECTION              CREDIT SECTION_                  SECTION                                                   SECTION                                                      SECTION
COOPERATIVE  ARTIFICIAL                                        a                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CENTRAL SERVCE
A  SETTLEMENT                          I A   DEVELOPMENT  |NSEITION T                                                                                                         & PURCHASE
_ ETO  TION                        IONN  SEMTD A                                                                        ETO
SECTIONTSECTON0S
LAND PLANNING                ADMINISTRlATION               ANML HEALTH                                                   SOE
| SHOMEECTIONOMICS           SECT
7   SECTION  |                                                                                                                                              Wodd 8ank-S627~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECIO






37041'
E   T   H   I   0   P  I  A
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WOLAMO FARMING ZONES AND ADNINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES
ZONES. ALTITUDE IN METERS:
ri7I7     C        2100-3000
E77      A&B       1700-2100
r==]X  D& E        1300-1700                                                                AREKA
17      -      Below 1300- Rough Grazing                                                                         D A M  O  T
Wolamo Awraja Boundary                                               B O L O  S S O
...........     Woreda Boundaries                                 \
* Woredo Towns
Contours in Meters                     /                                                           BODITI
%~~~~~~
Rivers                                  /                                   ... ....-.......
1/ K O Y S H C                           . /   (  55. DAMlOT    / ,----  D   A   M   O   T
6ELE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                                      1700
S E BELEJ X .. | MOUNDA;N f ~~~~BADESA 
6"49Y                                                                                  -DO                               i                                      6449!
Do' r loouxar,cs sh.,on o/ bUS[ OOia/ boos.1e,/           ;   ,         g g  >  7< yS               O    D    O;X                            .
bnp/n'c'odorse,ncflt  o*rssepSooct by  She /i// t.o/
AK~~~~~~~i, bS, th,                                                                                                                \\
W,dld B-k -od is -ffll
/f ||  5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~100                                                      15 0    20   < 1 Ab  B -
1100  HUMBO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ J
7                                         5UBA                       i'TABALA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~






370 41'
E T H I O P I A
SECOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WOLAMO AWRAJA FIRST PROJECT DEVELOPMENT AREAS                                                       T HosOOOO
AND EXISTING ROADS                                                                                                          To Soe
9OMBF                                                           B                           B     
<        Devebpment Areas                                                     HEMBICHO              A    cr
Existing I.H.A. Roads                                                                                            Le
Existing Minor Roads                                                        WE                               M                    Bge      /
Existing Tracks                                                          \'../            &\ engera                ?Shento
-    ~   Wolamo Awraja Boundary                                                     Af/o/
*      Woreda Towns                                                          ANCHLCHo |                                                                         a        To \AWbiraAH
o     Villages                                                      Noregabrel I        |    J                             /                     KercTheche
-  Rivers                                             tE/S SETTLEAe1V7 1  I     amine  Ac                Wabda-o      /        '-Sdoe 
GURUAIO     ~Koyel
_   >          {f  /  GBilEUMO    /        Kaf __         b~~~~~    ~~ADESA  
6049'                                                                           K,dAe                                                                                                            6049'
The bou-daries shAwn ahn ha map dl nBG
imply 'ndorsmot o  eptace r th                                                                  elosenyo
W-rldr  ank aidtis afBodaot
,0m.,<             /                 0       5       1^\   {/0    15 \ 20   25~ ~ (S~       ~ 30S E R t0  Seyo
1i_~~~ iii tH                                                       I               p
KILOMETERS                                               To           Ab~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 M EEV4
G3lca4AesMah






E    T    H         I    O     P    I    A                                                                         37041'
SKOND WOLAMO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                    To Hosfm
WOLAMO AWRAJA PROPOSED MARKET CENTERS,                                                                                                                          To Shashemene
ROADS AND TRACKS
/)// xL~~~ Hembca                       SECTOR T            
-          Existing HA. Roads                                                                                                                                         W
Existing Minor Roads
SECTOR I1
Exisling Tracks                                                                                                            ncho                     Buge
--     Proposed New or Upgraded Minor Roads                                                                                Der,efa         jSher*o       Gochino       0 Sore
Proposed Tracks
-          Wolamo Awrajo Boundary                                                                                                                                                                    Aw AsaWeybo  ,  0Cierow  |wasI
*      Woreda Towns                                                                                                                           A
|           ~~~Noregobrel                    Gurumo                / - BODITI                 s   eceh              lk 
*      Existing Market Centers (End I" Project)                                                                                                                         e che j'ok,
*      Proposed Market Center                                                                   Zonmine    //\               W odor        /        0 Doo*C   /
A      Co-op Union Market                                                         BELE                   /                                    Ko
A      Existing Non Wadu Co-ops                                                                           Gnn                                                   BADESA
i ~~~~Om                o         S r/e\  :h  Kokah  Grro,
-6 49Rivers                                                                                                                      DO                                                                  649-
6049' 
Iflphr,Iirr5zr,rsacl r tc.p,ance hv the                  J                                                                        eean\\8d                                                                l
0    X   <           t                         Den.63                                                                    S^                     Hv*t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OSey
II eDSECTOR SEI
4 fE \5fH 1> > A\ f ~~~~~Kido - )    >z 0-                                        YenaP             D.tnk r
| KILOMETERS SECTOR 1E 3741' ml Abec
KILOMETERS                                                            37041'           Ara,'c



