CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 486 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Wolano Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 486 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Wolamo Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
0
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1974, between EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (hereinafter
called the Project) by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(B)   By a development credit agreement dated November 26, 1969,
(hereinafter called the First Credit Agreement) between the Borrower and the
Association, the Association granted to the Borrower a credit in various currencies
equivalent to three million five hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000) to assist
in financing the first phase of an intensive program of agricultural development
to be continued and expanded under the Project to be financed hereunder;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "WADU" means the Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit, a separate
entity within the Extension and Project Implementation Department of its Ministry
of Agriculture of the Borrower established pursuant to the First Credit Agreement;
(b)   "Project Area" means the area comprising the Wolamo Awraja
(District) of the Borrower including such areas as were included in the Project
Area under the First Credit Agreement;


﻿4
(c)   "Revolving Fund" means the fund created pursuant to Section 4.16
of the First Credit Agreement;
(d)   "AIDB" means the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank of
the Borrower;
(e)   "CMC" means an organization established by WADU as a cooperative
but not yet registered as such; and
(f)   "WFCU" means the Wolamo Farmers Cooperative Union, a central
organization of cooperatives in the Project Area.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance w-th the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, .to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods, the carrying out of works or services (other than consultants'
services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December 1 in each year.


﻿5
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June I and December 1 commencing
December 1, 1984, and ending June 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on June 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Extension
and Project Implementation Department of its Ministry of Agriculture (hereinafter
EPID-WADU), and with the assistance, inter alia, of -'her appropriate agencies
and instrumentalities of the Borrower with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural, engineering and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause WADU to provide adequate and
appropriate staff, and such consultancy services as may be necessary to support
it, for the purpose of the timely carrying out of the studies included in Part (4)
of the Project. The Borrower shall consult with the Association to determine the
staffing and consultancy services requirements of the said studies, and the terms
of reference therefor.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure or to cause the insurance
of, or to make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the reports, plans, specifications,


﻿6
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. (a) Under the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association, and contained in a subsidiary loan
agreement acceptable to the Association, the Borrower shall relend one million
eight hundred thousand dollars ($1,800,000) or such other sum as the Association
shall from time to time agree to AIDB for the purpose of financing the provision
of seasonal credits under Parts (1) and (2) of the Project for farm inputs in the
Project Area. AIDB shall provide the said seasonal credits through cooperatives
and WADU, under terms and conditions approved by the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the subsidiary loan
agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
subsidiary loan agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause WADU or AIDB, as the case may
be, to relend to cooperatives and CMC's in the Project Area all funds necessary
for the acquisition of cooperative stores and offices and the equipment thereof,
constructed or purchased under the Project, on terms and conditions to be approved
by the Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause WADU to adopt project evaluation
procedures acceptable to the Association.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause WADU to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) including without limitation those relating to the Revolving Fund and
CMC's for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
*        the accounts and financial statements of WADU and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause WFCU and all of the (i) CMC's, and (ii)
cooperatives, in the Project Area, to adopt satisfactory accounting procedures
adequate to reflect their income and expenditures, and shall cause all CMC's and
cooperatives in the Project Area to have their accounts and financial statements
audited semi-annually by the Controller of WFCU under the supervision of WADU,
and all the accounts and financial statements of said cooperatives and WFCU to
be audited annually by its Registrar of Cooperatives. The Borrower shall submit
or cause to be submitted all such audits and accompanying reports to the
Association for its review and comments no later than six months after the end
of each such annual audit period.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause AIDB and WADU, as the case may
be, to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance of farm inputs and vehicles financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause WADU to prepare a plan of work
in advance of each fiscal year to be approved by the Borrower and the Association,


﻿8
and shall advance to WADU at three monthly intervals such sums as may be required
to enable WADU to carry out the succeeding quarter's portion of the said approved
annual plan of work.
Section 4.04. In order to carry out Part (3)(b) of the Project, the Borrower
shall cause WADU to prepare a rural crafts development plan, such plan to include
provisions for the training and employment of instructors, and for the extension
of credit facilities for the purchase of tools and other equipment related to the
implementation of said plan. The Borrower shall cause WADU to submit the said
plan to the Association for its approval prior to its implementation.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall arrange for appropriate coordination
between its Institute of Agricultural Research and WADU with regard to crop trials
and research activities related to agricultural output in the Project Area.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall provide or cause to be provided promp,tly
as needed all funds necessary and take or cause to be taken all other action as
may be required to adequately maintain the roads and tracks to be constructed
under the Project.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause WADU at all times to employ
qualified and experienced staff, and shall consult with the Association prior to
the initial or new appointment of the personnel to the following positions in
WADU: (i) Director- and, (ii) Heads of the (A) Extension and Training Division,
(B) Marketing and Credit Division, (C) Finance Division, (D) Cooperative
Development Section and (E) Artificial Insemination Section.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall cause WADU to submit to the Association
for its review and comments the design of the water supply system for the two
settlements included in Part 3(b) of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. The Association may, upon the occurrence of certain events
specified in Sections 6.02 or 7.01 of the General Conditions or in Sections 5.02
and 5.03 of this Agreement and the continuance thereof for the period, if any,
specified for the purpose: (i) suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Credit Account or (ii) declare the principal of the
Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately together with the
charges thereon.


﻿9
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   an event giving the Association the right to suspend the right of the
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the First Credit Agreement in whole or
in part shall have occurred; and
(b)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action without the prior approval of the Association for the dissolution or
disestablishment of WADU, AIDB or of any of the 'articipating cooperatives or
CMC's in the Project Area and such dissolution or disestablishment would in the
opinion of the Association materially or adversely affect the execution of or the
benefits expected to be derived from the Project, provided, however, that the
aforesaid shall not apply to the dissolution or disestablishment of a CMC upon
becoming a cooperative.
Section 5.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   the proceeds provided under the First Credit Agreement shall have
been declared, or become, due and payable in advance of the agreed maturity
thereof.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower and AIDB shall have entered into the subsidiary loan
agreement required by Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(b)   the settlers in the settlements established pursuant to the First Credit
Agreement shall have obtained leases adequate to ensure their tenure on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association;


﻿10
(c)   EPID and AIDB shall have entered into an agreement satisfactory to
the Association setting forth the conditions of their cooperation in respect of the
carrying out of Parts (1) and (2) of the Project including, inter alia, the provision
and collection of farm credit and the distribution of farm inputs; and
(d)   WFCUJ and AIDB shall have entered into an agreement satisfactory
to the Association setting forth the terms and conditions under which extension
of seasonal credits to cooperatives in the Project Area will be prolided.
Section 6.02. The lollowing are specified as additional matters. w ithir the
meanint, of Section 12.02(b) of the General Condition. to be in illied in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the subsidiary loan agreement have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental, corporate and
administrative action, and said agreement constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of the Borrower and AIDB in accordance with its terms;
(b)   the leases referred to in Section 6.01(b) of this Agreement hae been
duly authorized and constitute valid and binding obligations k the Bomm e, er in
accordance with their terms:
(c)   the execution and delivery of the agreement referred to in Section
6.01(c) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental, corporate and administrative action, and said agreement constitiltes
a valid and binding obligation of EPID and AIDB in accordance with its terms;
and
(d)   the execution and delivery of the agreement referred to in Section
6.01(d) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental, corporate and administrative action, and said agreement constitutes
a valid and binding obligation of WFCU and AIDB in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. A date 90 days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles Ill and IV
of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement and those
of Section 5.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which


﻿11
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
By /s/ Ghebeyehou Mekbib
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proced2s of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.        Incremental farm               1,800,000         100% of foreign
inputs to be fi-                                expenditures or
nanced under sea-                               69% of total ex-
sonal loans                                     penditures
II.        Machinery and                  360,000          100% of foreign
equipment ex-                                   expenditures or
cluding rural                                   69% of total ex-
water supply                                    penditures
equipment
III.       Vehicles                       530,000          100% of foreign
expenditures or
69% of total ex-
penditures
IV.        WADU buildings                 200,000          69% of total ex-
including live-                                 penditures
stock market
V.         WADU contribution              410,000          69% of total ex-
to cooperative                                  penditures
staff salaries,
buildings and
equipment
VI.        Road construction              600,000          69% of total ex-
including salaries                              penditures
of WADU Road Per-
sonnel
VII.       Salaries, material             250,000          50% of total ex-
and equipment for                               penditures
water supply for
farmers and settle-
ments
VIII.      Assistance to                  150,000          69% of total ex-
rural artisans                                  penditures


﻿14
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
IX.        Salaries of WADU              3,000,000         59% of total ex-
staff including                                 penditures includ-
expatriates ex-                                 ing staff continu-
cluding road con-                               ing First Project
struction and                                   activities
water supply per-
sonnel
X.         WADU operating                1,300,000         59% of total ex-
expenses                                        penditures includ-
ing continuation
of First Project
activities
X1. Studies                                200,000         69% of total ex-
penditures
XII.       Unallocated                   3,200,000
TOTAL        12,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term     "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding    the allocation  of an   amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the


﻿15
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet such estimated
shortfall proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
dishursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
wk thIrawah undi such Category may Continue until all expenditures thereunder
sal!l ha%v been made.
b.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The, Project is the continuation and expansion over a five year period of
the rural development program initiated under the First Credit Agreement. It would
provide credit for incremental agricultural inputs, suppo.t 'or cooperative
development, facilities for livestock development, and technical and administrative
services to small farmers in the Project Area.
In particular the Project would provide support for increased WADU
extension, training, technical, and administrative activities and services for the
following:
(1)   In the Woredas (sub-districts) of Sodo and Bolosso of Wolamo Awraja:
(a)   Extension services to farmers not benefiting from proceeds of the First
Credit Agreement, and animal health, soil conservation and home
economics services and incremental agricultural inputs and related
credit to all farmers in the area whether they have been beneficiaries
of funds provided under the First Credit Agreement or not; and
(b)   The introduction of new services, including livestock and poultry
development, promotion     of improved   fodder crops, and     the
establishment of a primary livestock market and holding ground.
(2)   Throughout the remaining Woredas of the Project Area:
The introduction of extension, elementary animal health, soil
conservation and home economics services, together with credit for
the purchase of agricultural inputs.
(3)   In areas covered by (1) and (2) above, the Project would further include:
(a)   Continued support for 1.3 CMC's and WFCU; and
(b)   Establishment of a further 39 CMC's including the construction of
stores and offices and provision of equipment therefor, construction
of about 600 km of minor roads and tracks (including upgrading of
tracks), improvement of rural water supplies for farmers and for two
settlements in the Project Area, assistance to rural artisans, and the
provision of expanded administrative services.


﻿17
(4)   The Project will also include:
(a)   A monitoring study of the soil conservation program to provide data
for the formulation of a more extensive program of erosion control
in the territories of the Borrower;
(b)   A study on the suitability of available land for further settlement
within the Project Area;
(c)   A study of control and use of ranching land within the Project Area;
and
(d)   An experimental program for improvement of coffee quality.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    The following procurement procedures shall apply in respect of the goods
and works set forth hereunder to be financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds
of the Credit:
(a)   Construction of WADU headquarters shall be awarded to the lowest
evaluated bidder on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally.
(b)   All other civil works included in the Project will be carried out by
WADU force account.
(c)   Contracts for goods and services costing less than $30,000 equivalent
would be awarded on the basis of the Borrower's normal procurement procedures,
but orders would be grouped together whenever possible and all orders in excess
of $30,000 will be subject to the procedures set forth in Parts A(1) and C(l)
of this Schedule 3.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods subject to international competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required
to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and other
import   taxes  on  imported   goods, and    sales  and  similar  taxes  on
domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower
of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in the Empire of Ethiopia may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿19
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Empire of
Ethiopia if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing cost
of such goods includes a value added in the Empire of Ethiopia
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in the
Empire of Ethiopia.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 150 of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed I 5/( of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is. the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.   With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
S30,000 or more:


﻿20
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description
of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Association shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform or cause to be informed the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and the reasons for the intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendation for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the provisions
of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
or cause to be furnished to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the provisions of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.


﻿0                               21
SCHEDULE 4
Principal Terms and Conditions
of Project On-Lending Operations
On-Lending Terms of Seasonal Credit for Farm Inputs
(a)  The Borrower will on-lend to AIDB on the following terms:
Annual Interest Rate:      7-1/4%
Period:                    15 years, including 5 years
of grace on payment of
principal
(b)  AIDB will on-lend to farmers who are members of a CMC on the
following terms:
Annual Interest Rate:      12%
Period:                   11 months
In the granting of credit and collection of repayments, AIDB would
appoint WADU as an agent and would pay WADU for these services
2% of the credit amount per annum.
(c)  For distribution of credit and collection of repayments for loans under
(b) above WADU would attempt to use the services of WFCU and
the CMC's, and would pay 1% of the credit amount per annum to
WFCU and a further 1% to CMC's for those services. If WADU is
unable to secure the foregoing arrangements, alternative arrangements
acceptable to the Association will be substituted therefor.
(d)  AIDB will on-lend to WFCU on the following terms:
Annual Interest Rate:      10%
Period:                    12 months
(e)  WFCU will on-lend to cooperatives on the following terms:
Annual Interest Rate:      11%
Period:                    12 months


﻿22
(f)  Cooperatives will on-lend to their member farmers on the following
terms:
Annual Interest Rate:       12%
Period:                     II months


