RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                     Report No. P-651
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
SECOND WEST PAKISTAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
November 13, 1968



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECCMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR A SECOND WEST PAKISTAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
1..       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan in amounts in various currencies
equivalent to US $35 million to assist in financing a Second Highway Projec4.
in West Pakistan.
2.        This report and recommendation replaces the one which was circulat"-t-%
to Executive Directors under cover of the Secretary's memorandum of June 13
(IDA/R68-27).  At that time it was envisaged that the project would be
financed by the International Development Association and a draft Developmenua
Credit Agreement was forwarded for your consideration along with the Project
Agreement. In view of the delays in IDA replenishment, it is proposed, with
the concurrence of the Government of Pakistan, to have the project financed
by the Bank. The loan does not provide for refinancing the $1 million
Highway Engineering Credit dated August 22, 1966 (S-1 PAK): hence the amount
is $35 million and not the $36 million proposed originally for the IDA
credit. New loan documents to replace the draft credit documents are beintg
distributed to reflect this change.
PART I - HISTORICAL
3.        The construction of new roads to meet the increased demands of
agricultural and industrial growth in West Pakistan stands high on the list
of Pakistan's development priorities. Allied to this is an increasing awarc-
ness on the part of the Central and Provincial Governments of the need to
establish policies for transport coordination in West Pakistan and to resolve
certain serious problems of road maintenance and highway administration.
4.        The problems of road transport in West Pakistan have engaged the
.attention of the World Bank Group since 1961. In 1961 the Association made
a first credit of $17 million (Credit 54-PAK) to finance the construction
of a highway and three bridges, feasibility studies and general consultants'
services in West Pakistan. This project is being carried out satisfactorily.
5.        In 1966 a second credit of $1 million was provided by the
Association (Credit S-1 PAK) to assist in financing the detailed engineerini,
of two major roads and two bridges in West Pakistan. The proposed loan wor.1A1
enable Pakistan to continue the improvement of road transportation facilitife
and highway organization financed under Credit 54-PAK and would complement
the program of work under Credit S-1 PAK by providing construction financing
for the highways and one of the bridges engineered under that credit.



- 2 -
6.        The project was appraised in March 1968.  Negotiations took place
in Washington between June 5 and June 10 -with a delegation comprising Mr.
A.R. Bashir, Economic Minister, Embassy of Pakistan; Mr. Niaz Ahmad,
Secretary to the Communications and Works Department of the Government of
West Pakistan; Mr. Saeed Ahmad, Director General of the Highway Department
of W[est Pakistan; and Dr. A. uz Zaman, Economic Secretary, Embassy of
Pakistan.
7.        The Bank has made 26 loans to Pakistan to date, totalling $518
million, of which 17 are fully disbursed. The Association has made 24
credits, totalling about $364 million, of which 6 are fully disbursed. The
following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to Pakistan
as of October 31, 1968:



-3-
Loanv
Credit   Year    Borrower         Purpose                Amount (US $ million)
No.                                                   Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
266     1960   Islamic
Republic of Indus Basin (Multi-
Pakistan      Purpose)                 90.0             40.5
(Pakistan)
22     1962   Pakistan     Khairpur Ground Water
and Salinity Control            18.0       6.5
39     1963   Pakistan      Brahmaputra Flood
Embankment                       5.0       0.3
40            Pakistan      Chandpur Irrigation               5.2       0.6
41            Pakistan     Dacca Water Supply and
Sewerage                        13.2      11.6
Pakistan      Chittagong Water Supply
and Sewerage                     7.0       5.4
376     1964   Trustees of
the Port of Port Development           17.0             10.3
Karachi
382            PICIC         Industrial Development    30.0              0.8
49            Pakistan      East Pakistan Education           4.5       1.6
50      U     Pakistan     West Pakistan Education            8.5       5.4
53      "     Pakistan      East Pakistan Highway            22.5      20.6
54            Pakistan     West Pakistan Highway             17.0       9.1
56            Pakistan     Pakistan Eastern Railway          10.0       3.3
57            Pakistan      Pakistan Western Railway         24.4       0.1
65            Pakistan     Inland Water Transport             5.2       o.4
76     1965   Pakistan     Agricultural Development
Bank                            27.0       1.3
4~21    ,t     PICIC         Industrial Development    30.0              8.8
83     1966   Pakistan      Foodgrain Storage                19.2      14.4
87            Pakistan     Second East Pakistan
Education                       13.0      12.5
S-1            Pakistan     Project Preparation Credit
(Highway Engineering)            1.0       0.3
488     1967   KESC         Karachi Electric Supply    21.5             12.7
106      if    Pakistan     Lahore Water Supply,
Sewerage and Drainage            1.8       1.4
496     ,,     Pakistan     Pakistan Western Railway   13.5             ll.'J
509            PICIC         Industrial Development    35.0             31.1
548     1968   Pakistan     Power                      25.0             25.0
117      If    Pakistan      Second Agricultural
Development Bank                10.0       9.8
549     ti     Dawood
Hercules     Fertilizer Project        32.0             32.0
Loans/Credits fully disbursed                222.9  118.0
Total (less cancellations)                 516.9  330.5
of which has been repaid to Bank
and others                               111.3
Total now outstanding                      405.6
Amount sold                  21.9
of which has been repaid  16.8             5.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA             400.5  330.5
Total undibbursed                          173.1 104.6      277.7
NOTE-  Loan No. 549-PAK in the amount of $32.0 million, of which $950,000 has
been agreed to be sold, is not yet effecvive.



8.        Execution of Bank Group financed projects in Pakistan has been
generally satisfactory. Executive Directors recently approved a proposal
for the revision and scaling down of the Dacca and Clhittagong Water Supply
Projects (Credits 41 and 42-PAK).
9.        Further Bank operations envisaged for the current fiscal year may
include a loan of $35 to $40 million to the Pakistan Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation (PICIC), a loan of $28 million for a second fertilizer
plant in West Pakistan and a loan of approximately $12 million for a natural
gas transmission project also in West Pakistan. In addition to this highway
project two other projects, which had been scheduled for IDA financing, are
also being considered for Bank loans. These are a telecommunications projecu
in West Pakistan ($16 million) and a low lift pumps project in East Pakistan
(approximately $10 million). A credit of $2 million from existing IDA funds
will shortly be proposed to meet part of the costs of employing general con-
sultants to the East Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority.   Arrange
ments are also being made to appraise a third Agricultural Bank project and
a West Pakistan railway project; the financing of both these projects will
be subject to IDA replenishment.
10.       IFC has made nine commitments in Pakistan totalling $21 million.
The outstanding commitment net of repayments, cancellation and sales of
loans is about $18 million. IFC is presently considering investment appli-
cations for additional fertilizer projects. The IFC operations in Pakistar
are proceeding satisfactorily.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
11.       Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiary:             Province of West Pakistan.
Amount:                  Various currencies equivalent to $35.0
million.
Purpose:                 To finance the foreign exchange cost of
the construction of two highways via
Sheikhupura - between Lahore and Lyallpur
and Lahore and Sargodha respectively -
including a major bridge across the Chenab
River; feasibility and detailed design
studies for other roads; a transport
coordination study; a three-year mainte-
nance program; and consultant services.



Amortization:            In 30 years including a 10 year period
of grace, through semi-annual install-
ments beginning March 15, 1979 and ending
March 15, 1999.
Interest Rate:           6-1/2 percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:       3/4 of one percent per annum on the
undisbursed amount of the loan.
Relending Terms:         The proceeds of the loan, less the amount
allocated for the transport coordination
study, will be relent to the Province of
West Pakistan on the same financial terms
as those granted to the Borrower by the
Bank.
Estimated Economic       17 percent on the construction of the
Return on the Project:   two highways.
PART III - THE PROJECT
12.       A detailed description of the project was given in the Appraisal
Report entitled "A Second Highway Project for West Pakis-tan" (TO-651a)
which was distributed to Executive Directors on June 13, 1968. Additional
copies of this report are attached. They have to be regarded as being
modified to reflect the change from an IDA credit to a Bank loan and the
fact that the $1 million IDA Highway Engineering Credit is not to be
refinanced.
13.       West Pakistan has a network of roads totalling about 30,000 miles
of which over 10,000 miles are paved. Although the length of the network is
generally adequate,the width and strength of the pavement is limited, the
quality of surfacing is poor and many of these roads cannot be made suitab> C
for modern motor traffic without extensive rebuilding. The problem is com-
plicated by the widespread use of animal drawn traffic on trunk roads which
further reduces their capacity to carry motor traffic.
1h.       The project will finance the construction of two highways and one
of two bridges engineered under Credit No. S-1 PAK. One section of a high-
way - engineered from Sargodha to Khushab - has been deferred for later
financing. The project area includes some of the best agricultural lands
and the heaviest industrialized areas in West Pakistan. It also contains
some of     West Pakistan's most congested population centers.
15.       The proposed road from Lahore to Lyallpur would link the second
and third largest cities of West Palistan by a modern highway. The road
from Lahore to Sargodha which includes the new bridge over the Chenab River,
is expected to result in a sharp drop in transport costs between Lahore and



- 6 -
the agricultural area west of the river. The two roads will have a total
length of 170 miles -which is 27 miles less than the existing routes.
Construction will be confined to two-lane roads in both cases, but right
of way acquisition is proceeding as planned for ultimate expansion to six
lanes from Lahore to Sheikhupura and to four lanes from Sheikhupura to
Lyallpur and Sargodha -when warranted. The Pakistan Government's current
intention is that tolls would be collected on both roads, but it has agreed
to consult with the Association on this matter in the light of the findings
of the transport coordination study.
16.       The estimated economic return on the Lahore-Sheikhupura and
Sheikhupura-Lyallpur sections of the proposed road from Lahore to Lyalipur
is 14 percent and 21 percent respectively. The rate of return on the
Sheikhupura-Sargodha road is 16 percent. The investment in both roads is
expected to yield an economic rate of return of 17 percent.
17.       The project also provides for feasibility studies and detailed
engineering design for sections of the National Highway bet'ween Karachi
and Rawalpindi.  The Karachi-Hyderabad section is presently being constructe-3
under Credit No. 54-PAK and detailed engineering of the Multan-Lahore section
has been financed by USAID. It is now proposed to update the feasibility
studies of the Hyderabad-Nlultan road, carried out previously by USAID, and
prepare detailed design for high priority sections of that road totalling
about 250 miles. A feasibility study is also provided under the project
for the trunk road between Lahore and Ra'walpindi.
18.       Provision is also included in the project for consultant service.d;
to assist in the reorganization and training of the staff of the Highway
Department of liest Pakistan; and for a three-year maintenance program which
would include the purchase of equipment and spare parts. The project also
provides for a study by the Central Government with the assistance of con-
sultants -which 'would make recommendations for effective transport coordina-
tion in West Pakistan.
19.       The project - excluding the transport coordination study - would
be carried out, with the assistance of consultants, by the Highway Depart-
ment of the Communications and Works Department of the Government of West
Pakistan. The Highway Department was established on October 1, 1967
following a recommendation of the general consultant retained under Credit
54-PAK, that the then combined Buildings and Roads Department be reorganized
as two separate departments. Continued assistance by the general consultant
is required for reorganizing and training of staff in the Highway Department
and assurances were given by the representatives of the Provincial Governmetit
during negotiations that a contract for these services would be signed befoDre
the proposed Loan Agreement is signed.
20.       The proposed loan would finance only the foreign exchange
component (approximately 47 percent) of the total project cost. The
remainder of the project will be financed by the Government of West
Pakistan 'with the exception of the local costs of the transport coordina-
tion study which will be met by the Government of Pakistan.  No disburse-
ments from the loan 'would be made for expenditures prior to the date



- 7 -
on which the Loan Agreement is signed except for spare parts and consultants'
services for which retroactive financing from July 1, 1968 is proposed. The
amount involved would be approximately $500,000.
21.       It is intended to exempt the procurement of two items from inter-
national competitive bidding. These are spare parts for existing equipment
(approximately $150,000) and some specialized office and engineering equip-
ment (approximately $50,000).
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
22.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Province
of West Pakistan, and the Report of the Committee provided for under
Article V, Section 7 of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
23.       The draft legal documents contain provisions generally used for
highway projects. In addition, provision is made in the draft Loan Agreement
for the relending of most of the proceeds of the loan by the Borrower to the
Province.
24.       Under the draft Project Agreement, the Province undertakes to
allocate annually, until the completion of the transport coordination study,
recurrent maintenance funds for high-ways under the jurisdiction of the
Highway Department of the Province in an amount not less than the amount
allocated by the Province in the fiscal year 1967/68.
PART V - THE ECONOMRY
25.       A Report on the Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Pakistan (AS-136a) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 22,
1968. Pakistan's economic performance has been generally satisfactory.
Preliminary estimates put the gross domestic product in 1967/68 (at constant
prices) 8.3% above last year's, tuhus bringing the average annual rate of
growth since the beginning of the Third Plan (1965-1970) to 6%. There are,
however, a number of areas where early improvement is desirable, as in taxa-
tion of the agricultural sector, revenues from government services, promotion
of export crops, and further streamlining of the exchange rate system. The
Government indicated at the meeting of the Pakistan Consortium in May that
steps would be taken along the lines recommended by the Bank.
26.       The 1968/69 budget of the Central Government reflects the continuing
efforts to mobilize more domestic resources for development. It provides for
a 14% increase in revenue receipts over revised estimates for 1967/68, wihile



-8 -
the rise in non-development outlays is held to 7.2% (1966/67: 6%), consisting
largely of higher expenditures on defense (10i) and on debt service. For the
country as a -whole, public development expenditures are expected to go up by
18%, while the contribution of domestic resources towards their financing
would increase by more than one-fourth.
27.       It is also tworth noting that continuing liberalization of imports
and rationalization of the multiple exchange structure are the main features
of the Government's import policy for the second half of 1968. The number
of items not requiring import licenses has been further increased. Also,
industrial enterprises in the public sector, which so far enjoyed the privi-
lege of importing at the par rate, have now been put on equal footing  ith
private industry.  These moves are a welcome continuation of the Government's
liberalization policy wihich, having been suspended in 1965, was resumed in
late 1967. The IMF recently agreed to support this policy by a stand-by
credit of $75 million.
28.       Reduction in the rate of growth of population is a matter of great
importance for Pakistan, its achievement a major objective of Government
policy. Earlier this year, the Government invited a U.N. mission to review
the family planning program which -was established in 1965/66. It is en-
couraging to note that the mission's preliminary conclusions are generally
favorable -with respect to the effectiveness of the program. However, the
population problem continues to demand close attention.
29.       Service payments on Pakistan's external public debt, excluding
short-term food credits, are estimated to be roughly equal to 16, of
exchange earnings in 1968. The terms, on which aid is made available to
Pakistan, have hardened in the first three years of the Third Plan, partly
as a result of the Government's attempt to compensate for declining official
assistance from the West by tapping other sources.  If assistance to Pakistan
were made available in future roughly in the amount and on the terms of
1967/68, debt service -would be around 20% of exchange earnings over the ne-I,
four years, but rise sharply thereafter. The Government of Pakcistan is
acutely aware of this emerging problem and several approaches to a debt
management policy aiming at containing the debt service burden within toler-
able limits are being explored.
30.       It -was recognized earlier that Bank assistance for the urgently
needed expansion of fertilizer production in Pakistan - consisting of the
recent loan of $32 million to Dawood Hercules Chemicals and the proposed
loans for a second fertilizer plant and the gas transmission project - to-
gether with the additional commitment for Tarbela ($25 million) -would, for
the time being, harden the blend of Bank Group assistance. The delay in
the Second Replenishment of IDA resources has further deferred the time
-when the Bank Group can provide assistance to Pakistan on soft-blend terms
in accordance with the country's economic situation and prospects. In the
meantime, however, considering the extended terms that will be recommended
for the projects shifted to Bank financing and the prospect of easing the
blend of Bank Group assistance as and ..jhen IDA resources are replenished,
Pakistan can be regarded as credit-vworthy for the Bank lending proposed.



_ 9 _
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
31.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
32.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
in an amount equivalent to US $35,000,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
five million United States dollars (US $35,000,000), to mature on
and prior to March 15, 1999, to bear interest at the rate of six
and one-half percent (6-1/2>) per annum, and to be upon such other
terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with
the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement
(Second West Pakistan Highway Project) between the Islamic Republio
of Pakistan and the Bank and in the form of Project Agreement
(Second Wrlest Pakistan Highway Project) between the Bank and the
Province of West Pakistan, w.3hich have been presented to this
meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
Attachment                                           President
by S.R. Cope
November 13, 1968



