LcsqtIJ 5Z58 -64             Tl       C 0(
RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-651a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as-representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
WEST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
RETURN TO
RECORDS CINTER HeOA mB'
Box r!0    &~;        2
June 12, 1968
:,rojects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit of currency in use: Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
Official Exchange Rate
Rs 1(100 paisa)     =    US$ 0.21
Rs 4.76             =     US$ 1.00
Rs 1 million        =    US$ 210, 000
Fiscal Year: July 1 to June 30
Units of Weights and Measures:
British/US
British/US: Metric Equivalent
1 mile              =    1. 6. kilometers
1 foot              =    0. 30 meters
1 square mile       =    2. 59 square kilometers
1 ton               =    1.02 metric tons



IWEST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHIAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SUMMARY                                                    i
1.  INTRODUCTION                                               1
2.  BACKGROUND                                                 3
A.  General                                              3
B.  The Transport Sector                                 3
3.  HIGltAY SECTOR                                             8
A. The Highway Network and Organization                  8
B.  Vehicle Fleet and Traffic Volume                     8
C.  Highway Financing                                    9
4. THE PROJECT                                                11
A.  Description                                         11
B.  Trunk Road Construction                             12
C.  General Consultant Services                         13
D.  Other Consultant Services                           13
E.  Three-Year Maintenance Program                      15
F.  Refunding of Credit S-1 PAK                         16
G.  Execution                                           17
H.  Cost Estimate and Financing                         18
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                        21
A.  Trunk Road Construction                             21
B.  Consultant Studies                                  24
C.  Three-Year M5aintenance Program                     24
6.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMvENDATIONS                           26
This report was prepared by Messrs. H. Kaden (Engineer) and
G. Roth (Economist) assisted by Mr. G. Mahoney (Engineer).



-2-
Anmexes
I. Current Status of Highway Department
II. Detailed Outline of General Consultant Services
III. Population and Economic Activity in the Project Area
Tables
1. Commercial Vehicles "On Road"
2. Fuel Consumption by Road Vehicles in West Pakistan
3. Development of Paved Road Network
4. Provincial and Central Road Allocations
5. Vehicle Taxation
6.  Revenues Collected Under Motor Vehicle Act and Fuel Taxes
7. Design Standards for Two-Lane Main Trunk Highways to be Constructed
8. Maintenance Equipment and Cost
9. Summary of Costs, Benefits and Rates of Return
Chart    Organization of the Highway Department
Map      West Pakistan - Principal Roads and Railroads



WEST PAKISTAIi
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGH!AY PROJECT
SUMARY
The Government of Pakistan has asked IDA to help finance a second
highway project in West Pakistan. The highway project and studies being
financed by Credit 54-PAK and the engineering studies by Credit S-1 PAK
provide the basis for the proposed project. Performance under both credits
is generally satisfactory.
ii.       The second highway project consists of (a) construction of two
trunk highways west from Lahore totalling about 170 miles: (b) consulting
services (i) to provide continued assistance in reorganizing the Highway
Department, (ii) to prepare a transport study for West Pakistan, and (iii) to
study and partially design two trunk roads; and (c) a three-year maintenance
program. The project is scheduled to commence in mid-1968 and to be completea
by the end of 1971.
iii.      IDA would finance the foreign exchange component estimated at
US$36.0 million equivalent out of a total project expenditure of about
US$76.0 million eauivalent. These totals include US$1.0 million for refund-
ing Credit S-1 PAK. The local currency costs would be provided by the
Government through its regular budgets.
iv.       The estimated benefits of the two project roads to be constructed,
primarily savings in vehicle operating costs, would yield an economic re-
turn of about 17 percent which is satisfactory. Benefits from other iterns
of the project are important but are not readily quantifiable.
v.        With the exception of the transport study which would be the res-
ponsibility of the Central Go-vernment, project responsibility would rest
with the Highway Department of the Communications and Works Department assis-
ted by consultants. After considerable delay in Government approval, a new
functional organization for the Highway Denartment was adoDted on October 1l
1967. Subsequent progress in its implementation has been satisfactory.
vi.       The Government has indicated that it will sign a contract satis-
factory to the Association for general consultant services prior to July 1,
1968. The signing of such a contract will be a condition of signing of the
credit.
vii.      A small amount of retroactive financing will be required as the
credit will not be signed until after June 30, 1968.
viii.     The project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$36.0
million equivalent to the Government of Pakistan which would relend the pro-
ceeds to the Province of lWest Pakistan, with the exception of US$0.50 million
allocated to the transport study.



WEST PAKISTPN
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROAJECT
1.  INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Government of Pakistan has asked IDA to help finance a
second highway project in West Pakistan. The project consists of: (1)
construction of two trunk highways west from Lahore totalling about 170
miles:, (2) consulting services (a) to continue assistance in reorganizing,
the Highway Department, (b) to prepare a transport study for West Pakistan,
tc) to study and partially design two trunk roads; and (3) a three-year
maintenance program.
1.2       The World Bank Group has been in contact with the problems and
needs of roads and road transport in West Pakistan since 1961. Several
years were required to prepare a project. Credit 54-PAK (Appraisal Report
No. TO-406b) signed in June 1964, provided US`17 million for the final
engineering and construction of a new 80-mile highway between Karachi and
Hyderabad; the review of design and supervision of construction for three
major river bridges; the employrent of general consultants for a three-
year period to advise and assist the HliFhway Department of matters of
organization and operation; and consulting engineers to carry out feasi-
bility studies of access to Karachi awd Hyderabadl. The ouality of work
performed under this credit is considered satisfactory and. the total fo-
reign exchange cost of the work is currentlv estimated at slightly under
the US$17 million credit.
1.3       Frederick B. Harris, Inc. (IJS) was selected in early 1965 for
design and field supervision of construction on the Karachi-Hyderabad road.
A construction contract was let to Cogefar-Astaldi (Italy) after inter-
national competitive bidding and work started in April 1967. Work is
approximately 25 percent complete and the project is expected to be onened
to traffic in November 1969, prior to the Credit closing date.    The three
new bridges are expected to be opened to traffic in June 1968, essentially
on schedule.
1.4       Work of the general consultant, Howard, Needles, Tammen and
Bergendoff (US) has been generally satisfactory (see Annex I) but accom-
plishments fell short of original expectations.   The original schedule
al'lowed one year for the general consultant to prepare a report on Highway
Department reorganization and two years to assist in the implementation of
recommendations. The report was issued on time but two years were required
for Government consideration and approval.   This delayed all other assign-
ments of the general consultant particularly in establishing new sections
and in training programs. Also the outbreak of hostilities between
Pakistan and India in September 1965 seriously disrupted the general con-
sultant's work.
1.5       Credit S-1 PAK (Appraisal Report No. TO-499a) signed in August
1966, provides US$1 million for the detailed eng-ineeri-g of an 83-*mile high-
way from Lahore through Sheikhupura to Lyallpur and a 109-mile highway from



Sheikhupura to Khushab. The quality of work is satisfactory and the current
estimate of the foreign exchange cost is within the credit amount. Sir
William Halcrow and Partners (UK), in association with Incorporated Consultin?'
Engineers (Pakistan), were selected as design consultants for the Lahore-
Lyallpur road, and Pacific Consultants (Japan), in association with Zafar and
Associates (Pakistan), for the Sheikhupura-Khushab road.   Final design of the
two roads has been completed. Plans for two major river bridges on the
Sheikhupura-Khushab road, being prepared by the Bridge Directorate, are essen-
tially complete, and Pacific Consultants have been asked to submit a priced
proposal for plan review and construction supervision.
1.6       Credit 81-PAK (January 1966) provided USt25 million for the im-
port of heavy vehicle chassis components for assembly in Pakistan. Almost
all assembly and delivery within Pakistan has been completed and the Credit
has been fully disbursed.
1.7       In addition to the highway credits mentioned above, the Bank/IDA
has provided eight other loans/credits for transportation facilities in
West Pakistan. Two loans have been for ports and five loans and one credit
have been for railroads.
1.8       This appraisal report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal
mission, consisting of Messrs. Young and Kaden (Engineers) and Mr. Roth
(Economist), which visited West Pakistan in March, 1968.



- 3 -
2. BACKGROUND
A.   General
2.1       The Province of West Pakistan covers a land area of about
310,000 square miles, one and a half times that of France. It consists
mainly of a flat plain stretching from the foothills of the Himalayas in
the northeast to the Arabian Sea in the southwest. Annual rainfall varies
from 5 inches in the south to 30 inches in the north. The main inhabited
area lies in the center and north of the Province. It is crossed by five
great rivers, the Indus, Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi and Sutiej, which, after their
confluence, flow as the Indus southwestwards to the sea. These rivers
annually overflow their banks and the resulting floods cause serious inter-
ruptions to transport.
2.2       The Province has a pooulation of about 54 million people, 75 per-
cent of whom live in rural areas. Some 50 percent of the 13.5 million
urban dwellers live in the five principal cities of Ravwalpindi, Karachi,
Hyderabad, Lahore and Lyallpur. The population is believed to be increasing
at the rate of 2.6 to 3.0 percent per year, the growth in urban areas increas-
ing at an above average rate because of migration from the countryside and th-
settlement of refugees.
2.3       West Pakistan's economy is primarily rural, with about half of
the gross domestic product arising out of agriculture, fishing and forestry.
Transport and conamunications account for 6.4 percent of gross domestic prod--
uct.  The main industries are centered in or around Karachi, Hyderabad,
Multan, Lyallpur and Lahore and comprise cotton textiles, cement, sugar,
chemical fertilizers and leather goods.
2.4       Average annual income per head in West Pakistan is estimated at
about US$120 in 1966/1967. Gross national product is increasing at a rate
of 4.7 percent per year but in view of the population increase, the growth
in GNP per head is between 1.5 to 2 percent per year. The economic situ-
ation in Pakistan has been reviewed extensively in recen+t Bank reports, the
latest of which is Report No. AS-136, "Current Economic Position and Pros-
pects of Pakistan," dated April 17, 1968.
B.   The Transport Sector
a. General Survey
2.5       All transport modes, ranging from camel train to jet aircraft,
are represented in West Pakistan. The main traffic flows converge on the
thickly populated area in the northeast centered on Lahore. This area gen-
erates flows southwest to the port and industrial area of Karachi; west to
the industrial and agricultural areas around Lyallpur, Sargodha, and Khushabl
and northwest to the administrative centers in Rawalpindi and Islamabad, and
to Peshawar and the Afghan border beyond. All these main routes are served
by rail, road, and air transport.



- 4 -
2.6       The Pakistan Wlestern Railways (PWR) are Government-owned and
operated, and constitute one of the largest and most important organiza-
tions in the Province. For many years the railways provided the main means
of mechanized transport; recently an increasing proportion of transport has
been carried by road, and railway traffic has shown little overall growth.
2.7       Transport by road is provided by a wide variety of means.   Animal-
drawn traffic is widely used, particularly in agricultural areas. Motor-
ized transnort has doubled in the last ten years.   Bus services are provided
both by private and by Government-owned firms; the carriage of goods is
almost entirely in private hands.   Standards of both vehicles and roads are
below those generally accepted in many developing countries.
2.8       Air transport is provided by the Government--owned Pakistan Inter-
national Airlines (PIA) which onerates services between twenty points in
West Pakistan. The number of passengers carried within the Province rose
from 198,000 in 1962/1963 to about 324,000 in 1966/1967, an average annual
growth rate of 13.1 percent. Load factors and efficiency are high by any
standard.  PIA operates prof'itably.
b. The Railways
2.9       PWR have about 5,335 route miles of raili-ay line, 87 percent of
which are broad gauge.   Since 1964/1965 the railways' passenger and freight
traffic have remained virtually stable at about 5,000 million ton-miles and
6,000 million passenger-miles respectively.   In 1967/1968 there is evidence
of a decline in railway traffic. It is not clear to what extent this is
due to a drop in demand or to a lack of carrying capacity, as rail users
complain of having to wait up to six weeks for wagons.
2.10      Excessive emnhasis is given by PIWR to carrying passengers, at the
expense of freight, at fares that make an inadequate contribution to rev-
nues. As the average length of passenger journeys is under 50 miles, many
journeys made by train might well be better suited to bus operation. It is
therefore probable that the improvement of the roads in West Pakistan and
the provision of more buses could do much to improve operations of the PWR
by relieving it of some uneconomic passenger traffic.
2.11      P-TR is making a major contribution to Pakistan's economic devel-
opment. This contribuition could be enhanced further if PWR concentrated on
the transport of long distance bulk commodities, for which it has an advan--
tage over road transport, and if it gave a lower priority to passenger
services, where it operates at a disadvantage.
c. Road Transport
2.12      Reliable data are lacking on the road transport industry in West
Pakistan. The latest available figures on the vehicle population (Table 1)
together with figures of fuel consumption (Table 2) suggest that the use
of mechanized transport is increasing at the rate of 10 to 15 percent each
year. No adequate statistics are available on the commodities carried, the
length of journey, or the size of transport firms. The transport of goods



- 5 -
is entirely in private hands. Most of the haulage firms are very small units,
typically operating three vehicles or less. It is likely that about 4,000
million ton-miles a year are trucked in West Pakistan, compared with the
5,000 million ton-miles carried by rail.
2.13      The trucking industry is still expanding, although not as quickly
as in the period 1960-1967. The slowdown was associated with the requirement
that truck imports be paid for by means of "Bonus Vouchers," i.e., at a rate
of exchange equivalent to about Rs. 13 to the dollar.    The new import require-
ment followed the termination of commercial vehicle imports under IDA Credit
81-PAK, which enabled the road transport industry to purchase some 8,000
trucks and buses on favorable terms in 1966-]907.   Under the new policy the
price of a Bedford 7-ton truck rose from Rs. 32,000 payable under the IDA
Credit to Rs. 50,000. At this price local assembly plants are working below
capacity.  The exchange rate used for commercial vehicle imports is an impor-
tant element in transport coordination policy; but the subject has much
broader implications.  The Government has agreed that this matter will be in-
cluded in the terms of reference of the proposed transport study of West
Pakistan (para. 2.24).
2.14      Permits to use trucks for haulage are obtainable without difficulty
and the licensing procedure does not interfere with the freedom of carriage;
on the contrary, there is evidence that regulations limiting drivers' hours
and axle weights are disregarded and that higher erforcemenit standards are
required.
2.15      Bus services are provided both by the Government-owTned Poad Trans-
port Corporation and by private firms. Total passenger mileage is about
6,400 million passenger-miles a year, which is almost equal to the output of
the railways.  In contrast to goods haulage, passenger transport is restricted
by a licensing system that leaves much to be desired. Preference is given to
Government-owned buses over privately owned ones. Furthermore, the scarcitr
of private bus permits is such that many are obtained for hiring to other bus
operators. There is an urgent need to take a fresh look at the bus licensing
system to determine the purpose (if any) of restriction and the best way of
allocating permits. The Government has agreed to include the question of bu.-.
licensing in the terms of reference of the proposed transport study of West
Pakistan (para. 2.24).
2.16      Bus fares are also determined by the Provincial licensing authori-
ties and are currently fixed at a level of 3 paisa a mile.   These rates appear
to be acceptable to operators outside the urban areas though they probably
contribute to the overcrowding and poor traveling conditions offered to bus
passengers, and to the slow growth of the bus industry. In Karachi the offi-
cial fare of 3 paisa is not high enough to cover the costs of the service an'
many buses have recently been withdrawn from the city.
2.17      There is evidence that the bus population is growing at about one
third the rate of the truck population (para. 3.5), and that the fastest grow-
ing classes of traffic are the motorized cycles and rickshaws.   As buses are
heavily loaded, these figures suggest that the restrictions on bus operation
encourage the growth of light motorized personal transport. One ef'ect of



- 6 -
this shift from public to private transport is an increase in the total numbe:^
of vehicles, and, conseouently, in the requirements for road space.
d. Transnort Coordination
2.18      The authorities have not yet developed a consistent policy towards
the problems of transport coordination. In general, government measures tend
to favor the railways, which are allowed to imoort their requirements at
preferential rates and which have access to cheap capital. Free competition
is allowed betwTeen trucks, but not between buses.
2.19      Decisions about the allocation of investment funds to transport are
made at two levels, first in the Planning Commission of the Central Govern-
ment and secondly at the Provincial level. Control at the Center depends on
the fact that all schemes costing more than Rs. 5 million, and all projects
in the Five-Year Plan, must be appro-ved by the National Economic Committee.
However, the total number of projects approved is greater than can be finan-
ced by the present Plan, so that in practice the important question is which
of the approved schemes are to receive priority.   In the road and rail sectors.
these decisions are made at Provincial level.
2.20      Allocations within the Provincial budget are determined by the Pro-
vincial Department of Planning and Development, which is therefore the orgarn-
ization primarily concerned with the coordination of transnort investment.
The importance of transport coordination is appreciated in the Department,
but its effectiveness is limited by the extent of its authority and lack of
information.
2.21      The authority of the Department extends only to "Provincial1   sub-
jects.  Ports and civil aviation, as well as postal, telegraph and telenhone
services, are all 'Central" subjects over which the Provincial Department ha.;
no authority.  Furthermore, in road and rail transport its concern is mainlr
with public sector investments. It is not officially concerned with the
licensing of commercial vehicles (which is the responsibility of the Provin-
cial Transport Department) nor with the pricing policy or profitability of thre
railways. The railways are supervised by the (Provincial) Railways Ministr-
and there is no single Minister or Department responsible for looking at
transport as a whole.
2.22      A Transport Planning Cell was set up in 1967 to supDly the Plannin-,
and Development Department with the necessary expertise and data. The key
people in the Cell are a transport planning expert of the Harvard Advisory
Group and a Pakistani transport econcmist. An expatriate transport economist
is to join the group under the auspices of the United Nations.   The USAID ha.
provided US$100,000 for basic research. Investigations carried out by the
Cell so far include a sample survey of commercial vehicles; a study of the
econcmic base of the Province for the assessment of long term transport dema;
a study of vehicle operating costs; and a study of the costs of the road
system and of motor taxation revenues.
2.23      The Transport Planning Cell has started to do useful work that pro-
vides a foundation for sound transport planning.   Its long term success, how-
ever, is deped,rn's or. o +,t: recruitment of pers.3nent hig>-l re  Fek!bsni



-7 -
capable of persuading the various Departments to adopt proper policies for
transport matters, since, as noted in paragraph 2.21 a n.umber of important
subjects are outside its direct authority.
2.24      The Government of Pakistan has proposed a major transport survey
for both provinces to review and update previous studies, to collect further
data as required and to make recommendations for the future development of
transport. Such a study could provide the basis for effective transport
coordination, especially if it were oriented to policy issues such as import
policies for road and rail transport equipment (para. 2.13), the licensing
of bus services (para. 2.15); and the financing of highways (para. 3.12).
Since such a study would have considerable bearing on future Bank/IDA Jendina
in the transportation sector in West Pakistan, it is incluaded in the ProJect
but will not be financed under this Credit if the cost can be met from anothe-
source. The Government has agreed to expedite the study.



- 8 -
3.  HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.   The Highway Network and Organization
3.1       The length of West Pakistan's road system is about 30,000 miles,
excluding roads under municipal and tribal state authorities. The Highway
Department, under the Communication and Works (C & W) Department, administers
the more important roads - about 10,000 miles of paved roads (Table 3) and
about 8,000 miles of shingled or brick surfaced roads (Map). The remaining
12,000 miles of mainly earth roads are under the jurisdiction of the Depart-
ment of Basic Democracies. The density of the network is generally adeauate,
but its quality is poor.
3.2       The road system was largely developed in pre-Independence days by
connecting population centers with a network of low standard, low cost roads
many of which, despite surfacing and minor improvetnents, are inadequate for
modern motor traffic.  The magnitude and nature of the improvement and main-
tenance tasks facing West Pakistan would tax the capacity of any highway
organization. As in many developing countries, road improvement and main-
tenance have been poor.
3.3       In recognition of these problems the Government adopted a new High-
way Department organization on October 1, 1967. The principal problems to
be overcome, progress made to date and a sumiiary of further objectives for
all sections of the new Department are presented in Annex I.
B.   Vehicle Fleet and Traffic Volume
3.4       Published data about the number of motor vehicles in Pakistan are
misleading, and may exaggerate the size of the vehicle population by as much
as 50 percent.  The corrected estimates of commercial vehicles on the road
for the years 1960/61 to 1965/66 are shown in Table 1.
3.5       During this six-year period the bus and truck population grew at
rates of 3 percent and 9 percent per year respectively.   The growth of the
bus population may have been inhibited by the restrictive licensing policy
and by the control of bus fares. The growth rates in 1966 and 1967 were
stimulated by vehicles provided under Credit 81-REX (para. 1.6).
3.6       Estimates of the car population in 1965/66 vary from 47,000 to
99,000.  The former fiaure is probably nearer the truth.   It is not feasible
to estimate directly the growth rate of the private car population. Other
indications of growth rate may be obtained from the rate of increase in fue'.
consumption (Table 2). In the period 1962-1966 it was 11 percent per year
for the whole Province.  A major oil company expects Provincial fuel consump-
tion to increase at about 12 percent per year between 1966 and 1970. The
Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC) expects the
growth of passenger traffic to average 10 percent per year between 1965 and
1970, and the growth of freight traffic to average 15 percent a year. In-
creases of this magnitude are not out of line with experience in other coun-
tries.  In general it appears that motorized traffic is growing a- a rate o.



about 10 percent p.a., in West Pakistan as a whole, but at a considerably
higher rate in the project area (para. 5.7). The above figures take no
account of animal drawn traffic. This appears to be declining, but it still
takes up a considerable proportion of road canacity.
C.   Highway Financing
3.7       Main highways in West Pakistan are financed from three sources:
(a) funds voted from the Provincial budget and allocated to the Highway
Department, (b) funds received from the Central Government, and (c) receipts
from tolls.
3.8       The allocations from Provincial funds for the years 1963/64 to
1966/67 are shown in Table 4. Specific allocations are made for adminis-
tration, maintenance and construction. The allocation for maintenance is
based on road type and mileage and is distributed within the Province to the
regional offices on a similar basis. The Director General allocates the
funds for new construction, subject to the approval of the Department of
Planning and Development of major schemes.
3.9       The allocations from Central funds for the years 1965/66 and 1966/67
are also shown in Table 4. The payments from the Center are made out of the
Central Road Fund which was created in 1949. The Fund is financed out of a
proportion of customs and excise duties on petrol (other than aviation) cal-
culated at the rate of 31 paisa per gallon. 85 percent of the collections
so made are distributed to the Provinces of which 75 percent goes to West
Pakistan (which contributes about 85 percent of the revenues) and 25 percent
to the East. The remaining 15 percent is kept to meet the costs of the Cen-
tral Road Organization which administers the Fund and for surveys and researci-.
Funds may also be allocated to the Provinces as special grants for selected
works.
3.10      Tolls on bridges and ferries have a long history in the sub-contin-
ent. Most were abolished after the establishment of Pakistan but were re-
imposed in 1959 on new bridges, boat bridges and on "hill roads used by well-
to-do people."
3.11      The Government enacted enabling laws in 1962 and decided in princir:.T..
that all new limited access highways should be toll facilities.   It is propose~-
to use private firms, to be selected by public tender, to collect the tolls.
While there may be a case for collecting tolls at river crossings which offer
exceptional benefits to users, and where opportunities for avoidance are fez-,
the case for charging tolls on new highways is not clear. The imposition of
tolls would tend to discourage the use of the new roads and would encourage
motor traffic to remain on the old ones. The Government proposes to prohibir
the use of alternative roads by regulation, but no scheme for this has yet
been prepared and the enforcement problems appear to be considerable.
3.12      Toll revenues are intended to provide a direct source of funds to
the Iiighway Department, and it is presumably for this reason that the Depart-
ment favors toll financing. However, the same amounts could (if necessary)



- 10 -
be raised by a surcharge on motor fuel. This would not discriminate against
the users of new roads.  In their original economic and engineering feasi-
bility report on the Lahore-Lyallpur and Lahore-Sargodha-Khushab Roads, the
consultants, Louis Berger Inc. (US), recommended that neither road should be
subject to toll collection.
3.13      The Government has agreed to include the subject of road tolls for
study in the terms of reference for the proposed transDort study of W4est
Pakistan (para. 2.24), and. that the level of tolls, if any, will be deter-nined
after consultation wfith the Association in the light of the survey's recom-
mendations.
3.14      The main charges payable by road users are shown in Table 5.   Total
revenues collected in West Pakistan under the Motor Vehicle Act and from fue2
taxes are shown in Table 6. Revenues from these sources for 1966/67, net of
contributions to the Central Road Fund, were Rs. 412.1 million, and alloca-
tions to the Highway Department for the same year were Rs. 201.7 million.
It is apparent that paynents by road users, even at present traffic levels,
substantially exceed the exr.enditure on the road system in West Pakistan, an,d
would exceed it even if all imported items (incluiding fuel) were priced at e
reasonable "shadow" exchange rate.



- 11 -
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Descrintion
4.1       The proposed project consists of the following (see Map):
a.   Trunk Road Construction
(1)  A two-lane road from the new Ravi River bridge at
Lahore to Lyallpur via Sheikhupura (about 80 miles)
including a link road (about 8 miles) to the center
of the city of Lyallpur and in additon, an access
road (about 2 miles) to Shahkot.
(2) A two-lane road from the above new highway at
Sheikhupura to the vicinity of Sarrgodha together
with a connectinrr link to Sargodha (about 90 miles)
and including a major bridge across the Chenab River.
b.   General Consu'ltant Services
To assist the HighLway Department in continuing re-
organization and training f'or a three-year period.
C.   Other Consultant Services
(1) To prepare a transport coordination study for West
Pakistan.
(2)  To update the feasibility studies for the main trunk
road between Hyderabad and Multan (about 500 miles)
and prepare detailed design for construction of high
priority sections totaling about 250 miles.
(3)  To prepare a feasibility study including preliminary
engineering for the main trunk road between Lahore anid
Rawalpindi (about 200 miles).
d.   A Three-year Maintenance Program
(1)  To establish proper maintenance for the new Karachi-
Hyderabad Highway.
(2)  To improve workshop facilities in three regions.
(3) To introduce in the Central Region a pilot mainten-
ance scheme for the betterment and routine maintenance
of roads to modern standards.
e.   The Refunding of the Highwagy Engineering Pro4jject un der
Credit S-1 PAK.



- 12 -
B.   Trunk Poad Construction
4.2       The existing roads from Lahore to Lyallpur and the road from
Lahore to Sargodha were built to low standards. Pavement and shoulders are
inadequate in width and strength and the low profile and infrequent drainage
structures allow periodic flooding of some sections. Preliminary engineering,
and feasibility studies were vrepared for both oroject roads in 1964. Under
Credit S-1 PAK these studies have been updated and final designs have been
completed (see para. 1.5). Some nominal changes in the bidding documents
will be required due to changes in the project scope (paras. 4.6 and 4.8).
4.3       Standards used for design are listed in Table 7.   For both roads
the design provides two 12-ft lanes for motorized traffic (excent motorized
rickshawJs) and a separate road for animal, cart and local motor traffic
which is provided by the existing road along most of the length of the new
highways.  The Government plans to limit access and grane crossings will be
permitted only at designated points with grade separations via bridges or
culverts provided where warranted by cross traffic. The Government's view
was that tolls would be collected on both roads (para. 3.11), and the
designs include toll stations at suitable intervals. The added cost to the
project for these toll facilities would be negligible.
4.4       Right-of-way plans for both- roads are complete and the Govermnent
has started the acquisition program. They have given assurance that all
right-of-way will be acquired before January, 1969, which is about 3 months
in advance of the probable start of construction.
Lahore-Lyallpur Road (Man)
4.5       The project alignment traverses flat or very gently rolling agri-
cultural land.  Some water--logged areas and numerous irrigation canals are
crossed and there is seasonal flooding in the area of Ravi River near Laiore.
The design profile maintains the pavement above known flood levels and suf-
ficient flood relief and other drainage structures are provided to prevent
damage to the embankment. Departures from the existing road alignment are
required to avoid built-up areas, to meet prescribed design starndards and to
avoid areas of expensive embankment and drainage construction.
4.6       An analysis of traffic growth and road capacity for the road
section between Lahore and Sheikhupura shows that the capacity of two lanes
would not be reached before 1976, four years after the project is opened to
traffic. Therefore, initial construction of only two lanes is economically
justified for this section. The project is planned for ultimate expansion
to six lanes from Lahore to Sheikhupura and to four lanes from Sheikhupuira
to Lyallpur wqhen 4ustified by traffic increases, and sufficient right-of-way
for such expansion will be included in initial accuisition.
Sheikhupura-Sargodha Road (Map)
4.7       The aligrment for this road closely follows the existing road with
some deviation to provide good alignment and to bypass built-up areas. The
route passes through flat to gently rolling land devoted primarily to farmn-.



- 13 -
Areas adjacent to the main rivers are subJect to seasonal flooding but only a
few waterlogged areas are encountered.  The design profile maintains adequate
freeboard above known flood levels.
4.8       Final designs were prepared under Credit S-1 PAX for the route from
Sheikhupura to Khushab which is economically and technically Justified. How-
ever, the amount budgeted by the Association for this Credit is not sufficier±t
to build the full length in addition to the other items proposed for the pro-.
ject. After consultation with the Government it was decided to build the road
only to Sargodha at this time with a link road connecting it to the center of
the city. As only 10 percent of the traffic assigned to the Sheikhupura-
Sargodha section has an origin or destination beyond Sargodha, initial con-
struction of only that section will provide a completely viable facility.
The present road between Sargodha and Khushab can serve expected traffic for
a few more years if some improvements are made to the road and to the rail/
highway bridge over the Jhelum River at Khushab. Reconstruction of this road
is considered a much needed improvement, and it should be considered as of
high priority in Pakistan's next highway program.
C.   General Consultant Services
4.9       The Government is negotiating a new three-year contract w-ith Howard,
Needles, Tammen and Bergendoff (U.S.) to continue the services provided for
the past three and a half years.  The general consultant's contract includes
a sub-contract with Booz, Allen& Hamilton Incorporated (U.S.) to provide
management advice on the organization and operation of the Highway Department..
A local firm of management consultants would also be retained under a sub-
contract to augment the staff of the management consultants.
4.10      The Government, working with the general consultant, has developed
a program of goals to be accomplished in the next three years.  These are fol
improvements in administration, planning, design, construction and mainten-
ance of highways and form the basis for the scope of services for the new
contract.  They are considered realistic and necessary and take full advantop.
of past efforts. The emphasis will be on training; principally by work on
actual projects, with the general consultant acting in an advisory capacity.
The services to be provided are outlined in detail in Annex II and contain
two items on wrhich assurance from the Government has been obtained.  These
are (a) assurance that certain improvements in the organization of the
Highway Department will be accomplished within the time limits agreed upon;
and (b) assurance that facilities will be established and maintained to
collect and record traffic and other data.
D.   Other Consultant Services
Transport Coordination Study
4.11      As discussed in paras. 2.18 - 2.24, there is a need for improved
transport coordination in West Pakistan and accordingly, a coordination study
is included in the project. The purpose of this study is to provide the



- 14 -
Government with recommendations for the formulation of policies and programs
to coordinate and develop the various modes of transport in 'Jest Pakistarn in
the most efficient manner.
4.12      The study will include a broad analysis of (a) present and antici-
pated demand for transnort; (b) the economic and financial costs involved ij
the use of the different transport modes. (c) the appropriate technical and
economic criteria for investment decisions; and (d) policies for the taxation.
regulation and organization of the transport sector.  The study will take
into account existing studies, investment plans and policies and assess the
effects of its recommendations on them. It will not involve the preparation
of detailed investment programs for transport development but will indicate
the broad investment (including foreign exchange) requirements through 1975
that follow from the recommendations.
Studies and Engineering for the Main Trunk Road, Hyderabad-IOultan
4.13      The main trunk road Karachi-Hyderabad-'Mfultan-Lahore-Rawalpindi-
Peshawar-Torkham (Afghan border) forms tlhe backbone of the West Pakistan road
network (see Map). USAID assisted in financing the feasibility studies of
the road section between Karachi and Lahore, and followed with detailed engi-
neering and consideration of construction between Miultan and Lahore. Th
project of Credit 54-PAK (see para. 1.3) included detailed desian and con-
struction of the Karachi-Hyderabad section.  The road sections between
Hyderabad and Multan, about 510 miles in length, require immediate consider-
ation for imnrovement. For example, on the 270 miles between Hyderabad and
Reti, about 190 miles have only one lane (12 ft) paved, and not more than
about 4 miles have an adequate two-lane width (22-24 ft) of paverment.
4.14      Traffic volumes obtained in 1967 at various counting stations shower:
ADT volumes ranging from 500 to 1200 vehicles, indicating an annua]. traffic
growth of 12 to 20 percent since 1963.
4.15      The proposed alignment for a new hiq4ghway between Hyderabad and
1ultan would be about 470 miles in length and would shorten the existing ro '
by about 40 miles.  Due to its length and cost, construction of a new highwa,,-
should be undertaken in two stages. The proposed project therefore includes
(a) updating earlier feasibility studies end the selection of priorities of
sections for early detailed desig~n; and (b) preparing detailed design for
ccnstructicn of high priority sections totaling about 250 miles. The
general consultant will assist the Department in preparing outline plans
for short term improvements for the remaining low priority sections.
4.16      Due to the shortage in trained nersonnel, the Highway DeDartment
will need to engage consultants to carry out. the studies and the engineering
work and such services are included in the proposed project.



- 15 -
Studies for the Main Trunk Road, Lahore-Rawalpindi
4.17      Feeded improvements for the trunk road north from Lahore to
Rawalpindi should be studied.   Traffic counts in 1967 on various sections
of the road showed ADT volumes of 2000 to 3000 vehicles with over 50 nercent
commercial vehicles.  The Project includes preparation of a feasibility sttAr
including preliminary engineering for the sectlon between Lahore and Rawal-
pindi (about 200 miles) where detailed design and subsequently construction
should follow soon.
E.   Three-year Maintenance Program
4.18      The project includes a three-year highway maintenance program (a)
to establish proper maintenance for the larachi-Hyderabad Highway; (b) to
improve workshop facilities in the Central, Eastern and Southern Regions; and'
(c) to introduce in the Central Region a pilot scheme for the betterment and
routine maintenance of roads to Lmodern standards.
4.19      The three-year program would be the first stage of a more compre-
hensive and long-term maintenance program to cover all roads administered by
the Highway Department.   The general consultant will assist the Department
to implement the maintenance program, in part.icular (a) to improve the orgai>.
ization and management including detailed records of all maintenance costs
(see Annex II )  (b) to train Department personnel; (c) to select types anid
numbers of various kinds of equipment, vehicles, spare parts and tools for
procurement; (d) to prepare bidding documents for these procurements and to
select the most favorable bids; (e) to install workshop equipment and. to
assign mobile equipment for suitable field operation; and (f) to demonstrate
in the workshop and in the field a modern standard of performance.   The pro--
gram was discussed and agreed upon with the Government.
1.        Maintenance of the new Karachi-Hyderabad 1ighway
4.20      The new highway between Karachi and Hiyderabad financed under Credit
54-PAK, will be open for traffic at the end of 1969. There is a shortage of
suitable maintenance equipment in West Pakistan and the project, therefore,
includes the equipment required for the maintenance of this new highway.
4.21.          Not all the equipment will be continuously engaged in the
maintenance of the Karachi-Hyderabad Highway and part of the time it would *e-
used for maintenance of other roads in the region. The equipment would arri-'e
in late 1969 when the construction work is scheduled to be completed. The
project cost includes only the acquisition of the equipment. It does not in-
clude the recurrent expenditures for maintaining the highway; these would be
provided under the original assurance given by the Government tc the Associ-
ation that the highway would be properly maintained. The Government has
given assurance that the Karachi-Hlyderabad Highway will receive first prior-
ity on the use of this maintenance equicment.



- 16 -
2.        Improvement of WorkshoDs
4.22      Existing maintenance equipment is under-utilized because the workshor
repair facilities and stocks of spare parts are inadequaate. The project pro-
vides for procurement of workshop equipment and tools to pronerly equip three
regional workshops and eight divisional shops located along the main traffic
artery (Karachi-Hyderabad-Multan-Lahore-Rawalpindi) of West Pakistan, as well
as in the area of the new highways included in the project for construction
(see Map ).    It is estimated that US$200,000 would be required to completely
equip the three regional workshops and US$80,000 to equip eight divisional
shops.
4.23      Usable existing maintenance equipment has an at-cost value of about
US$3 million equivalent according to the general consultant's preliminary
assessment. It is important that this existing equipment be kept in good
operational condition and the project provides for the procurement of spare
parts for repairing and maintaining the equipment assigned to the above three
regional workshops. The project cost includes only the acquisition of the
spare parts and not the recurrent expenditures for operating the workshops and
installing the parts. The Government has given assurance that it will pro-
vide adequate workshop and warehouse space for the goods procured under the
project.
3.        Pilot Maintenance Scheme for Betterment and Routine Maintenance
of Roads
4.24      The pilot maintenancescheme would demonstrate the performance of
all principal operations in road maintenance as it is alpplicable to most of
the existing paved roads in West Pakistan.   The pilot scheme can be carried
out most effectively in the Central Region (Lahore) where it can be closely
supervised by the Highway Department and the general consultant. The first
stage of the scheme would utilize existing equipment and the results will
determine the subsequent scheduling of additional equipment to be purchased.
This equipment will be imported on a staggered schedule, and IDA approval
of the delivery of each order will be contingent on the ability of the main-
tenance organization to use it effectively.
4.25      The project includes several sets of equipment necessary to improve
roads to acceptable standards and to provide routine maintenance.   The vario< s
sets are listed in Table 8 with estimated project costs.
F.   Refunding of Credit S-1 PAK
4.26      The engineering project financed by Credit S-1 PAK is virtually coi.-
pleted, and has provided the design and cost estimates on which the construc-
tion work of this project is based. It is proposed to refund Credit S-1 PA@;
of US$ 1.0 million eauivalent under the present project.



- 17 -
G.   Execution
4.27      The Highway Departmernt of the C & W Department, Government of West
Pakistan, assisted by the general consultant will be responsible for the ex-
ecution of the project except for the transport study which will be the res-
ponsibility of the Central Government.   The services of the general consult-nt
will be required for a three-year period ccmmencing July 1, 1968. A priced
contract, including subcontracts with management consultants, is being nego-
tiated between the Highway Department and Howard, Needles, Tammen and
Bergendoff (U.S.). The Government has indicated that it will complete these
negotiations and intends to sign a contract for these consultant's service,
satisfactory to the Association prior to July 1, 1968. The signing of the
contract with the above consulting firm (or another one acceptable to the
Association) will be a condition of signing of the credit.
4.28      Construction will be by contractors under unit price contracts to
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association. The two highways have been]
divided in two sections each, in addition to the one river bridge, for the
purpose of bidding. Prequalified contractors will be invited to submit bids
for all five contracts simultaneously, and bidding would be permitted either
for each individual contract or for any combination. The road construction
work will be supervised by the consultants who prepared the designs and the
bridge construction will be supervised by the consultant who reviewed the
design prepared. by the Highway Department.  It is estimated that the contracts
for construction will be awarded by about March 1969 and work completed in
about 30 months, by late 1971.
4.29      Preliminary right-of-way plans for the roads and the major bridge
to be constructed under the project have been submitted by the design con-
sultants.  The Government has given assurance that all right-of-way will be
acquired by January, 1969.
4.30      The consulting services required for studies and design work will
be arranged on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The
Government, assisted by the Highway Department, the general consultant and
other advisors, will prepare the terms of reference and draft contracts in
1968, and it is estimated that by mid 1971 these consultants' assignments
will be completed.
4.31      With the two exceptions noted below, all equipment snd vehicles
will be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding. The
two exceptions are: the US$150,000 in spare parts for existing equipment
provided under the three-year maintenance program for which no other ex-
ternal financing is available; and the US$50,000 in office and engineering
equipment provided in the general consultant's contract which is of a specia-
lized nature or supplementary to present equipment and must be ordered from
specific or limited sources. Delivery of goods should start in early 1969
and continue until about late 1970.



- 18 -
4.32      The Government has confirmed the proposed procurement procedure
and time schedule mentioned above for the project items.
H.   Cost Estimate and Financing
4.33      Cost estimates for construction works included in the project are
based on unit prices of similar contracts under execution or recently com-
pleted, and on detailed engineering being completed by consultants. The costs
of consultants' services are based on priced offers or estimates prepared by
consultants. All cost estimates were confirmed by the Government and re-
viewed by the Association.
4.34      The foreign currency ccmponent of the highway construction cost is
estimated by IDA at 53 percent on the basis of analyses made by consultants.
The foreign exchange component for construction of the major bridge is 33
percent. The foreign exchange cost of consulting services is estimated at
percentages ranging from 45 to 75 percent; the wide range results from the
variety of services to be provided and the higher values are for work on
which more expatriates will be required.
4.35      A 10 percent contingency allowance has been provided for possible
increase in estimated physical quantities during construction and for unfore-
seen requirements of engineering work. A price escalation contingency of 5
percent is deemed adequate over the expected 30 months of the construction
work and a 10 percent escalation contingency is allowed for the equipment.
4.36      The estimated project cost and the foreign currency component are
as follows:



- 19 -
(US$ Milli.on Equivalent)
Local          Foreign          Total
Trunk Road Construction
Lahore-Lyallpur Road              13.12 1/        11.32          21.44
Sheikhupura-Sargodha Road         11.27 1/        10.75          22.02
Chenab River Bridge                3.94            1.94           5.88
Construction Supervision           1.39            0.75           2.14
Contingencies                     14.32            3.93          _8.25
Sub-Total                 34.04           28.69          62.73
General Consultant Services
Services and Equipment             1.60            1.34 2/        2.94
Contingencies                      0.16            0.14           0.30
Sub-Total                  1.76            1.48           3.24
Other Consultant Services
Transnort Study                    0.27            0.45           0.72
Studies for Hyderabad-Mlultan Rod. 1.40            1.40           2.80
Studies for Lahore-Rawalpindi Rd. 0.20             0.20           o.40
Contingencies                      0.19            0.21           0.40
Sub-Total                 2.06             2.26           4.32
Three-Year Maintenance Program
Maintenance Equipment for
Karachi-Hyderabad Road          0.04            0.22           0.26
Improvement of Workshops           0.08            0.43           0.51
Pilot Maintenance Scheme           2.00            1.68           3.68
Contingencies                      0.21            0.24           o.45
Sub-Total                 2.33             2.57           4.90
Refund of Credit S-1 PAK             0               1.00           1.00
Project Total             4o.19           36.00           76.19
1/   Includes right-of-way cost of US$3.09 million equivalent for Lahore-
Lyallpur; and US$1.72 million equivalent for Sheikhupura-Sargodha.
2/   Includes US$0.05 million for office and engineering equipment.



- 20 -
4.37      Tne Government has confirmed the above cost estimate and given
assurance that adeauate funds will be available to carry out the project.
The Government has furnished adequate funds on previous loans/credits.
4.38      As the proposed credit will be signed after June 30, 1968, the
Government has agreed to provide interim financing of some nominal costs
incurred after that date and until the credit becomes effec-tive. IDA retro-
active participation in such costs would be about US$500,000 for the last
half of 1968 for consultants' services and some spare parts for maintenance
equipment.
4.39      Disbursements from the proposed credit for construction contracts
will be based on percentages related to the presently estimated foreign
exchange component.  If such costs are higher than estimated, the Association
may, at its option, establish such lower percentage as will permit disburse-
ments to be spread throughout the oroject period.   Disbursements for consult--
ing services and procurement of equipment will be made against the actual
foreign exchange costs. Any balance of the credit remaining undisbursed
after completion of the project will be cancelled. Estimated disbursemenris
of the proposed credit including the full US"1.0 million refunding of Credit
S-1 PAK as soon as this credit is made effective, are as followfs (in US*
million equivalent):
Calendar Year       1968      1969      1970     1_71       1972   Total
Disbursement         1.5       9.5      17.0       5.8       2.2     36.0



- 21 -
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Trunk Road Construction
a.   General
5.1       Road traffic is increasing rapidly in West Pakistan while the qual-
ity of the roads remains low. Many rural through roads in West Pakistan have
a paved strip designed to carry one lane of traffic only. When vehic'es pa3s
or overtake, one or both have to leave the paved strip and travel on the
shoulder with consequent damage to both roads and vehicles.   By paying sub-
stantially more in taxation than is currently being spent on constructing and
maintaining the road system, road users indicate an economic demand for sub-
stantial road imurovements including two full traffic lanes on many routes of
the network. This project is designed to provide 170 miles of such roads.
5.2       A second ma,jor weakness of the road system arises from its use by
mixed traffic.  Existing rural roads are generally all-nurpose, shared by
motor vehicles, bullock carts, motorized rickshaws, camel trains, etc.
Animal drawn traffic drastically reduces the capacity of a road to carrv
motorized traffic, particularly if the road lias only one paved lane.   Since
animal drawm traffic is expected to continue to have an -mportant function
for many years in West Pakistan, the most promising way of dealing with th 
problem is by segregating it from the motor vehicle flow.   This requires the
provision of separate roads for motorized traffic, and conversely (particu-
larly in market areas) the reservation of some roads primarily for animal
drawn and pedestrian traffic.
5.3       The problem of sevarating motorized from animal traffic and pro-
viding an adequate track for each can be anDroached in two ways:   eithier by
providing new roads for motor vehicles only and retaining the existing rcals
for animal, slow moving, and local motorized traffic; or else by retaining
the existing roads for motorized traffic and providing new roads (of a lowe:r
standard) for animals and slow traffic.
5.4       In the case of West Pakistan the second course is considered to be
impracticable for two reasons: firstly, because the existing roads (as
mentioned in para 3.2) cannot be made suitable for modern motorized traffic
without extensive rebuilding; and secondly, because there are practical dif-
ficulties in closing to animal traffic roads that have been used by it for
many years. For these reasons it is proposed to construct two-lane roads
with few access points for the sole use of motorizedi traffic (excluding motor-
ized rickshaws) from Lahore to Lyallpur, and from Sheikhupura to Sargodha.
b.   Project Area
5.5       The proposed highway improvements will directly benefit areas cov-
ered by the administrative divisions of Sargodha and Lahore. These two ad-
jacent divisions (total area: 26,000 square miles or slightly more than t1hat
of Belgium and the Netherlands combined) are geographically unified and eco-
nomically complementary. Details of the population and economic activity ill
the area of the project roads are given in Annex III.



- 22 -
c.   Traffic
5.6       Observations made in the project area indicate that on one of the
busiest roads one third of the traffic is non-motorized. Of the motorized
traffic, 29 percent consists of passenger cars, 23 percent of buses, 33 per-
cent of trucks and 15 percent of rickshaws and motorcycles. On the less
busy roads there is a larger proportion of animal drawn traffic and a smaller
proportion of passenger cars. Flows of motorized traffic on main rural roads
in 1967 varied from 1,500 to 3,500 passenger car units (pcu) per day.
5.7       In 1963 Louis Berger Inc. predicted. a continuing traffic growth
rate of 15 percent per year in the project area. Counts carried out by both
the consultants who updated his analysis in 1967 generally supported this
prediction, except for the Lahore-Sheikhupura section where annual growth
rates of 30 percent for trucks and cars, 13 percent for buses, and 49 percent
for motorcycles and motorized rickshaws were observed.
5.8       It is difficult to assess the significance of this sudden growth
without further information. In 1967 the consultants assumed annual growtth
rates of 15 percent from 1967 through 19h, and 10 percent from 1975 througl
1985. For the purpose of this appraisal a 15 percent growth rate is assumed
only to 1971. Thereafter a grouxth rate of 10 percent is assumed until eitiler
1985 or until traffic flow exceeds 15,000 pcui per day, whichever is the
earlier.
d.   Assessment of Benefits
5.9       Benefits have been calculated on a "with and without" basis, by
comparing conditions on the proposed new road with the conditions that would
obtain if the existing road were to carry the increased traffic without majcr
improvement. The following benefits can be quantified:
(a)  Savings in vehicle operating costs.
(b) Benefits to generated traffic.
Savings in Vehicle Operating Costs
5.10      The Road Research Laboratory in Lahore considers that the riding
quality of the existing roads in the project area is between that of a gravel
and an earth road.  On the basis of a recent Bank study l/   it is possible
to estimate the likely savings resulting from providing good paved roads.
These savings were compared with those used by the consultants in their calcu-
lation. Time of drivers and car passengers, but not of bus passengers, was
allowed for.
1/   Jan de Weille.  "Quantification of Road User Savings" World Bank Staff
Occasional Papers No. 2.



- 23 -
5.11      T'e comparison suggested that the consultants' figures of savings
were high for private cars and low for commercial vehicles. In view of the
predominance of commercial vehicles (which are responsible for over 80 per-
cent of the benefits) it was assumied that, overall, the consultarts' figures
are conservative and acceptable.
5.12      As the project would involve a considerable route shortening, (2'7
miles), there would be savings in total vehicle operating costs, additional
to savings from reduced costs on improved roads. Overall, the figures used.
by the consultants were conservative and acceptable.
Benefits to Generated Traffic
5.13      As there are already two direct routes connecting Lyallpur with
Lahore, there appears to be no basis for assuming that the road improvement
will generate substantial traffic which would not have appeared but for the
improvement. But the road from. Lahore to Sar-odha, and the new bridge over
the Chenab River, will result in a sharp drop in transport costs between
Lahore and the agricultural area to the west of the river and some develop-.
ment traffic may be expected.   The consultent assumed that this might total
30 percent of existing traffic and would develop in equal increments over a
period of five years. This assumption is used in the analysis, such traffic
being credited with half the unit benefits accruing to the existine traff'ic.
e.   Road _Maintenance Costs
5.14      According to figures obtained from the Highway DTepartment, the
amounts spent on special repairs to existing roads averaged Rs. 5,110 per
mile per year, exclusive of equipment depreciation.   These amounts were addi-
tional to the expenditure on routine maintenance which average abouit Rs. 2,LQ10
per mile per year. As maintenance costs on the new roads are expected to be!
about Rs. 5,000 (US$1,050) per mile per year, it may be assumed that the pro-
ject will not increase maintenance expenditures.
f.   The Effect of Tolls
5.15      The Government has given no indication of' the level of the tclls
it wishes to impose, nor of the mechanics of collection.   To cover the costs
of the highways it would be necessary to charge about US¢ 1 per pcu per mi7e,
i.e. US¢ 1 for a private car and US¢ 21½ for an average commercial vehicle.
Such a toll could equal a third or half the benefits to road users or 10-15
percent of their costs. Even a toll of that magnitude would leave most road
users the bulk of their savings and would be unlikely to deter those whose tse
of the new roads would entail no additional journey costs.   The tolls could,
however, deter certain types of users: firstly, those whose routes do not
coincide with the new roads, and vho would have to make detours to get on
them. The combination of detours and tolls could make the new roads uneco-
nomical for certain journeys. Secondly, experience from other countries
suggests that some truck drivers may pref'er to pocket the toll fees provided
by the employers and to use the free routes.



- 24 -
5.16      Factors such as these would inevitably have some effect on the rate
of traffic growth on the project roads.  But so long as tolls do not exceed
US} 1 per pcu per mile they would be uzl.kely to affect the rates of return.
g.   Rates of Return
5.17      On the basis of the foregoing assumntions, and of the costs listed
in para. h.36 the first year benefits and internal rates of return for the
period 1:71 to 1995 are tabulated in Table 9.  The rates of return for the
Lahore-Lyallpur and Sheikhunura-Sargodha roads are 19 percent and 16 percent
respectively. In view of the conservative assumptions, and the exclusion of
"intangible" savings, these rates orobably underestimate the benefits frcm
the project roads and amply Justify the proposal to construct them.
B.   Consultant Studies
5.18      There is an urgent need to review and resolve a number of major
transport coordination problems in West Pakistan, some of which were touch'es
upon in Sections 2 and 3.  The transport coordination survey, which was or,-
inally proposed by the Central Government, should give the necessary guidance
and early implementation is recommended.  At us'tS8o,ooo, its cost is 0.16
percent of West Pakistan's allocation for -road and railway development enorDea-
diture in the current five year plan.
5.19      As schemes selected for feasibilitty study are the most likely to gtO
forward to completion, it is imnortant to identify and pick out the best at
an early stage.  No doubt t1he improvement of the 1,100 mile mair route Karaobz
Mlultan-Lahore-Rawalpindi-Peshawqar-Torkham to modern standards would receive
high priority under any reasonable transport plan for West Pakistan.   The
priority of this main route was emnhasized in the extensi-ve transport surve-
undertaken with USAID assistance by Transportation Consultants Inc. (US) in
1961/62. Scme prelirinary investigation of narticular sections was underth-en
by a number of US consultants, financed by PL-480 counterpart funds.   It is
proposed as part of the project to investigate these and other sections in
more detail and on the basis of more up-to-date information. The studies a}:e
considered essential for the developrment of West Palkistan's road network.
In view of the limited funds airailable it is necessary to carry ouit the wor'
by stages and to strengthen the weakest 'li nks as soon as possible. The pro-
.ject is designed to provide a scheme of priorities for the improvement of tt-e
route, with estimates of comparative rates of return.
C.   Three-Year Maintenance Program
5.20      Expenditure on road maintenance results in benefits to road users
in the form of redueed travel costs.  It can also bring about a reduction i-
the total cost of road provision. Although total maintenance allocaticns
are known, there is hardly any information about the actual costs of main-
taining different kinds of roads, and no information at all about the likely
benefits. The maintenance proJect is designed to obtain such information by
means of pilot projects. In view of the considerable amounts allocated to
maintenance (Table 4), the gathering of such information on costs and bene-fits
must be considered an important end urgent task.



- 25 -
5.21      The Association has a special interest in the preservation of roads
it helped to finance. Nlot only should it assist in the provision of meinte--
nance facilities; it should require that they be efficiently applied to the
Karachi-Hyderabad Road, and to any other road projects built with its assist-
ance. The provision of maintenance equipment and workshops should result in
substantial savings, and is considered indispensable to the program.



- 26 -
6. COUCLUS TONS A11D RECODMENDATIONS
6.1       The proposed road construction would substantially improve road
transnortation in the r ahore area of 'West Pakistan.  It is well planned,
technically feasible and would yield a satisfactory economic return or. the
investment from lower transport costs alone.   The general consultant's ad-
visory services would assist the Government in reor,ganizing the Highway De-
partment and training its personnel.   The transport survey would provide the
basis for more effective transport coordination and the studies and engineer-
ing are a necessary base for future construction projects. The maintenance
program is a first practical step to improve road maintenance to modern stan-
dards in W4est Pakistan.
6.2       The cost estimates are soundly based and adequate allowrances for
contingencies have been provided. The Association is proposing to finance
the foreign exchange cost of the project, which amounts to about 47 percent
of the total cost. The Government would provide the remaining amount froz~
local resources.
6.3       During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following principal points: (i) the transport coordination study in West
Pakistan would be expedited (paras. 2.24 and 3.13) (ii) the organization of
the Highway Department would be further improved (para. 4.10)   (iii) the
services of the general consultant would be continued (para. 4.27); and (iv)
procurement of special equipTment and spare -arts totaling $200,000 would be
exemrpt from international competitive bidding (para. 4.31).
6.4       A condition of signing of the credit would be the signing of a
contract between the Government and the general consultant, or another con-
sulting firm acceptable to the Association (para. 4.27).
6.5       A small amount of retroactive financing will be required as the
credit will be signed after June 30, 1968 (para. 4.38).
6.6       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$36.0 million to the Government of Pakistan.
June 12, 1968



AnTEX I
)J.E,ST PAKISTAN
APPRPAISAL OF A SECOND HIGMTHY PROJECT
Current Status of Highway Department
a. Administration and Planning
1,        Prior to 1967 the Buildings and Roads (B & R) Department of the
C & W Department was responsible for the plann.ing, design, construction and
maintenance of most roads in the Province. It had similar responsibilities
for public buildings and as a result most B & R personnel were involved in
both activities simultaneously. With the exception of bridge design, soils
and materials testing and the administration of foreign-aided highway works,
which were handled at B & R headquarters at Lahore, all other functions re-
lated to roads were delegated to five regional organizations which, in turn,
wiere further subdivided on a geographic basis0 The entire B & R organization
was outdated, unwieldy and could not operate in an efficient, functional
manner. The lack of planning has been one of the major weaknesses of the
organization.  There were no workable programs for collection of basic data
such as traffic volumes, road inventories, etc., which are fundamental to
proper highway planning,
2.        The general consultant, retained under Credit 5h-PUK (see para 1.2),
recommended splitting the B & R Department and creating a new highwJay depart-
ment organized along functional lines which wculd renain under the adminis-
trative control of the C & W Department0  The attached chart shows the new
organizational structure for headqualters and a typical region which was
adopted in principal by the Government on October I, 1967. The diTision of
physical assets between the Highway Department and the residual Building
Department has been completed. The general consultant has issued interim
reports on the master plan for roads which set up road classifications,
establish basic performance criteria for the various classes and present a
tentative plan for a primary and secondary road system. A Province-wide
traffic counting program has been established and periodic traffic maps
have been issued, A program of road and bridge inventory has been started
and lilited origin and destination surveys have been undertaken.
3.        Further work by the general consultant is required to assist in
implementing the new organization, establishing needed administrative and
budgetary controls, and training the administrative staff of the new depart-
ment.  The general consultant will also be needed to aid in organizing the
planning sections, training local staff in proper planning procedures and
establishing continuing programs for data collection and analysis.
b. _igineering and Construction
4.        In the past all highway design work was done in the regions.,  Recently
bridge design has successfully been concentrated at Department headquarters
and has reached a fair level of competence, However, little progress in
improving road design practices and procedures has been attained and most



road desigr is still done in the field at levels well belmf the regional
headquarters. With few exceptions roads are constructed almost entirely
with hand labor,equipment being limited to few essential units such as
rollers and trucks. This often produces results below acceptable
standards. The Karachi-Hyderabad highway and the three major river bridges
included in Credit 54-PAK are being built by international contractors
employing modern construction methods and equipment. Only a few qualified
and experienced 'Local contractors exist and in most cases control and direction
of construction are left to Department staff who are often not qualified
for this work.
5.        The general consultants have completed a code of practice for
bridge design,, and drafts of design and plan preparation manuals for bridges
and roads are well advanced. Standard designs and drawings, design aids
and typical plans have been essentially completed as have drafts of stand-
ards specifications and contract documents and a manual of field superv:si;on
of construction. Two reports have been issued covering an appraisal of the
present Road Research Laboratory and detailed recommendations for additional
equipment and personnel training. The Goverrnnent has obtained some con-
struction equipment from various sources and have assigned Department staff to
assist in construction supervision on the Karachi Hyderabad road and on t.he
three major river bridges.
6.        The Government needs further assistance from the general consul-
tant to set up modern design sections and implement training in actua'l design
and plan preparation. Field training of laboratory personnel needs to be
accelerated so that regional design support laboratories can be placed in
operation. The new construction sections at headquarters and in the regions
must be organized and field training started.
c. Maintenance
7.        Road maintenance has been and will continue to be carried cut by
the regions. Road maintenance has been badly managed and performed and witl
few exceptions has failed to maintain roads in their original condit.on much
less make needed improvements. Improper design and construLction practices
in the past and substantial increases in traffic volumes during recent years
have presented maintenance forces with an almost impossible job.
8.        For the most part maintenance is done by hand labor and what
equipment is utilized is generally antiquated and improperly used.  Assigiiing
maintenance labor on a "men per mile" basis with little consideration of road
type and condition has produced badly unbalanced results. Maintenance funds
are allocated on the basis of reported mileage of roads and to provide equal
distribution by geographic areas. Total maintenance allocations over the
past several years (Table 4) have generally proven inadequate both for
urgently needed betterment and for routine maintenance.
9.        Regional and field shops have not been developed effectively.  Sparc
parts are in short supply and parts inventories have been inadequate.



A=DEhX T
10.       The impact of the new Highway Department organization could not
yet be felt to any major degree in maintenance operations. The general ,on-
sultant, working with Department forces, has completed inventories for
maintenanice equipment and machinery and for spare parts throughout the
Province. TWo reports covering an analysis of past maintenance operations
and detailed recommendations for reorganization of maintenance operations
have been issued.  A basic manual covering maintenance practices has also
been issued.



ANNEX II
WEST PAKISTAN
APPIIASAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Detailed Outline of
General Consultant Services
1.        Administration:  The Highway Departmvent will be assisted in a
continuing program, of implementation and evaluation of the new organization
and preparation of a management control system with assistance in the
installation and expansion of this system. The Government has agreed with
the following principal improvements:
a. Provide joint accommodations based on functional assignments
for the Highway Department and the general consultant staffs.
Existing accommodations should be utilized as quickly as
possible in this merging of functions and efforts will be
continued to provide a suitable building for the Department
headquarters by June 30, 1970.
b. The sections of the Department headquarters (see Chart)
should be established and staf'ed by January 1, 1969.
c. By April 1, 1969, establish appropriate measures to recruit
and to retain qualified staff at Departm,en-t headquarters.
d.  Completely sep?rate by June 30, 1970, tlhe cadre of the
previous Buildings and Roads Department between Highways and
Buildings.
e.  Provide the head of the Highway Department with adequate
authority to deal expeditiously with the irnplementation of
technical and budgetary mat-ters of approved projects and
programs.
2.        Planningz:  A separat-e planning section will be established at
Department headquarters and proper planning and traffic analysis techniques
will be initiated on all new projects.  Work Till be continued on the
development of a master plan for highways in close cooperation with the
Planning and Development Department and other planning agencies.   Training
will be expanded through demonstration projects and planning sections will
be established in the regions as soon as trained staff becomes available.
The Government has agreed that facilities will be established and maintained
to collect and record data required to assess the technical, economic and
financial aspects of the West Pakistan highway system.



ANNEX II
Page 2
3.        Design:  Initial work will be directed towards strengthening
the review and advisory capacity of the central bridge design section
and the estatblishment of a central highway design section. Rmphasis will
be on training through demonstration projects and modern standards and
design techniques will be introduced. Regional design sections will be
strengthened and appropriate projects will be undervaken by them as soon
as practical.
4.        Construction: A construction section will be established
immediately at Departrnent headquarters and trained in modern testing,
construction control, and record keeping. Much of this training will be
on actual work in the field. As trained staff becomes available,
regional construction sections will be formed and divorced from rnainte-
nance operations as quickly as possible. Standard specifications, contract
forms and contractor prequalification requirements will be introduced con-
currently with the forrmation and training of all construction sections.
5.        Maintenance:  In this category the consultant's staff will
assist in the organization and conduct of the three-year maintenance
program which is described in more detail in paras. 4 18 - 4.25.
6.        Laboratory Facilities: A full time exTpatriate adcIisor provided
under the Colombo Plan is presently assigned to the Central Laboratory
in Lahore.  It is expected that this advisor will be available for about
three additional years and will assist in the moderiL zation and equipping
of the Central Laboratory and the training of staff via work in support
of actual desion and construction projects.  Field laboratories will be
planned for each regiorn and put into operation when justified by work load
and as trained staff and equipment become available. The general con-
sultant will coordinate this work with the development of other headquarters
and regional sections and will provide additional expatriate staff if re-
quired.



AIThMEX III
qEST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A OECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Population and Economic ActivitY
In the Project Area
1.        About 13.5 million people (or about that of the Netherlands)
live in the project area. It is one of West Pakistan's most congested
population centers; According to the 1961 census, there were 724 persons
per square mile in the Lahore Division and 350 in the Sargodha Division,
compared with 138 persons per square mile for West Pakistan as a whole.
The ratio of urban to rural population in the area is nearly twice the
average for West Pakistan. The average income is estimated to be 20
percent higher than the average in the Province.  To a large extent, this
is due to the relatively high degree of industrialization, but the high
agricultural productivity h<as also had an effect.
2.        The Sargodha Division, composed of the Districts of Lyallpur,
Jhang, Sargodha and Yianwali, lies in the north central part of West
Pakistan. It includes many different regions varying from the recently
settled lands in the east, to the desert and mountains west of the Chenab
River. Vdianali District includes most of the Thal Desert with its spairse
population.
3.        The Division is based on an agricultural economy, except for thie
heavily industrialized areas inmtediately around Lyallpur and Mian-uali-
Daudkhel. Much of the farming is on land irrigated and settled during the
present century. The main crops are cotton, wheat and sugarcane. Daudkhel,
a city in the northwest corner of the Mianvali District, has four heavy
industries including a cement plant, a fertilizer plant, a chemical and dye
plant and a penicillin factory. Nearby are some coal and salt mines,
including the ilakenial Collieries.
4.        The major industrial area is around Lapur (population approxi-
mately 500,000). Situated near both the center of the northern part of the
country and in the heart of a rich farming area, Lyallpur has become heavily
industrialized and has experienced a very rapid growth rate in agricultural
processing industries such as textiles, ginn:1ig, vegetable oils, flour and
sugar mills. From 19h1 to 1961 its population increased five-fold and it
is now the third largest city in the Province.
5.        The Lahore Division, composed of the Districts of Gujranwala,
Lahore, Sheikhupura and Sailkot, is the northeastern sector of West Pakistan.
Some of the best agricultural lands and some of the heaviest industrialized
areas in West Pakistan are in Lahore Division. Rice, sugamcane, wheat and
cotton are the main crops.



Ak NEX III
Pagge 2
6.        Along with the farming area there is large concentration of
industry in and around Lahore and north along the Grand Trunk Road through
Gujranwala. The larger industrial concerns include metal processing plants,
steel re-rolling mills, chemical industries, film industries and flour and
cotton mills. Because of Lahore's favorable location in the center of an
important market and as a focal point for transport, industrial activity is
expected to expand rapidly.
7.        Lahore (population approximnately 1.5 million) is the capital and
second largest city in West Pakistan. It ranks second only to Karachi as
a commercial, business and industrial center. With its 29 colleges and
universities, it is the Province's undisputed leader in education and cul-
tural activities. Most of the area around Lahore is socially and economi-
cally integrated with the city itself.
8.        SheikhiRpura, 22 miles west of Lahore) lies at the junction of
the Lahore-Khushab and Lahore-Lyallpur Roads. Because of its location, the
marlcet in Sheikhupura serves an area traversed by both highways to be con-
structed in the project. The main crops produced in the vicinity include
rice, wheat and cotton. Other crops brought to the market are sugarcane,
gram, maize, barley and fodder.  This is also a major market for firewood,
which is supplied to all cities and towns in the area. Eccept for rice,
which is procured by the Governaient and shipped by rail, all other crops
are generally trucked. The Government is enicouraging industrial develcp-
ment in Sheikhupura and two fertilizer plants (in which the World Bank
Group is interested) are to be located there.
9.        Sargodha (population approxirnately 150,00 ) is located scme 105
miles west of Lahore on the Lahore-Khushab Road. Cotton and wheat are the
two most important products marketed there. In addition, smaller quantities
of maize, rice, sugarcane and potatoes were also marketed. nie area north
of Sargodha is known for the large orar-ge groves which supply the bulk of
organges consumed in West Pakistan.  Beside being an agricultural market,
Sargodha is increasing in significance as an industrial center. A textile
mill employing 4,000 workers is located there as are some 12 cotton plants.
Sargodha is also the largest soap manufacturing center in West Pakistan
accounting for over one-half of tlhe Province's soap output.



TABLE 1
WEST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHIWAY PROJECT
Commercial Vehicles "On Road"!'
Fiscal
Year            Buses            Trucks
1960/61         7,050             12,791
1961/62         7,932             14,4h
1962/63         6,89              1Lh,823
1963/64         7,39h             17,086
196V/65         7,933             16,906
1965/66        (8,oOO02/          20,326
1966/67        (8,500)2-'        (22,ooj
1/ "On Road" includes those vehicles which pay taxes
and those  which  are exempt (e.g.    GovenmelIt vehicles);
the latter, however, is only a rough estimate. The Bureau of
Statistics table does not give the bus fleet for 1965/66; some
sources give the 1965/66 bus fleet at about 7,500 but this seems
unlikely in view of the level of new registrations in 1965/66.
2/ IDA estimate
Source: Pakistan Bureau of Statistics,



TABLE 2
WEST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HTGHWAY PROJECT
Fuel Consumption by Road Vehicles in West Pakistan
(Millions of Im;perial GallonsT
Fiscal        Motor Spirit       High Speed
Year          (Gasoline)        Diesel Oil
1963/64            68.o              87.6
1964/65            68.3             131.0
19651/66           86.5             115.6
1966/67            80.7             130.3
Source: Transport Planning Cejl, Lahore



TABLE 3
WEST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Development of Paved Road Network
Approximate Length
Year                in Miles
1947                  5,050
1950                  5,620
1955                  7,980
1960                  8,710
1961                  8,830
1962                  9,000
1963                  9,330
196h                  9,450
1965                 10,010
1966                 10,130
1967                 10,280



TABLE L
IEST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Provincial and Central Road Allocations
(Millions of Rupees)
(a)  Expenditure from Provincial Funds
Fiscal
Year     Construction    Maintenance   Adrinistraticn    Total
1963/6b         56.9           38.9            8.7        10i.5
1964/65         80.14          48.6            9.6        138.6
1965/66         65.2           35.5            9.7        110.4
1966/67        142.4           50.0            9.3        201.7
(b) ExDenditure from Central Road Fund
Fiscal
Year      Construction                                    Total
1963/6h          7.0                                        7.0
196h/65         14.3                                       114.3
1965/66          6.1                                        6.1
1966/67         58.2                                       58.2
Source: (a) Transport Planning Cell, Lahore
(b)  Government of Pakistan, "The Budget in Brief 1967-68"1



TABLE 5
IEST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHIAY PROJECT
Vehicle Taxation
(Excluding Contribution to Central Road Fund)
Fuel Taxes    - Rs 2.49 (us $0.52)I/per Imp. Gal. for Gasoline
Rs 1.35 (US $0.28) per Imp. Gal. for Diesel Oil
Lubricant Tax - Rs 1.20 (US $0.25) per Imp. Gal.
Tire Tax      -  2.3% ad valorum
License Fees  - Range from Rs 150 (US $32 to Rs 1,500 (US $316)
per year depending on velicle size
Import Duty     56% ad valorum for trucks and buses
Range of 35% to 266% and valorum for private cars
1/   Excise Duty            Rs 2.00
Sales Tax                 0.30
Defense Surcharge         0.50
2.80
Less Contribution
to Central Road Fund     0.31
iJet Total   Rs 2.49
Source: Transport Planning Cell, Lahore



TABLE 6
WEST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHUAY PROJECT
Revenues Coll cted Under M1otor
Vehicles Acd2and Fuel Taxes/
(Iillions of Rupees)
Tax on
Fiscal      Motor Vehicle       Tax on       High Speed
Year            Act           Gasoline       Diesel Oil      Total
1963/64          39.3             113.6           79.8        232.7
196h/65          48.6             111.8          128.7        289.1
1965/66          63.5             175.3          144.1         382.9
1966/67          64.6             213.1          161.0         438.7
- Mainly quarterly license fees.
2/
2 Excise Duty, Sales Tax and Defense Surcharge
Sources: Government of Wlest Pakistan: Ihite Paper 1967/68
Transport Planning Cell, Lahoro



TABLE 7
WEST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Two-lane
Main Trunk Highways to be Constructed
1. Minimum right-of-way width (including future
expansion to 4-lane divided highway)                                             275 ft.
2. Design speed                                                                         70 mph
3. Maximum gradient                                                                      4%
4. Desirable minimum horizontal curve                                                2,500 ft.
5. Pavement width of (a) the road                                                       24 ft.
(b) each shoulder                                                  8 ft.
6. Shoulder width                                                                       10 ft.
7. Road pavement in following courses:
(a)  cement stabilized sub-base over
compacted embankment                                                            9 ins.
(b) bitumen bound base                                                               4 ins.
(c)  asphalt concrete surface                                                        2 ins.
8. Shoulder pavement in following courses:
(a) drainage layer of crushed overburnt
bricks on compacted fill                                                        4 ins.
(b)  cement stabilized base                                                          6 ins.
(c) two coats bituminous surface treatment
9.  Pavement cross slope                                                                 2% - 3%
10. Maximum superelevation                                                                8%
11. Normal median width edge to edge of pavement
for future second two-lane carriageway                                            40 ft.
12.  Fill slope (a) up to 9 ft. height                                                  4:1
(b) over 9 ft. height                                                   2:1
13. Minimum free board above high flood level
(a)  for pavement                                                                    2 ft.
(b)  for bridges                                                                     3 ft.
14. Maximum axle load                                                                18,000 lbs.
15.  Bridge design loading                                                           West Pakistan
Code of Practice
1967
16. Headroom overbridging
(a)  major roads                                                              16 ft. 6 ins.
(b)  minor roads                                                              14 ft. 6 ins.
(c)  village roads                                                            12 ft. 0 ins.
(d)  cattle and pedestrian crossing                                           10 ft. 0 ins.
(e)  railway sections to be electrified                                       19 ft. 3 ins.
(f)  other railway sections                                                   17 ft. 9 ins.



WEST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Maintenance Equipment and Cost-/
US  Thousana Equivalent)
Assembling, Local
Paragraphs       Category of Main-                              Equipment Spread    Assembling and     Transport, and      Total     Proposed IlA
of Rewort        tenance Program               Types            No.    Unit Cost    LocaLl Transport   Operating Cost      Coast 2/  Participation
4.20, 4.21    1. Karachi-Hyderabad     Routine Maintenance       1        220              40 O                             260           220
Road
4.22, 4.23    2. Workshop improve-     (a) Regional Workshops    3         67              40                 -             240           200
ment
(b) Divisional Shops      8         10              10                 -              90            80
(c) Spare parts for                                   2/
existing Equipment    -         -               30-                _             180           150
SUB-TOTAL                                       80                 -             510           43°
4.24, 4.25    3. Pilot maintenance     (a) Betterment work
scheme
(i) Basic spread     3       240               -               (1,050        (1,890           720
(ii) Special spread   1        120              -                             C                120
(b) Resurfacing work      3        130              -                  870         1,260           390
(c) Routine maintenance   2        225              80                 -             530           450
SUB-TOTAL                                       80               1, 920        3,680         1,680
TOTAL                                          200               1 92&-         . ,
- Including spare parts in an amount of 15% of the equipment value
2/
2   Local transport cost only
31 Excluding import duty and taxes.



,EST PAKISTA1N
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND0 HIGHW.!AY PROJECT
Sumnary of Costs, Benefits, and Rates of Return
(llillion~s of US$)
Lahore-Lyallpur Road            3heikhupura-Sargodha Road   Both
(Iric. Chenab Bridge)   Roads
Lahore-      Sheikhioura-
Sheikhunoura     Lyallpur      Total
Total Cost                               9.82           19.63        29.145              33.28            62.73
1st Year Average Daily Traffic         6,100 pcu      5,200 pcu                        2,800 pcu
1st Year Benefit                         0.889          2,630        3.519                2.777            6.153
Assumed Life                           25 Years       25 Years                          25 Years
Traffic Growth Period                   9 Years       11 Years        19%               15 Years
Internal Rate of Return                   14%            21%                               16%             17



CHART
WEST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
SECRETARY COMMUNICATIONS
AND WORKS DEPARTMENT
r------_  -  ----_----    ----  ----- ---- - ----  ----- ----   ---_-_-- _-_-- _--- I 
BUILDINGS       I            DIRECTOR GENERAL              I     TOWN PLANNING
L      DEPARTMENT       j           HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT               AND HOUSING DEPARTMENT
REROAD       PLANNING AND       D INCONSTRUCTION                MAINTENANCE    AMNSRTV
RSEARCH      PROGRAMMING       DIRECTOR           PROJECT         DIRECTOROFIE
DIRECTOR  DIRECTOR                    ~~~~~~~DIRECTOR
DESIGN  DESG
NORTHERN     EASTERN     CENTRAL     SOUTHERN     WESTERN
REGION      REGION       REGION      REGION       REGION
I ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ IrPCt
I   I  I        I  I  ~~~~~~PLANNING, I II 
L   MAINTDESIGN AND  ENUIPME MANT ENE NG  SUPERINTENDING  BUDGETS AND
FIELD TEST  COUISITION CONSTRUCTION  AND STORES  ENGINEER  ENGINEER  ACCOUNTS     OFFICESRATV
ENGINEER  OFFICE    SUPERVISION  ENGINEER     CIRCLE I    CIRCLE II    OFFICEROFIE
ENGINEER
I   S)       (TIPCAL     (rrPCAL
I       I     l~~~ECIO  I  SCION1                 1 
ROAD AND  HIGHWAY  HIGHWAY  I HIGHWAYIIHGWA    I
PLANNINGAND ERIDGE CONSTRUCTION MAINTENANCE I MAINTENANCE M
PROGRAMMING  DESIGN  SUPERVISION  DIVISION I  I ~DIVISION 11  IISO 
I (07IHERS)   (|T7YP)CAL)  ( P   L)
SU-DIVISINAL  SUB-DIVISIONAL 
IMAINTENANCE I|MAINTENANCE| |MANEAC | |WOKS P I|DIITR INI
(OTHERS)    |(T7YPICAtL)
I SECTION  I  I  ETON I
IMAINTENANCE I    FANTNN
1 {OrHER;S)   |({TYPICAtL)
I   BEAT  :   I  BA 
MANEAC-I     IMITEACMITNN1 MAINTENANCE I
MOY 1968                                                                                     1BRD  3878



'T ..   .. hij?,                           M    I 
WEST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                               ¢                                  L .
PRINCIPAL ROADS AND RAILROADS                                     T Kho.t                               RIVE
Black top rods
-      Shingled or brick p.Ved roads                                              dk
Railroads
Project roads for co... r-ctio                     oo       000fohOqVRdILO
U Regional workshops to be si.pr.Ved
-  Project roads for  stody nod/or d-ig  *.
........Principal roa ds  under c...straction   .....  - -1tTA
-        -  US AIlD rods d*  desig                                                                                   T. D
R.gio...  bo drie    S    .,                     ,   7 !             '
< i X %  =  Z _  =  < <d         D -o aIIoh-   MLkESo
Ail S A  S/A V  S dc
...... ......                               ,-.:........          e
t                                                                                        <) 1
'il  Ldg..ht
,i -   IL
I                                                               ~~      ~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 100  2O0  300
S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Uh1MIL ES
- - - -  -   -  -- - -  -                    I   fly
A RABI A N     S EA
odn
.....   .. . .. . . .. . .
L,1VNEI196                                                                                                                      IBR3-22900



