Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                      ' FILE COWPY
Report No. 4901-BEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
April 27, 1984
West Africa Projects Department
Transportation II
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0  =  CFAF 418
CFAF 1 million  =  US$2,592
SYSTEMS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASIJRES: METRIC
Metric                              British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                         3 5.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)          =      10.76 square feet (sq. ft.,)
1 cubic meter (m3)                  35.30 cubic feet (cu. ft.)
1 kilometer (km)             =      0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)    =       0.39 square mile (sq. mi)
1 hectare (ha)               =      2.47 acres
1 metric ton (m ton)         =      2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CARDER     -  Regional Development Agency (Centre d'Action Regionale pour
le Developpement Economique Rural)
CNAERDR    -  Rural Road Development and Maintenance Coordinating
Committee (Comite National d'Amenagement et d'Entretien des
Routes de Desserte Rurale)
CNERTP     -  National Soils Laboratory (Centre National d'Essais et de
Recherches des Travaux Publics)
DEP        -  Directorate of Studies and Planning (Direction des Etudes
et de la Programmation)
DPTP       -  Provincial Directorate of Public Works (Direction
Provinciale des Travaux Publics)
DROA       -  Directorate of Roads and Bridges (Direction des Routes et
Ouvrages d'Art)
EDF        -  European Development Fund
FRMS       -  Feeder Roads Maintenance Section
MTC        -  Ministry of Transport and Communications (Ministere des
Transports et des Communications)
MTPCH      -  Ministry of Public Works, Construction and Housing
(Ministere des Travaux Publics, de la Construction et de
1'Habitat)
OCBN       -  Benin-Niger Railway (Organisation Commune Benin-Niger)
PPF        -  Project Preparation Facility
SEMTP      -  Equipment Maintenance Division (Service d'Entretien du
Materiel des Travaux Publics)
SER        -  Road Maintenance Division (Service d'Entretien des Routes)
SERC       -  Division of Studies, Planning and Control (Service des
Etudes, de la Reglementation et du Controle)
SRDR       -  Feeder Roads Division (Service des Routes de Desserte
Rurale)
UNCDF      -  United Nations Capital Development Fund
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 51



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BENIN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE ..........................................   (i)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUIMARY .........................................  (iii)
I.  INTRODUCTION ................................................                  1
A.  General .................................................    1
B.  Economic Setting ........................................    2
C.  Agriculture .............................................    3
D.  Past and Future IDA Assistance ..........................    4
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ........................................    6
A.  The Transport System ....................................    6
B.  The Road Transport Sub-Sector ...........................    7
III.  THE PROJECT ..............................                                    16
A. Objectives .......................                                        16
B.  Project Description .......................                             17
C. Cost Estimate .......................                                    21
D. Financing Plan .......................                                   22
E. Implementation .......................                                    23
F. Procurement .......................                                      23
G. Disbursements .......................                                    24
H.  Reporting and Auditing .......................                          25
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION .........................................   25
A.  General .....................................                           25
B.  Benefits and Beneficiaries ..............................   26
C. Economic Analysis .                                                      27
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED ................................0 3
The
project was prepared by the Feeder Roads Division (SRDR) with help from the
technical assistance team provided by Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick and Partners
(U.K.) under the Second Feeder Roads Project (Credit 1090-BEN). Mr. Paul Van
Bronswyk (Agronomist) of the Netherlands Volunteers' Organization in Cotonou
contributed significantly toward collecting and analyzing field data. The pro-
posed project was appraised in May 1983 by an IDA team comprising Messrs. Kuldeep
Ohbi (Economist), Louis Lekeux (Engineer) and Ms. Cynthia Cook (Sociologist).
Mr. Henri Beenhakker was the mission's adviser. This re-ort was prepared by
Messrs. Ohbi, Lekeux and Cisse (Engineer). Secretarial work was done by Ms. M.
Griest and Mr. W. Kline.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNIEXES
2-1   Road Construction and Maintenance Expenditures and their Financing
2-2   SRDR Past Expenditures
2-3   Estimated Recovery of Recurrent Costs on Roads
2-4   Indicative List of the Equipment Composing the Different Types of
Brigades
3-1   First, Second and Third-Year Programs
3-2   Socio-Economic Impact Study:  Terms of Reference
3-3   Action Plan for Feeder Roads Maintenance and its Financing
3-4   Equipment to be Purchased
3-5   Technical Assistance:  Terms of Reference
3-6   Training Program
3-7   Project Cost Summary
3-8   Implementation Schedule of the First Year
3-9   Implementation Schedule
3-10 Schedule of Disbursements
4-1   Key Assumptions in the Economic Analysis
4-2   Estimates of Marketable Agricultural Surpluses
4-3   Estimates of Area Cultivated (1980-81)
4-4   Summary of Costs and Benefits (First Year Program)
4-5   Sensitivity of the ERR to Changes in Underlying Assumptions
MAPS
7BR'D 17313R



(i)
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
INFORi4ATION CENTER CODE: DOC. #129 519
Ref. No.                                Document
1.        SRDR, Deuxieme Rapport Economique Intermediaire (Methode
d'Evaluation et Routes Evaluees), Rapport NO. 81042/34,
March 1981.
2.        SRDR, Troisieme Rapport Economique, December 1982.
3.        SRDR, Proposition pour le Troisieme Projet de Routes de
Desserte Rurales, undated.
4.        SRDR/Centre d'Appui au Developpement, Etude de l'Impact
Socio-Economique de l'Amelioration des Routes Rurales, May
1983.
5.        SRDR, Propositions des Etudes de l'Impact Socio-Economique
des Routes Rurales pour le Troisieme Projet, undated.
6.        SRDR, Reseau Routier Rural de la Republique Populaire du
Benin (Liste des 10.000 km de piste identifiees par les
CARDERS), undated.
7.        SRDR, Sommaire du Reseau Routier de la RPB, undated.
8.        SRDR, Besoins en Infrastructure Routiere Rurale et Routes
Selectionnees pour le Troisieme Projet Routes de Desserte
Rurales, undated.
9.        Presidence de la RPB, Decret No. 81-452 du 30 Decembre 1981
portant creation du CNAERDR, December 1981.
10.        SRDR, Organisation du Service des Routes de Desserte
Rurales December 1982.
11.        Centre d'Appui, Etude Pilote de l'Impact Socio-Economique
de l'Am!&lioration des Routes Rurales: 2eme Rapport
Trimestriel, December 1982.



(ii)
12.         Scott Wilson, Kirkpatrick and Partners, Project Preparation
Documents, undated.
13.         SRDR, Division Economique, Manuel Administratif,
March 1983.
14.         Finagnon IMIathias OKE, Universite Nationale du IB6nin, Dept.
de Recherche en Sciences Humaines et Sociales, Etude du
milieu: cas de projet de route rurale APLAHOUE-ATOME-
ASONDOGQUIN, 1 983.
15.         Ministry of Rural Development, "Evolution of Agricultural
Production, 1969/70, 1981/82, May 1983.
16.         Conversion factors for cereal equivalents, September 1983.
17.         Various working papers on demography, coordination,
training, socio-economic impact, local participation and
benefits and beneficiairies, undated.
18.         Philibert Alexis Quenum, Universite Nationale du B3n,n:
Faculte des sciences juridiques, economiques et politiques,
l'Efficacite des routes de desserte rurales dans l'economie
Beninoise - memoire de maltrise es-sciences economiques,
1982.
19.         Benin - Country Economic Memorandum (in four volumes),
August 1983.
20.         Benin - Transport Sector Strategy Paper, November 1983.
21.         Details of Calculations of Economic Rates of Return,
November 1983.
22.         MTPCH, Direction des Routes et Ponts, Division des Routes
de Desserte Rurales, Details types des ouvrages et des
profils routiers, undated.
23.         MTPCH, Direction des routes et ouvrages d'art, Service des
routes de desserte rurales, Deuxieme projet de routes de
desserte rurales, Etude de l'impact socio-economique de
l'amelioration des routes rurales, volume de donnees
complementaires et annexes, December 1983.
WAPT2
Apr. 1984



(iii)
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The People's Republic of Benin.
Beneficiary:         Feeder Roads Division (SRDR) of the Ministry of
Public Works, Constructior and Housing (MTPCH).
IDA Credit Amount:  SDR 5.7  million (US$6.0 million equivalent).
Special Fund
Credit:            SDR 5.7  million (US$6.0 million equivalent).
Terms:               Standard IDA terms
Project
Description:      The major objectives of the project are to: (a) support
rural development through the construction/improvement
and maintenance of feeder roads; (b) improve the local
planning, coordination and work execution capacity; and
(c) test the effectiveness of complementing feeder roads
construction with upgrading some contiguous footpaths to
trafficable low standard tracks. To achieve these ob-
jectives, the project would consist of: (a) construc-
tion/improvement of: (i) 840 km of feeder roads; and
(ii) on a pilot basis, low standard tracks connecting
some remote villages to these feeder roads; (b) main-
tenance of about 2,000 km of feeder roads; (c) pro-
curement of equipment and tools to complete equipping
four labor intensive brigades and one bridge brigade and
to replace some of the aging existing equipment;
(d) technical assistance: (i) to SRDR for implementation
of the project and of the training program; (ii) for
carrying out a socio-economic impact study to monitor
the growth of traffic and analyze motives for trips
generated, assess the medium-term (10 year) needs for
feeder roads, and monitor the pilot scheme for low cost
tracks; (iii) to Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DROA)
for the MTPCH training school in Cotonou and for the
Equipment Maintenance Division (SEMTP); and (e) the
preparation of a future project.



(iv)
Project Benefits
a;nd Risks        Project benefits would be derived from the incremental
value added to agricultural production, which would
accrue -to farmers whose incormes are currently 30-70% of
the national average. Additional but non-quantified
benefits would be derived from transport of non-
agricultural goods, improved road safety, comfort and
reduced journey time. The project would help the Govern-
ment realize a part of its rural development objectives.
The main risks are slow and uncoordinated implementation
and insufficient maintenance of the roads resulting in
reductions in the anticipated volumes of agricultural
production marketed. These risks would be minimized by:
(i) strengthening SRDR's management, training office and
field staff; (ii) basing SRDR's annual work programs on
the priorities of local development agencies (CARDERs)
and requiring that they be approved by the national Rural
Road Development and Maintenance Coordinating Committee
(CNAERDR) and submitted for IDA approval prior to start-
ing construction; (iii) creating in SRDR a feeder road
maintenance unit and implementing an Action Plan to
ensure timely maintenance of feeder roads; and (iv) as a
condition of approval of the second and third year work
programs, requiring SRDR's budget to show line items for
the counterpart funds and feeder road maintenance needs.
Summary Project Cost Estimate
US$ (thousand)
Local      Foreign       Total
1,  Technical Assistance,
Training and Con sultants
Services for future
project preparation                     465         1,614       2,079
2a  Equipment                                   96           861         957
3.  Road Construction and
Periodic Maintenance
(a)  Feeder roads                       3,788         1,540       5,328
(b)  Low standard tracks                  345           158         503
(c)  Periodic maintenance                 245           100         345
4d  Maintenance                                436           133         569
Total Base Cost                    5,375         4,406       9,781
Physical contingencies                     752           617      1,369
Price contingencies                      1,129           925      2,054
Total Project Cost                      7,256         5,948      13,204
Rounded                          7,255         5,945      13,200
77 Net of taxes and duties.



(v)
Financing Plan:
US$ -thousands
Local     Foreign        Total
IDA                    3,120       2,880        6,000
IDA Special Fund       2,935       3,065        6,000
Government              1,200         -          1,200
Total              7,255       5,945       13,200
Estimated Disbursements (Uss'000):
IDA Fiscal Year                   1985       1986       1987       1988
1.  IDA
Annual                          60      2,580      2,580        780
Cumulative                      60      2,640      5,220     6,000
2.  IDA Special Fund
Annual                         420      2,940      2,220        420
Cumulative                     420      3,360      5,580     6,000
Economic Rate of Return:  The estimated overall ERR for the first year
tranche of the project is 29%. To be eligible for financing, individual
roads in the second and third year tranches of the project must yield a
minimum ERR of 12% each.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4901-BEN
Map: IBRD 17313 R
WAPT2
Apr. 1984






BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. General
1.01     The Government of the People's Republic of Benin has requested
IDA's assistance in financing a three-year follow-up project for institu-
tional strengthening and construction/improvement and the maintenance of
feeder roads. The estimated project cost is US$15.2 million equivalent.
The Government would contribute US$1.2 million of the estimated cost,
leaving IDA and IDA Special Fund to finance the remaining US$12 mil-
lion. The proposed project would be IDA's third intervention in the
subsector. It would: (a) support rural development by constructing and
maintaining feeder roads; (b) improve the 1oCEal planning, coordination
and work execution capacity; and (c) test the effectiveness of comple-
menting feeder roads construction with upgrading some contiguous foot-
paths to trafficable low standard tracks. The project would provide for
about 840 km of feeder roads, some spare parts and complementary equip-
ment for the brigades and technical assistance and training to the Feeder
Roads Division (SRDR) and the Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DROA).
1.02     Although other donors are involved to some extent in feeder
roads in Benin, IDA is playing a special role in improving the planning,
coordination and efficiency of work execution and in developing a mainte-
nance capacity. IDA's strategy of institution building in concert with
local staff training has begun to produce good. results.  ALthough output
of brigades shows an improving trend, much remains to be done before SRDR
can effectively discharge its responsibilities. Continuity of IDA
assistance is essential to consolidate and accelerate progress made in
training local staff, maintaining feeder roads and the planning, coordi-
nation and execution of works.



- 2 -
B. Economic Setting
1.C3     The country of Benin covers about 112,600 km2 and is bordered by
Nigeria in the east, Togo in the west and Niger and Upper Volta in the
north.  Benin's seaboard is about 150 km from east to west and the dis-
tance from south to north is some 700 km. With the exception of the
Atacora range in the northwest, the terrain is generally flat. In the
center and south, the fertile flood plains of the Kouffo, Mono, Okpara,
Oueme and Zou rivers have considerable agricultural potential, but they
present obstacles to east-west transport. The project roads would be
located in the central and southern regions in four of the country's six
provinces: Borgou, Mono, Oueme and Zou. Other financiers are assisting
f'eeder roads developments in Atacora and Atlantique Provinces
(i?ara. 2.10).
1 04     The country's economy is based mostly on traditional farming.
Four-fifths of the population lives in rural areas and about three-
fourths of the labor force is engaged in the agricultural sector.-/ The
average annual growth of the total population is 2.6%, but this varies
from about 1.3% for the rural population to about 8% for the urban popu-
lation, reflecting internal migration patterns.  Agriculture contributed
about 43% of the GDP in 1981 and provided about 36% of the foreign ex-
change earnings. The industrial sector consists mainly of a few import
substitution and agricultural processing plants. Known mineral resources
are limited, although recently, phased exploitation of the small Seme
offshore oil field has begun.  High production costs and soft prices in
the international markets remain however as impedimen-ts to significant
oil development beyond the anticipated 4,000 to 10,000 barrels per day.
Cement and sugar are the other major industries but also face problems of
production costs, pricing and market uncertainties. Although gold and
phosphate prospecting has been pursued, to date there is no indication of
commercially exploitable deposits. Thus, in the absence of major mineral
resource endowments and with a limited industrial base, agriculture is
expected to remain the mainstay of the economy in the foreseeable future.
1.05     There is considerable potential for rural development and the
Government has recognized it by planning to dramatically increase the
proportion of public investrent devoted to this sector.  Although the
volume of planned investments (some CFAF 15 billion in 1977-80 vs. CFAF
137 billion in 1983-87) is optimistic and unlikely to be fully realized,
the Government's priority to rural development is appropriate. "he pro-
posed project would assist the Government to support rural and agricul-
tural development efforts.
1T  In 1982 the total population was estimated at 3.5 million with a per
capita GDP of about US$300.



- 3 -
Benin - Past and Planned Public Investments
Public Investments 1977-80                  Planned Public Investments 1983-87
(CFAF 243 billion)                               (CFAF 410 billion)
A~~~~~~
A - Rural Development             10.3        A - Rural Development              22.9
B - Industry                      38.2        B - Industry                       12.6
C - Public Utilities/Energy       14.7        C - Public Utilities/Energy         7.3
D - Transports                    29.0        D - Transports                     27.6
E - Other                          7.8        E - Other                          29.6
100.0                                          100.0
Solurce:  Benin Economic Memorandum, Vol. 1, 1983, (Ref. #19) a/
a   Selected documents available in the Project File are listed on pages
(i) and (ii) and referred to in this report by their reference number
on these pages.
1.06     Aware of the need to carefully manage its resources better, the
Government is attempting to make the agricultural sector more efficient;
it plans to phase out farm input subsidies; raise producer prices; stimu-
late production of food crops, and emphasize agricultural exports, on
which Benin depends for a significant share of its foreign receipts.
Generally, there is also a move to de-emphasize state control of the
economy.
C. Agriculture
1.07     Agricultural activities are dominated by traditional staples:
manioc and yams. Maize is increasingly being grown for sale to the urban
population. Food crops are mostly grown on private farms in Benin which
are typically small, ranging from about 1.8 to 3 ha. Commercial output
of these farms is sensitive to price and availability of transport alter-
natives to porterage. Although the Government nominally sets prices for
food crops, they are sold in free markets at two to three times the offi-
cial price. Government intervention in food crops generally is limited



to extension services provided by the regional development agencies
(CARDERs). The major export crops, i.e. palm products, groundnuts and
(otton, are generally produced, processed and marketed under Governmen-t
control.
2000-           Benin - Main Crops Produced
1900 -
1800                                  /
O  1700_
1600_
1500_
1400
1300
1200-         ,                      
1      1        1        1 ' 1             1
7        7        9         9       9
7        7        7         7       8
6        7         8        9       0         1       2
Average    Manioc   Yams   haize   Sorghum   Rice   Beans   Ground-  Palm   Palm
last 3 years                                                 nuts      Oil  Kernels   Total
('000 tons)    629   68      289      59      10    22       60       15      54      1,826
Source:  SRDR, Troisieme rapport economique, Dec. 1982 (Ref. #2).
1.08     Livestock is important mainly in the north and fish in the
south, with its numerous lagoons and lakes. Overall, traditional food
crops are likely to continue supplying the major part of the daily calo-
ric intake.
D. Past and Future IDA Assistance
Feeder Roads
1.09     The proposed project would be IDA's third intervention in the
feeder roads area in Benin. The strategy in the preceding projects was
based on the need to: (a) lay the institutional foundation for the admi-
nistration, planning and execution of feeder roads; and (b) train local
managers and field personnel in managing and executing low-cost road
construction and maintenance. Establishing a sound institutional basis



- 5 -
in concert with extending accessibility to rural pockets of economic po-
tential has proved to be an appropriate strategy.  After initial imple-
mentation difficulties, the strategy is now producing acceptable results
and sufficient capacity exists to absorb further investments in feeder
roads.  IDA experience with feeder roads in Benin is reviewed in
Chapter II.
Highways
1.10     The Third Highway Proj ct (Credit No. 746-BEN, signed in
November 1977, US$10 million) _ , completed i-n June 1983, rehabilitated a
107 km section of the country's main north-south highway and expanded the
maintenance program begun under the first two highway projects. The
prcject completion report for the Third Highway Project notes that there
were cost overruns and the project scope had to be reduced during imple-
mentation. Although the economic rates of return compared favorably with
the appraisal estimates, the project completion report notes that insti-
tutional development objectives were only partially met. The Fourth
Highway Project (Credit No. 1142-BEN, signed in July 1981, SDR 9.3 mil-
licn), to be completed by 1985, provides for the resealing of a 54 km
stretch carried over from the Third Highway Project, plus rehabilitation
of 500 km of gravel roads. The Government has requested assistance to
upgrade the final section of Dassa-Parakou (210 km), the main north-south
highway. This project (if accepted for IDA assistance) would be a suit-
able vehicle for introducing sectoral policy changes aimed at restoring
the competitive advantage of the Benin route (para. 2.03) and assisting
the Government address the future role of the railway (para. 2.04) which
has been running losses on operations since 1975.
1.11     The Government has also requested and IDA has approved a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) for preparation of a transport infrastructure
rehabilitation and maintenance project, following the dialogue between
IDA and the Government aimed at shifting priorities from construction of
new roads to maintenance of the existing network. This project is now
being prepared. The major objectives of this project are to create capa-
city and improve efficiency of road maintenance (para. 2.03), restructure
the road maintenance finances with a view toward increasing maintenance
funding and streamlining budgetary allocations (para. 2.11) and improve
efficiency of transit operations through Benin.
Rural Development Projects
1.12     Two rural development projects, one in Borgou Province (Credit
No. 1127-BEN, signed in March 1981, SDR 15.7 million) and another in Zou
Province (Credit No. 1314-BEN, signed in February 1983, SDR 18.7 million)
are currently being implemented. Both aim to increase food and cotton
production and to strengthen institutional and technical infrastructure.
1/ Credit amounts are denominated in either US$ or SDR depending on the
denomination used in the legal documents.



-6-
Tne proposed project would support the objectives of these projects
through improving feeder road transport.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
2.01     The transport sector is important in Benin and has absorbed
about a quarter of the public investments and provided about a fifth of
ths formal employment.  Aside from satisfying domestic demand, the sector
supplies transit services for land-locked Niger.  Prospects for major
sector developments, however, remain modest because of the small size of
the domestic market, compounded by economic difficulties at home and in
neighboring countries.
2.02     Roads are the dominant transport mode; three-fourths of all
freight and 90% of passenger movements are by road. Overall, the extent
of the main network is adequate for Benin's needs. The Government is
planning to pave by 1988 the remaining unpaved section of the main south--
north route, the Dassa-Parakou (210 km) section. A feasibility study to
de.ermine the economic viability of this project is expected to be
comopleted by end-1984. There is however need to expand coverage of
feeder roads to integrate areas of agricultural potential within the
economy. The deteriorated feeder roads are a constraint to expansion of
agriculture. Equally critical is the even worse condition of paths and
trails connecting farms to markets and collection points along the feeder
roads. Expansion of agriculture partly depends on farmers being confi-
deat that farm surpluses can be transporte,l e-* reasonable cost.  Im-
proving paths and tracks wold permit use of more efficient transports
than porterage (motcrcyles, bicyles and public transport vehicles) to
serve farmhoLds Located some distance away from feeder roads (para.3.06).
2.03     The heart of Benin's transport system is the international Port
of Cotonou. Port capacity was recently expanded to about 1.2 million
tons of general cargo a year with assistance from several donors includ-
ing IDA (Credit No. 826-BEN, signed in October 1978, US$19.3 million).
Port traffic has ranged from 1.0 to 1.5 million tons over the past five
years, including substantia:L transit traffic for Nigeria through 1979
when Nigerian port capacity was expanded. Although the alternative tran-
sit, routes for Niger traffic have begun to attract a part of the transit
traffic, particularly through Togo, Niger continues to rely on Benin's
transit corridor, and accounts for about a third of Cotonou's total ton-
nage handled. Cotonou Port capacity is sufficient for the foreseeable
needs, although the rust-damaged pilings of the eastern jetty will re-
quire rehabilitation soon.
2.04     A 'bi-national autonomous agency, the OCBN, operates a 440 km
railroad line from Cotonou north to Parakou where goods bound for Niger
and northern Benin are transferred to trucks. OCBN controls the trans-
shipment and also runs two sparsely used coastal lines: (a) the 107 km
eastern link between Cotonou and Porto Novo-Pobe; and (b) the 33 km



-7-
western extension connecting Segboroue to Cotonou. OCBN has been making
losses on operations since 1975. (In 1982 OCBN lost about CFAF 850 mil-
lion on revenues of CFAF 3.04 billion). IDA's policy dialogue with the
Government is based on the recognition that while increased efficiency
and some increase of capacity in the main north-south corridor are
desirable, there is probably not enough traffic demand for a paved road
and a railway to co-exist in this corridor. The feasibility study
mentioned above (para. 26) will propose alternative courses of action to
optimize investment in the corridor.
2.05     Several airlines serve the international airport at Cotonou.
Domestic civil aviation and internal waterways account for a minor share
of transport activities.
B. The Road Transport Sub-Sector
The Network
2.06     The classified road network is reasonably adequate, amounting to
about 7,500 km, of which 930 km are paved and 3,640 'm gravelled (in-
cluded in the gravel roads are about 1,300 km of feeder roads).  The
remaining 2,930 km are seasonal earth roads which, due to the lack of
maintenance, have regressed to the status of tracks and foot paths. Many
villages located along these roads are now cut off from markets and have
few commercial exchanges with the rest of the country. The road density
averages 0.065 km/km2 for the whole country, ranging from 0.050 km/km2 in
the less populated northern region to 0.130 km/km2 in the more densely
populated coastal region in the south.
Road Administration
2.07     The Ministry of Public Works, Construction and housing (MTPCH)
administers roads through its Directorate of Roads arLd Bridges (DROA) and
six provincial directorates of public works (DPTPs).
Benin - Ministry of Public Works  Cornstruction and Housing
& IMWV            ydaCc'? d P  C
(DEP)   Ad~~~~~1143tlatim   & HDAIConlTucbn   Hcsir
Dacta ct.m(6
(DPGP)
W n- 2I433



The DPTPs are responsible for execution of maintenance and minor cons-
truction work on the classified roads while DROA is responsible for all
other aspects of roads administration.
Benin - Directorate of Roads and Bridges
-                          .~~~~~d
DitantiS   6  TechI'~i  DI',   Ifof.i Uni
Adrlnistratint~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Unitgs DOA 
set t                                                     ...no.
t  e  -     U1
|    Feeder Roads  s           L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aitace  sectio=n
Construct inn S.c nion
.                    I
i- 5I eh.flhssd  |    | b:r  Intensite  | |IBl0dtftt6Cuei  |t    htt  l   Acor  c Br100 
of Srutot LnBnrsri.   C onIf 175 L2-bnrens|   oi   3  L nter n0
Planning and Control- (SERCC), an Rquip,,nent Ma~~~~i ntnahncei D4visio   (SEMTinC
Road Maint c  DBriRade  I __ -vs ngad LSRD
20 Lnbnrer a   I  | 20 L Ibncsrs 
SER's responsibilities include planning, coordination and qualiStnys con-tnrtl
of the main,classified network;the actu Csnma int ena  s aintenante onf ie --
Intsat   of                    I 
haebe|ecnl eegtdt h I    g al l r werganc PFe   20|.tes|_.
| 15 LaScrttn     IS iatosrsr       SLbrr 
DROA's organization is satisfactory and includes a iDivision of Studies,
Planning and Control (SERC), an Rquipment Maintenance Division (SEMTP), a
Road Maintenance nDivision (SER)  and the Feeder Roads Division (SRDR).
SER's responsibilities include planning, coordination and quality con-trol
of the main, classified network; the actualL maintenance responsibilities
have been recently delegated to the genera~Lly weak !DPTPs (para. 2.09).
SRDR is responsible for the planning, cons-truction and maintenance of
feeder roads. SRDR's maintenance efforts will be rXeorganized under the
project to make possible the maintenance of 2,000 "no of priority roads
(para. 2.15), which represents about 80% of the all-weather feeder road
network. A temporary Feeder Roads Maintenance Section (FRMS) will be
attached to SRDR's existing organigram for this purpose.  This temporary
section is shown by broken lines in the figure abovie and described in
para. 3.10.



-9-
Construction
2.08     Preparation and supervision of new main road projects lies with
SERC. Most projects financed by foreign aid agencies are prepared and
supervised by consultants on behalf of SERC. Domestic construction in-
dustry does not have sufficient capacity to undertake major new works
which are undertaken by foreign contractors. Local contracting organiza-
tions generally undertake construction of buildings and minor road works
such as culverts and other drainage works. A public domestic contracting
company (associated with a foreign firm) has been involved in rehabili-
tation of paved roads under the Third and Fourth Highway Projects, with
mixed results. However, periodic maintenance and improvement of second-
ary gravel roads has been successfully carried out by SER's force account
under the Third and Fourth Highway Projects. SRDR's labor intensive
force account brigades have been particularly successful in carrying out
construction/improvements of feeder roads under the Second Feeder Roads
Project. This arrangement will continue under the proposed project.
Maintenance
2.09     DROA, through its SER coordinates the maintenance activities of
the DPTPs. Maintenance of main classified roads has improved over the
years, but is still hampered by inadequate management, shortages of qua-
lified higher level staff and equipment, poor equipment maintenance and
insufficient local funds. Responsibility for maintenance of unclassified
roads rests with the local provincial authorities. The Government's
decision to decentralize maintenance of main roads at the DPTP level
reflects an attempt to improve road maintenance efficiency. However, it
would take time for the DPTPs to develop capacity to maintain the network
effectively. A proposed transport infrastructure rehabilitation and
maintenance project, now under preparation, is aimed, inter alia, at
assisting the Government develop the capacity of DPTPs in road mainte-
nance and test the effectiveness of carrying out maintenance by con-
tract. In the interim, SRDR will maintain about 2,000 km of priority
feeder roads (para. 2.15).
Road Financing
2.10     Roads expenditures over the past four years have averaged
CFAF 5,300 million (US$12.7 million) per year. Maintenance expenditures
have accounted for an increasing proportion of the total -- 355% in the
three years to 1982, compared with 15% in the previous three years
(Annex 2-1) but are still short of the estimated needs. Expenditures on
feeder roads (Annex 2-2) have increased from 4% of the total in 1979 to
20% in 1982, and are expected to continue to grow rapidly. Foreign aid
has financed 60-75% of total road outlays in recent years and 85/% of
expenditures on feeder road construction. Feeder roads are being sup-
ported primarily by the European Development Fund (EDF), the United
Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) and IDA. In addition, the
International Labor Organization (ILO) has a demonstration project in



- 10 -
Oueme Province and the Federal Republic of Germany is involved with
feeder roads in the Atlantique Province.
2.11     Despite the above noted increase in maintenance expenditures,
there continues to be budgetary shortages of maintenance financing, espe-
cially for feeder roads. Taxation of road users appears adequate to
cover the maintenance of the main and feeder road network (para. 2.13).
However, the majority of the revenues from these taxes goes to the Gov-
ernment's general budget with the maintenance of roads remaining under
funded. The proposed project will provide temporary relief by financing
a part of these maintenance expeditures. The proposed transport infra.-
structure rehabilitation and maintenance project will address maintenance
requirements more generally, including appropriate arrangements for
allocating sufficent funds and raising revenues commensurate with main-
tenance needs.
Recovery of Recurrent Costs on Roads
2.12     Forecasts of the Government's recurrent costs for maintenance of
main and feeder roads for 1983-87 and revenues from the major sources of
taxes i.e. motor fuels 1/ and taxes and duties on imports of new
veThicles,
Benin - Estimates of Recurrent Cost Recovery
3000                                    LEGEND
Cost
1983   1984   1985  19%   1987
'U Current taxes on gasoline and diesel fuel are CFAF 47/it and
CFAF 29/lt respectivelyR The retail pump price of gasoline and
diesel fuel is CFAF 163/lt and CFAF 132/it respectively, compared
with the  border price (oie  Cotonou) of CFAF 82/it and CFAF 85/it.
The difference between the retail price of motor fuels and the border
price, after accounting for the above taxes, is made up by the sole
source national distributors' profits, operating costs and levys for
price stabilization and price equalization for transport costs, etc.



- 11 -
spare parts and tires are shown in Annex 2-3. I/  Road maintenance costs
are estimated based on the assumption that all of the network will be
maintained adequately and thus require about CFAF 1 billion more than is
currently budgetted for.  Recurrent costs of road maintenance include
both routine and periodic operations.  The latter could be considered a
capital cost, but being recurrent annually, has to be covered as a recur-
rent cost and budgetted for.
2.13     Because of the existing maintenance backlog (arising from
underfunding and insufficient capacity of S3R as well as the weak DPTPs)
the estimated maintenance needs are expected to increase from about
CFAF 2.4 billion in 1983 to about CFAF 3.5 billion in 1987.  Included in
these figures are the maintenance needs of feeder roads which will grow
from about CFAF 71 million in 1983 to about CFAF 211 million in 1987
corresponding to an average annual increase of some 30%. Revenues from
conservatively estimated road user charges are expected to increase from
about CFAF 3.4 billion to some CFAF 3.6 billion over the corresponding
time horizon; thus indicating that revenues from existing road user
charges would adequately cover the recurrent costs of maintaining the
main and the feeder roads.
Planning and Coordination of Feeder Roads
2.14     SRDR is responsible for planning and coordination of feeder
roads.  A data base for rural road planning was established in SRDR under
the Second Feeder Roads Project.  SRDR compiles provincial-Level data on
population, agricultural production and social infrastructure. Although
the quality of SRDR's data base is improving, there remain deficiencies
particularly regarding traffic on feeder roads,  A socio-economic impact
study to be carried out under the proposed projet is expected, inter
alia, to improve traffic data (para. 3.02). The regional development
agencies (CARDERs), taking into account the level of interest of local
communities, suggest road improvement priorities to SRDR, which uses its
data base to evaluate the local priorities and to develop its annual work
program.  This program is submitted for approval to the National Rural
Road Construction and Maintenance Coordinating Committee (CNAERDR). The
minister of MTPCH is the chairman of CNAERDR and the committee comprises
representatives of the technical, finance, planning and rural development
ministries and directors of CARDERs. The inclusion of the directors of
CARDERs in this committee is a positive step to ensure that SRDR's work
programs reflect local development needs and are coordinated with the
complementary investments planned by the Ministry of Rural Development.
1/  As data on revenues from taxes and duties on imports of new vehicles,
spare parts and tires are unreliable, the consultants estimate of
CFAF 1.9 billion in revenues from these sources is open to a margin
of error. The consultant's estimates have therefore been reduced to
CFAF 1 billion in revenues for 1983 to take into account the weak
data base. Efforts are underway to create a reliable transport data
bank as part of the preparation of a proposed infrastructure
rehabilitation and maintenance project.



- 12 -
Du-ring negotiations, Government agreed to maintain CNAERDR for the
du-ration of the project.
Maintenance of Feeder Roads
2.15     The Second Feeder Roads Project provided short-term capacity in
SRDR to ensure maintenance of 1,200 km of feeder roads because under-
funded local authority efforts rarely ensured all weather utilization of
feeder roads. Although late in starting, SRDR has made satisfactory
progress in maintaining designated feeder roads. Pending the development
of naintenance capacity at the provincial level, a temporary feeder road
maintenance section (FRMS) will be created in SRDR to maintain 2,000 km
of priority feeder roads under the proposed project.
2.16     The FRMS will be headed by an experienced Beninese engineer and
assisted by an expatriate training officer experienced in road mainte-
nance. FRMS will, inter alia, plan, program and execute routine and
per-odic maintenance.
IDA Involvement in Feeder Roads
2. 7     The First Feeder Roads Project (Credit No. 717-BEN, signed in
May 1977, US$5-5 million) was conceived as the first phase of a longer
term feeder roads improvement and maintenance program. In addition to
successfully establishing an effective Feeder Roads Division in MTPCH,
the project tested three different construction methods comprising equip-
ment intensive, moderately equipped and labor intensive brigades, and
demonstrated that under proper management labor-intensive construction
methods are competitive with equipment-intensive methods. In retrospect,
the project implementation schedule was optimistic.  It took 18 months
before the project started to operate at the planned speed. This delay
was due to cumbersome administrative procedures and the pilot nature of
the project. Additionally the 134 man-months of technical assistance
foreseen at appraisal had to be increased by 57 man-months to 191 man-
months because the Government was slow in completing staffing of the
Feeder Roads Division. During this period the exchange rate of the US
dollar with respect to the CFAF deteriorated significantly and inflation
was Df the order of 18 percent annually. As a result of this and of cost
increases over the appraisal estimates, only 350 km of the target 845 km
were constructed with available credit funds.
2.18     The follow-up Second Feeder Roads Project (Credit No. 1090-BEN,
signed in January 1981, SDR 5.5 million) underway since February 1981,
provides for construction of 700 km of feeder roads and maintenance of
1,2550 km and continues institutional development through technical
assistance and training. Overall project implementation is satisfactory
with the exception of the heavy equipment-intensive brigade. Labor-
intensive works have progressed well because the technical assistance has
ensured adequate site management, timely and regular payment of wages to
latorers and local communities have provided disciplined labor.  However,
availability of labor has become a constraint to further expansion of
labor-intensive works in some parts of the country and for certain types



- 13 -
of work such as quarry operations. Whereas labor has traditionally been
a constraint in the sparsely populated north, attractive wages in Nigeria
have begun to limit availability of required quantities in Ou6me and Mono
provinces in the south. Thus, while recruitment is constraining labor-
intensive works, the mechanized works have not progressed as planned
because SRDR does not have sufficient managerial capacity to make optimal
use of the heavy construction units such as the equipment-intensive
brigade (the size of which normally requires well equipped maintenance
and repair facilities at the work site as is the case with works executed
on contract). Works undertaken with the heavy equipment-intensive
brigade have thus continued to suffer from interruptions associated with
heavy equipment downtime resulting from insufficient strategic planning
and inadequate logistic support. There being no reasonable prospects for
improving performance of the heavy equipment-intensive brigade, its
equipment intensity will be made manageable by reducing its size under
the proposed project. The surplus equipment thus freed will be used to
mechanize some tasks of the labor-intensive brigades, thereby reducing
heavy demands on labor and to create a third maintenance brigade.
Reducing equipment-intensity will make the brigade more mobile than
before and appropriate for works on short streches of roads typical of
the proposed feeder roads project.
2.19     SRDR now operates a total of seven construction brigades, a
specialized bridge construction brigade and two maintenance brigades.
Annex 2-4 shows the composition of the brigades. The seven construction
brigades comprise the four labor-intensive brigades, and the problem
prone heavy equipment-intensive brigade, all financed by IDA, plus two
UNCDF labor intensive brigades in the north. Although SRDR has expanded
from four brigades under the First Project to ten brigades at present
(amounting to some 1,800 field and headquarters personnel), SRDR has
reached the limits of effective capacity to provide site management and
logistic support to feeder road operations. Because of past delays in
staffing SRDR and weaknesses in the training program, counterpart staff
have not been fully trained. SRDR has now reached the capacity limit to
effectively provide site management and logistic support for feeder roads
construction. To avoid disrupting the momentum of project execution,
technical assistance services have had to be increased by 44 man-months
beyond the 106 man-months foreseen at appraisal. Overall, the technical
assistance has been satisfactory in transferring technology and training
counterpart staff considering that while Uhe man-months of technical
assistance services have decreased somewhat, SRDR workload has increased
considerably in tandem with increasing productivity of the field bri-
gades. The following graph compares planned and actual quantities of
technical assistance during the First and Second Feeder Roads Projects:



- 14 -
Benin - Planned vs. Actual Technical Assistance
LEGEND:
200               -
'  r_vn~~ A-Planned
'SQ<              B- Actual
160 ?     W       g Brigade Chiefs      B
^140 -   AX
Economist
Accountant
60         I          e L HQ Engineer
Mission Chief 
First Feeder                 Second Feeder a!
Roads Pro.ect                Roads Project
-/ At end of December 1983.
However, with recruitment of labor becoming a constraint, labor-intensive
cornstuction activities should not be expanded until the completion of
the proposed project which would provide additional training to strength-
en SRDR. The need now is to reduce heavy dependence on labor through the
mechanization of some of the more laborious tasks such as excavation of
laterite.
2.20     By about June 1984, when the 9econd Feeder Roads Project is
expected to be completed, abou-n 650 km of the targeted 700 km are ex-
pected to be constructc-s ,.The main reason for the shortfall in the cons-
truction target ish DRq s relative inexperience in managing the heavily-
equipped construction brigade and the resulting poor performance of that
br1gade, Therefore, the mix of construction technology under the pro-
posed project will be changed to reflect a better balance between the
need to reduce excessive dependency on labor on the one hand and the need
to reduce dependance on the heavily equipped brigade on the other.
Choice of Construction Technology
2.21     In light of the above, the proposed project will optimise the
labor and equipment components of the construction brigades with the
objectives of reducing the labor requirements of the labor-intensive
brigades, reducing downtime of the mechanized brigade and increasing
product;ivity. The use of two different construction technologies remains
justified in order to achieve about 300 km of works per year without
having to multiply the number of labor-intensive brigades and to cope
with the difficulties of recruitment, mainly in the Oueme province ad-
jacent to the Nigerian border. The project will use four labor-



- 15 -
intensive, one mechanized and a bridge brigade to achieve its construc-
tion objectives. The existing heavy equipment-intensive brigade will be
dismantled and its equipment shared for: (a) creating the mechanized
construction brigade to be used under the project and (b) creating a
mechanized maintenance brigade for the southern region. Quarry operat-
ions of the labor-intensive brigades will be mechanized. The transfer of
equipment should result in improved performance and manageability of the
mechanized brigade; mechanizing the quarry operations would improve the
productivity of the labor-intensive construction brigades by about 10%
and reduce the critical problem of labor recruitment by reducing the size
of these labor-intensive brigades from 275 laborers to only 175.
Road Transport and Road Transport Industry
2.22     Size and composition of Benin's vehicle fleet can only be appro-
ximately determined.  The vehicle fleet appears to have remained almost
cornstant at about 13,000 vehicles since 1970, although its composition
has changed: passenger cars and pick-ups decreased from 83% (1970) to
56% (1979); light trucks (up to 7 tons) increased from 7% to 25%, and
heavy trucks and trailers from 10% to 19%. Fuel consumption has grown at
an average rate of 4.5% per annum between 1970 and 1981, partly attribu-
table to the changes in vehicle fleet composition.
2.23     The road transport industry consists of para-public and private
enterprises. The para-public companies are e:agaged in own account oper-
ations and are generally inefficient with the fleet averaging about
20,000 km per year per vehicle.  Most of the international and national
transport is handled by the larger private transporters. Some 400 small
private trucking concerns, with four vehicles or less, handle short dis-
tance transport and operate fairly efficiently, however, at tariffs which
may be below cost due to insufficient demand.
2.24     Freight and passenger tariffs, set by inter-ministerial decree
and infrequently revised, do not generally provide transporters suffi-
cient margin to allow for proper equipment maintenance and renewal.
Since, however, private transporters do not strictly adhere to official
tariffs, in reality it is supply and demand and road conditions which
determine rates. Transport on feeder roads is particularly sensitive to
the physical condition of these roads. SRDR estimates that because of
advanced deterioration on some of the roads included ulnder the proposed
project, up to about one half of the marketable crops from the farms
served by these roads could not be evacuated and thus spoiled during the
1980-81 harvest for lack of transport other than porterage. A socio-
economic study aimed largely at assessing development of traffic after
road construction was carried out under the Second Feeder Roads Project
(Ref. # 4) and suggests that the roads constructed under previous proj-
ects have had a positive impact on the villages served. Markets have
developed following provision of roads. Traffic on the sample of roads
studied has exceeded appraisal estimates but, overall, the data base
remains weak. To remedy this shortcoming, among other things, a follow-up
study is proposed under the proposed project (para. 3.08).



- 16 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01     The main objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a)   support rural development (especially IDA-asslsted pro-
grams in Borgou and Zou provinces) by the construction and
maintenance of feeder roads;
(b)   improve local capacity to plan, coordinate and execute
such works; and
(c)   test the effectiveness of complementing feeder roads cons-
truction with upgrading some contiguous footpaths to traf-
ficable low standard tracks.
B. Project Description
3.02     To achieve these objectives, the following components are pro-
posed:
(a)   construction/improvement of: (i) 840 km of feeder roads;
and (ii) on a pilot basis, low standard low cost tracks
connecting selected remote villages to these feeder roads;
(b)   maintenance of about 2,000 km of feeder roads covering
almost 10O% of the constructed feeder road network;
(c)   procurement of equipment and some tools to complete equip-
ment of the existing 4 labor intensive brigades, 1 bridge
brigade and to replace some of the aging existing equip-
ment;
(d)   technical assistance: (i) to SRDR for implementation of
the project and of the training program; (ii) for carrying
out a socio-economic impact study to monitor the growth of
traffic and analyze motives for trips generated, assess
the medium-term (10-year) needs for feeder roads in the
country, and monitor the pilot scheme for low-cost tracks;
(iii) to DROA for MTPCH training center in Cotonou and for
the Equipment Maintenance Division (SEMTP); and
(e)   future project preparation.
Construction of Feeder Roads
3..03    The Feeder Roads construction program has been established by
the SRDR to reflect the local priorities of the CARDERs and is based on
an estimated productivity of 100 km/year for the mechanized brigade and



- 17 -
50 km/year for each labor-intensive brigade. All the roads have been
evaluated individually for economic feasibility and are important for
ongoing rural development projects and/or the local development priori-
ties of CARDERs.
3.04     The 3-year program covers four provinces and includes 840 km
representing about 29% of the unclassified roads (2,930 km, para. 2.06)
in the country. Three hundred and fourty kilometers of these are of par-
ticular importance for the Zou rural development project and 182 km for
the Borgou Province (para. 1.12). The first year construction program,
consisting of 240 km is firm, and has been approved by CNAERDR
(Annex 3-1, page 1). The second and third year programs (Annex 3-1,
pages 2 and 3) are tentative and subject to change because they have not
yet been approved by CNAERDR. During negotiations, the Government agreed
that, in case of changes from the tentative program: (a) roads
substituted for those included in the existing program should have a
minimum 12% ERR; and (b) each year's work program should reflect a rea-
sonable geographic coverage in the four provinces. Government also
agreed to submit the CNAERDR approved second and third years' work
programs for IDA review at least three months before the beginning of
their implementation and to start construction of individual roads only
after approval by the Association.
3.05     Design standards used by SRDR for construction were established
during the two previous projects and remain satisfactory (Ref. #22).
Depending on the expected average daily traffic, these are:
Benin - Design Standards in Road Construction
Less than 20 vehicles      More than 20 vehicles
Clearing width                      8 m                         10 m
Road formation width                 5 m                         6 m
Gravel surface width                4 m                          4 m
Gravel thickness               0 - 20 cm                    0 - 20 cm
Drainage                  Lateral ditches, fords and culverts
The thickness of the gravel wearing course varies from 0 - 20 cm and
reflects soil conditions. Bridges would be provided only exceptionally
where clearly warranted by volume of traffic.
Low Standard Tracks
3.06     In view of its experimental nature and its modest cost, the list
and location as well as the total number of kilometers to be built under
the pilot program of low standard tracks has not been specified. The
program will consist of upgrading some existing foot paths linking remote
villages to feeder roads. The works would be limited to provision of
drainage, widening the carriage way to 3.50 meters and minimal graveling
to provide all-year accessibility for four-wheeled light vehicles.



- 18 -
3.07     To select the low standard tracks to be constructed, the Govern-
ment agreed during negotiations to comply with the following criteria and
conditions: (a) individual tracks do not exceed 10 km in length; (b)
each track links one or more small communities to a feeder road cons-
tructed under the project; (c) the beneficiary communities are willing to
provide labor for maintenance of the track; and (d) the provincial autho-
rities include in their annual budgets sufficient funds to cover the
recurrent costs of track maintenance. The project would provide hand-
tbols and training to maintain the tracks during the first year.
3.08     During implementation of the socio-economic impact study the
pilot scheme will be systematically monitored and evaluated in order to
develop more specific criteria for selecting other tracks to be included
in a possible follow-up project.  During negotiations Government
confirmed the terms of reference for this socio-economic study
7nrLnex 3-2).
Feeder Road Maintenance
3509     Because of the uncertain quality of current maintenance efforts
(para. 2.15) and as an interim measure, the project would provide for the
maintenance of about 2,000 km of priority feeder roads.  These priority
roads would include those constructed under the proposed project and the
first and second IDA-financed projects as well as the projects financed
by UNCDF and EDF. They constitute about 80% of the all weather feeder
roads. Three hundred kilometers of these priority feeder roads are
already being maintained by the DPTPs and will continue to be so main-
tained under SRDR's supervision. Small-scale experiments to assess cost-
effectiveness of maintenance by contract with either local communities or
petty contractors originally planned under the Second Feeder Roads
Project will be carried out under the proposed project. Carrying out
maintenance by contract is one of the objectives of the future transport
infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance project.
3.10     A feeder road maintenance section (FRMS)would be created in SRDR
and later integrated in the SER after SER's road maintenance capacity is
developed under the envisaged transport infrastructure rehabilitation and
maintenance project. Technical assistance would be provided to assist
the management and operations of the FRMS. I-t will have three regional
offices: one for the southern provinces, and one each for the larger
Atacora and Borgou provinces. Each regional office will be headed by an
experienced technician and assisted by a road supervisor to make sure
that planned maintenance is executed. During negotiations, Government
agreed that the heads of regional offices and the road supervisors to
assist them would be in place by December 1984.  Routine maintenance will
be done by gangs of about 20 laborers attached to eacn regional office.
The number of gangs in each regional office will vary depending on the
density of the feeder roads to be maintained. (Each gang will maintain
about 100 km of feeder roads). For unforeseen needs, each regional
office will have one gang of 15 laborers trained to handle emergency
maintenance. Periodic maintenance (mostly grading) will be ensured by 2
mechanized brigades: one for the southern provinces and the other for



- 19 -
Atacora and Borgou provinces. During negotiations, the Government agreed
to implement maintenance of the feeder roads in accordance with the
action plan for feeder roads maintenance and its financing (Annex 3-X).
5.11     Routine maintenance operations will be done essentially by
labor-intensive methods while seasonal grading will be carried out by
mechanized methods. A second mechanized brigade, for use in the south
would be created (with part of the equipment made available from dis-
mantling the existing heavy mechanized brigade) to supplement the exist-
ing mechanized maintenance brigade.
Equipment
3.12     Most of the equipment purchased or rehabilitated under the
Second Feeder Roads Project will remain in service throughout the
Third. Supplementary equipment will be required to: (a) replace worn out
equipment; (b) complete the quarry equipment for the labor intensive
brigades; and (c) increase the capacity of the bridge and culvert cons-
truction brigade which has been working successfully under the Second
Feeder Roads Project but is under-equipped. The project also provides
for the purchase of materials (steel, cement, timber, etc.) for this
bridge and culvert brigade. Annex 3-4 lists the equipment to be pur-
chased. Maintenance of equipment used by both construction and main-
tenance brigades would be entrusted to SEMPT. SEMPT's performance under
the ongoing Fourth Highway Project is satisfactory.
Technical Assistance
5.13     The project includes a total of 160 man-months of technical
assistance and 60 man-months of volunteer's service. The Annex 3-5 gives
a calendar and a full description of the technical assistance team as
well as each technical assistants responsibities and required qualifi-
cations. The table on page 20 shows the working time of each expert
allocated to specific duties.



- 20 -
Benin - Technical Assistance
Executive Function       Training      Total
(man-months)        (man-months)
A.  SRDR
Administration &
Accounting Expert                    20                   --           20
Civil Engineer for Road
Construction and Maintenance         30                   --           30
Training Specialist                    --                   16           16
Equipment Maintenance Technician        16                   4           20
Highway Technicians                    40                   --           40
Total A                          106                  20          126
B.  DROA
Mechanical Engineer                    22                    2           24
Short Terms                             _                   10           10
Total B                           22                  12           34
C.  Volunteers
to SRDR
Mechanic                               20                   10           30
Economist                              15                   15           30
Total C                           35                  25           60
Total A + B + C           163                   57          220
3.14     The heavy infusion of technical assistance under the project is
justified since counterpart staff were made available late in the Second
Feeler Roads Project and, therefore have not yet been fully trained. The
main objective of the technical assistance component is to enable SRDR
staff to assume gradual responsibility for management, planning, operation
and execution of all feeder roads projects. Government agreed to employ by
December 1984 and thereafter continue to maintain in employment qualified
counterpart staff for the duration of the project.
Tra:ining
3-15     A training officer provided under the technical assistance will be
responsible for implementing the training program outlined in Annex 3-6.
The training needs have been evaluated for SRDR's staff only. The DROA's
staff, however will be welcomed on a voluntary basis to participate in
the program. The trainees will be gathered in several groups, taking
into account their geographical work site. The project provides funds
for purchase of training equipment and material and also for the travel



- 21 -
and subsistance of local instructors and trainees on a sliding scale of
OFAF 3,000, 2,000 and 1 ,500 per day based on the grade levels of ins-
tructors and trainees. During negotiations, Government confirmed that it
will implement the training program outlined in Annex 3-6.
F'uture Project Preparation
3.16      The proposed project provides about US$0.63 million for prepa-
ration of a future rural transport project in Benin. The allocation
would be used to finance consultants' servi^es for detailed economic and
engineering studies.
C. Cost Estimate
3.17      The estimated total cost of the prDject, net of taxes and
duties, is US$13.2 million equivalent. The estimated foreign cost
component is US$5.95 million equivalent representing 45% of the total
cost. Cost estimates, in May 1983 prices, are given in the table
below. Annex 3-7 gives a more detailed cost estimate.
Summary Project Cost Estimate
CFAF (million)             US$ (thousand)      % of Total
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total   Base Cost
1. Technical Assistance,
Training and Consultants
Services for future
project preparation     194     675     869         465   1,614   2,079        21
2. Equipment                  40      360     400         96      861     957       10
3. Road Construction and
Periodic Maintenance
(a) Feeder roads        1,583     644   2,227      3,788   1,540   5,328        55
(b) Low standard tracks   144      66     210        345      158     503        5
(c) Periodic maint.      103       41     144        245      100     345        3
4. Maintenance               182       56     238        436      133     569        6
Total Base Cost    2,246   1,842   4,08E       5,375   4,406   9,781       1OC)
Physical contingencies    314     258     572         752     617   1,369        14
Price contingencies       472     387     859       1,129     925   2,054        21
Total Project Cost      3,032   2,487   5,519       7,256   5,948  13,204       135
Rounded                                      7,255   5,945  13,2C0
3.18      The estimated cost of the technical assistance, US$2.079 mil-
lion, is distributed as follows:



- 22 -
Breakdown of Technical Assistance Expenditures
% of
USV'OOO             Base Cost
-  Execution of the work program               1,148                 12
-  Training including equipment
and allowances for trainees                199                  2
-  Assistance bo DROA                            196                  2
-  Preparation of future project                 460                  4.3
-  Socio-economic impact study                    76                  0.7
Total                           2,079                 21
3.19     Cost estimates for equipment are based on recent purchases and
suppliers' quotations to SRDR. Wages and operating costs are based on
the latest available cost accounting data of SRDR dating from April 1983.
Average construction costs (excluding taxes, technical assistance and
equipment depreciation) are US$8,650 and US$4,600 per km of feeder roads
and low standard tracks respectively. Equipment depreciation is esti-
mated at US$650 per km of feeder roads executed by labor intensive
methods and at US$2,250 per km when executed by equipment intensive
methods.
3.20     Physical contingencies of 10% for Technical Assistance and Con-
sulting Services and of 15% on all other components of the project have
been included to allow for increase in quantities. Price contingencies
have been estimated at 12% per year for local expenses and, 8%, 7.5% and
7% for foreign expenditures for the years 1983 through 1985.  Annual
price contingencies for foreign expenditures for 1986 onwards have been
estimated at 6% and 12% for local expenditures for 1986 onwards.
D. Financing Plan
3.21     The project will be financed by IDA, Special Fund administered
by IDA and the Government as follows:
Financing Plan
US$ thousands
Local      Foreign       Total
IDA                   3,120        2,880       6,000
IDA Special Fund      2,935        3,065       6,000
Government            1,200          --         1,200
Total          7,255        5,945       13,200



- 23 -
E. Implementation
3.22      The undisbursed credit under the Second Feeder Road Project
permits SRDR to execute works until around June 1984. Implementation of
the proposed project is expected to start in September 1984. Annex 3-8
shows the implementation schedule for the first year program. The
implementation schedule for the whole project is shown in Annex 3-9.
3.23      As under the First and Second Feeder Roads Projects, the
proposed project will be implemented by MTPCH through DROA. Civil works
will be executed by force account under SRDR's management and maintenance
of equipment entrusted to SEMTP.
F. Procurement
3.24      Procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Amounts and MGethods of Procurement
(US$ million)
Procurement 1Iethod b/        Total Project
Item No.a/  Category   Items to be procured       ICB    __CB       Other      N.A.           Cost
la, lb, Ic     1       Technical assistance,                         2.8D                     2.80
ld, le                 volunteers experts,                          (1.40)                   (1o40)
training, socio-economic
study, future project
preparation
2a, 3c, 4e     2       Road construction equipment, 1.30   1.52                               2.82
spare parts, equip. repairs  (0)   (1.52)                            (1-52)
and maintenance
3d, 4d        3        Locally purchased materials         0.62                               0.62
and tools                           (O)                                (o)
3b, 4b        4        Fuels and lubricants                         1.31 c/                   1.31
(0.92)                   (0.92)
3a, 4a         5       Wages and salaries                                      5.65 d/        5.65
(2.16)        (2.16)
Total project                             1.30      2.14     4.11      5.65          13.20
-07     (-1.52- - 2 32      (2.16)        (6.00)
a! Reference to items in Project Cost amnary (Annex 3-7). Contingencies are included in the amount shown
above.
b/ Amounts enclosed in parentheses indicate amount of IDA Special Fund participation.
c/ From sole source national supplier.
d/ Of &rLch Government will contribute US$1.2 million equivalent.



- 24 -
Technical Assistance and Consultants' services will be procured in ac-
cordance with the Bank's guidelines. Goods manufactured locally would be
given a preference margin of up to 15% or the applicable custom's duty,
whichever is less. All procurement decisions whose estimated costs
exceed US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review.
Government intends to exempt all project components from taxes and other
transfer payments. During negotiations, the Government confirmed its
intention to exempt all project components from taxes and transfer
payments and to apply the procurement methods shown above.
G. Disbursements
3.25      The project is expected to be substantially disbursed by
September 1987 and the proposed Credit closing date is March 1988.  The
IDA and IDA Special Fund Credit would be disbursed on the following
basis:
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA and IDA Special Rand Credit
% Total Estimated cost to be disbursed from
Category         Item             Amounts a /    IDA Credit  IDA Special Fund Credit
(U_S_$'0070)
.1    Technical assistance,
volunteer experts,
training, Socio-economic
study and future project
preparation               2,100              50%                50%
2      Road construction equip.    1,000           100%                 -
Spare parts, equipnent
repairs and maintenance    (1,2W0)           -                 1
3      Locally purchased
materials and tools         500             10%                  --
4      Fuels and lubricants        300              30%                 --
(7W)              -                  70%
5      Wviages and salaries      1,695             40%                  --
(1,605)             -                  38%
6      Unallocated               1,455
(1,445)
Total                    12,000
a7 Amounts enclosed in parenthesis indicate amount of Special Fund Credit



- 25 -
3.26     Disbursement schedules are based on historic experience with the
Second Feeder Roads Project under which 80% of the IDA Credit was dis-
bursed two years after effectiveness. It is thus reasonable to assume
that disbursements under the proposed IDA and Special Fund Credit would
follow a similar pattern (Annex 3-10).
3.27     Monthly statements of expenditures would be prepared for each
brigade and supported by monthly reports showing operating costs, actual
and expected productivity, and the unit construction cost incurred by
each brigade. No disbursement applications less than US$20,000 equi-
valent would be accepted by IDA. A revolving fund of US$400,000
equivalent will be established in two separate accounts of US$200,000
equivalent each and it will be replenished on the basis of the regular
Government reimbursement applications in equal proportions from the IDA
and the Special Fund Credits. Effectiveness of the proposed IDA and
Special Fund Credits would be contingent upon opening of the two Special
Accounts for this revolving fund.
H. Reporting and Auditing
3.28     To provide the Government with appropriate control over expendi-
tures and to enable it to ascertain relationship between costs and phy-
sical progress of the project, a basic accounting and progress reporting
system was established under the Second Feeder Raods Project. Attempts
to integrate cost accounting with physical progress reports under the
Second Feeder Roads Project have recently made significant progress. The
Government agreed to provide monthly reports on operating costs and
performance of each construction brigade (para. 3.27) and quarterly pro-
gress reports on the implementation of the whole project. Auditors
acceptable to the Association will be employed to ensure the Project's
adherence to good financial management. Project and revolving fund
accounts will be audited annually with the audit reports made available
for IDA review six months after the end of the Government's fiscal year.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01     Farm-to-market transport is unreliable in the proposed project's
area of influence because most feeder roads have deteriorated into pedes-
trian tracks. As a result, the regional development agencies are experi-
encing difficulty in implementing rural development schemes, providing
extension services and delivering improved inputs.  In addition, accord-
ing to SRDR estimates, between about a tenth -to one half of the market-
able crops could not be evacuated during the 1980-81 harvest along the
tracks included in the first year construction program of the proposed
project for lack of transport other than porterage.
4.02     Although the proposed projects would cover only 7,5% of the
country, the area in question includes about a fifth of the rural



- 26 -
population of Borgou, Mono, Oueme and Zou provinces, or a total of
290,000 persons (Ref. # 2). The proposed project would provide and
maintain feeder roads in support of the Government's efforts to develop
agriculture, extend the social infrastructure, improve rural living
standards and integrate areas of economic potential into the mainstream
market economy. Additionally, through extension of one-lane tracks, the
Government would be able to expand access to modestly developed
agricultural areas where conventional feeder roads cannot be economically
justified at present. Finally, the proposed project would support the
objectives of the IDA financed Borgou and Zou rural development projects
by improving rural transport through construction/improvement of feeder
roads in these provinces.
B. Benefits and Beneficiaries
Benefits
4.03     Project benefits which are amenable to quantification are the
incremental value added to agricultural production. Value added is de-
rived as a function of production increases plus the avoidance of losses
of potentially marketable crops which would not be evacuated in the
"without" project scenario for lack of reasonable transport and would
thus spoil. Agricultural production increases will occur as a result of
(a) inputs from extension services; and (b) additional lands which will
be brought under cultivation as a result of population increases over the
years. These changes are dependent on the better access which will be
provided by the project roads, and the specific assumptions made in the
analysis are specified in Annex 4-1.
Beneficiaries
4.04     The immediate beneficiaries would be the farmers in the projects
zone of influence. They will benefit from improved access to markets
where they can obtain inputs and sell their crops, from increased mobil-
ity and from availability of social and extension services. Road safety,
comfort and journey time savings resulting from feeder road improvements
(although not quantified as benefit) are important to comniunities which
would now benefit from availability of motorized transport at a reason-
able cost.
4.05     By 1986, an estimated 290,000 rural residents of Borgou, Mono,
Oueme and Zou provinces representing about 8% of the nation's population
will be direct beneficiaries. Of the beneficiaries, about 20,000 would
be people who are expected to migrate to the project's zone of influence
after the roads are improved.
4.06     Average annual per capita incomes in the subregions served by
the roads range from US$85 to US$200 compared with the national average
per capita income of US$300 in 1982. Over the ten-year assumed life
of the proposed project, annual per capita production increases range
from about one half of one percent in Oueme to about 1.6 percent in



- 27 -
Borgou. (The assumed ten-year life of the project reflects the time
needed to achieve productivity increases for selected crops i.e. maize
and the eventual need to rehabilitate most of the project's feeder roads
after ten years of service.) Thus it is expected that the project will
bring proportionately greater benefits to the residents of relatively
poorer areas such as Borgou.
C. Economic Analysis
Methodology
4.07     The time horizon of the project is assumed to be ten years.  The
methodology used to derive incremental value added is based on the produ-
cers surplus approach. SRDR's procedure for estimating the producers'
surplus is outlined below:
(a)   establish, for each province, homogenous agricultural
subregions reflecting crop, pedologic and agronomic cha-
racteristics;
(b)   establish the present population in the zone of influence
of each road (generally, 5 km on either side of the road)
using the 1979 census as a basis and selectively verify
the results in the field (Ref. #1);
(c)   establish standardized farm models for each homogenous
subregion based on experience and data provided by the
CARDERs and spot checked by field visits. Based on the
models, determine the net value of production per capita
for each subregion taking into account the production and
other costs such as extension services and subsidies, if
applicable;
(d)   determine (after adjusting for autoconsumption, on farm
and other losses) the volume and value of potentially
marketable surpluses and the percentage which is currently
unmarketed due to transport constraints (Annex 4-2);
(e)   forecast agricultural production and marketed surpluses in
the "without-project" case based on areas presently culti-
vated (Annex 4-3);
(f)   in the "with-project" case:
(i) forecast population growth in the road influence
area (see Annex 4-1 for details);
(ii) based on field interviews and past experience,
establish an appropriate set of farm models,
include the costs of additional inputs and the
cost of extension services in these models. Based



- 28 -
on these determine a new set of standardized
values for agricultural production per capita
(Ref. #2); and
(iii) assume that all of the marketable surplus will be
marketed after road improvements.
(g)   Estimate incremental producer surplus for each project
year as the difference in the net value of production
marketed in the "with" and "without" project scenarios.
4q08     In estimating incremental value added, possible introduction of
higher value crops has not been considered, benefits from additional on-
farm consumption have been excluded, and adjustments have been made for
on-farm losses (during harvesting as a result of poor storage, consump-
tiorn by rodents et al.) and losses during transportation and marketing
(Annex 4-2).
4.09     Benefits resulting from the transportation of non-agricultural
produacts, and benefits from personal travel (time savings), are not in-
cluded in this approach.  The socio-economic study, while suggesting
benefits of this nature, represents only preliminary findings. Thus, the
proposed project benefits have been conservatively quantified to reflect
weaknesses in SRDR's data base.  A follow up socio-economic impact study
(Annex 3-2) to be carried out under the proposed project is expected to
imnrcve the basis for quantifying benefits of rural road improvements in
Benin, particularly the traffic base.
Costs
4-10     For the economic evaluation all costs are expressed net of
'Taxes.  The construction and maintenance costs are based on the actual
cost of equipment, labor and materials experienced by SRDR during the
Second Feeder Roads Project, updated for subsequent general cost in-
creases. Periodic regravelling of the roads is assumed in the seventh
year Df the ten-year life of roads. No shadow prices were applied to
unskilled labor since there are no indications of serious distortions in
the rural labor market and alternative employment opportunities exist in
local agriculture.  The relevant incremental capital cost of improved
technology i.e. the cost to the farmer of farm equipment and tools, and
other costs such as more intensive use of fertilizer and pesticides,
improved extension services and farm labor are accounted for in deriving
the net value added.  Input subsidies have been added to the farmers cost
to reflect economic costs.  Where applicable, farmers' prices have been
adjusted for subsidies on maize, peanuts, rice and cotton in estimating
incremental value added.
Economic Rates of Return for the 1984 Program
4.11     At this stage only the first year's program has been identified
in detail. Of the 19 roads included in the first project year, the con-
servatively estimated ERR ranges from a low of 16% to a high of 46%



- 29 -
(Annex 4-4). One-third of the ERRs are in the 16% to 20% range while
about one half are in the 20% to 40% range with the rest falling in the
41% to 46% range.  The overall ERR for the first year program is a satis-
factory 29%. Assuming a pessimistic scenario in which the construction
costs increase by 20% and the benefits decrease simultaneously by 20%  the
minimum expected ERR would still be a satisfactory 14% (para. 4.14).i7
Risks and Sensitivity of the ERR
4.12     The economic rates of return are sensitive to the assumptions on
which SRDR's models are based (Ref. #1), to unit construction costs and
to whether the project roads are adequately maintained.  SRDR's models
are based on assumptions relating to adoption of improved farm technology
and population growth. Regarding adoption of improved farm technology,
the models assume that project implementation would be coordinated with
other agencies engaged in rural development and the required complement-
ary investments and services such as extension would be forthcoming at
the right time to induce farmers to improve farming methods. Although
the first year program is, and subsequent programs will be, coordinated
with local development priorities of the CARDER's and approved at the
national level by CNAERDR, there may be a delay in implementing the com-
plementary local development projects and thus the project benefits may
not reach anticipated levels as soon as expected. The population growth
(Annex 4-1) may not fully materialize, thereby reducing the quantity of
agricultural production marketed. Additionally, there is some risk that
the unit construction/improvement costs could be higher than experienced
heretofore and that insufficient maintenance could reduce the useful life
of the roads which would also reduce net benefits and affect the ERRs
adversly.
4.13     Sensitivity tests were performed to assess the negative
impacts of these risks on the ERRs and the results proved satisfactory
(Annex 4-5).  If annual benefits are reduced by 20% to reflect slow and
uncoordinated project implementation (delays in providing the extension
services, et al.) the overall ERR would drop to 19%. Assuaming that the
natural increase in population is 2% per year instead of 2.59% the ERRs
are virtually unaffected and the overall ERR is 28%.  The sensitivity of
the ERR to adequacy of maintenance was also tested.  Maintenance should
certainly be adequate during the life of the project, but in the event
that insufficient maintenance thereafter reduces the useful life of the
roads to six years instead of the expected ten years, the ERR would be
reduced to about 23%. A 20% increase in construction cost would, how-
ever, reduce the overall ERR to 22%.
4.14     In the unlikely event that the construction costs increase  by
20% and the benefits decrease simultaneously by 20%, the overall ERR for
the first year program of the project would be lowered to 14%. Thus,
1/ The median value of ex post estimates of the ERRs for the project
completion report on the First and Second Feeder Roads Projects (now
under preparation) is 25%.



- 30 -
under various combinations of adverse scenarios, the first year program
yields acceptable ERRs.
Risk Miinimization
4.15     There are no other special risks beside slow and uncoordinated
implementation and insufficient maintenance. The risk of slow implemen-
tation would be minimized by: (a) strengthening SRDR through technical
assistance and training of field and office personnel, (b) annual reviews
of SRDR's work programs prior to starting construction; and (c) coordina-
tion of complementary activities through the CARDERs.  In an effort to
assure adequate maintenance the project provides for a separate unit to
be set up in SRDR, and for its operating costs to be financed in accord-
ance with the action plan shown in Annex 3-3. The project would involve
use of some state-owned land for laterite excavation and improvement to
the alignment of existing tracks; this is not expected to produce any
major environmental risks.
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED
5.01     During negotiations, agreements were reached on:
(a)   maintaining CNAERDR for the duration of the project
(para. 2.14);
(b)   work programs for the second and third year;
In case of modification of the second or third year tenta-
tive program (para. 3.04);
(i) roads substituted for those included in the ten-
tative program should have a minimal ERR of 12%;
(ii) each year's work program should reflect a reason-
able geographic coverage in the four provinces;
(c)   work program review and approval:  (i) submission of the
CNAERDR approved second and third years' work programs for
IDA review at least three months before the beginning of
their implementation; and (ii) start of construction only
after IDA approval of the work program (para. 3.04);
(d)   criteria for selecting low-cost tracks (para. 3.07);
(e)   feeder road maintenance and financing: in accordance with
the action plan and employing by December 1984 the heads
of the regional offices and the road supervisors in the
Feeder Roads Maintenance Section (para. 3.10);



- 31 -
(f)   employing by December 1984 and thereafter continuing to
employ qualified counterpart staff for the duration of the
project (3.14);
(g)   auditing and progress reporting:  the extent, details and
deadlines required (para. 3.28).
5.02     The following points were also confirmed:
(a)   socio-economic study:  the terms of reference
(para. 3.08);
(b)   the training program (para. 3.15);
(c)   exemption from taxes and transfer payments for all project
components (para. 3.24); and
(d)   procurement:  intention to apply methods acceptable to the
Association (para. 3.24).
5.03     Effectiveness of IDA and IDA Special Fund Credits:
Effectiveness of the proposed IDA and IDA Special Fund Credits would be
contingent upon opening of special accounts in a commercial Bank for the
two revolving funds to be established (para. 3.27).
5.04     Satisfactory agreements and assurances on the substance of
paras. 5.01 and 5.02 having been obtained during negotiations, the
project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$6 million and a credit of
US$6 million from the Special Fund administered by IDA on standard terms.
WAPT2
Apr. 84



- 32 -
ANNEX 2-1
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
ROAD CONSTRUCTICN AND MAINTENANCE EXPENDITURES AND THEIR FINANCING
(CFAF million)
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982
A.  Total Expenditures
Maintenance                                   404        427        448        625        629      2,025      I,959      1,425
Investments                                 2,276      2,168      39299      2,648      5,048      3,747     3,673      2,750
Unspent                                        88         57          -          -          -          -          -          -
Total                                  2,768      2,652     3,747      3,273      5,677      5,772      5,632      4,175
B.  Local Resources
Contribution from Taxes                       243        252        258        327        281        350        275        480
Ordinary Budget                               309        244        366        332        366        684        641        824
Special Budget                                241        158        190        495        530        332        404        387
Other                                            _               -             143        465         18         31          -
Total                                    793        654        022      1,297      ,642      1,384      1,351      1,691
C.  Foreign Aid
IDA                                           636      1,198      2,071        508      1,639        841        796        610
EDF                                           827        500        67C      1,004      1,339      2,389        737         75
USAID                                         504        300        141        353        661          -          -          -
ADF                                              -          -        37          4        385          -        213         51
ADB                                              -         -          -        107         11        670        599        199
DRNCDF                                                                                 -               -         24        246
Others (OPEC, Kuwait and
Federal Republic of Germany)            8          -          -         _          _        488      1,912      1,303
Total                                  1,975      1,998     2,919       1,976     4,035      4,388      4,281      2,484
Source: MTPCH, Cotonou, undated.
WAPT2
Feb. 1984



- 33 -
ANNEX 2-2
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
SRDR PAST EXPENDITURES
(CFAF million)
1979      1980      1981      1982
Equipment and Spares                         52        98       189       273
Fuel, Supplies & Materials                   40        64        79       151
Wages                                        34       134       184       256
Buildings                                    10        19         -         -
Technical Assistance                        105        41       122       175
Total                                   241       356       574      855
Source: MTPCH (SRDR), Cotonou, undated, November 1983.
WAPT2
Feb. 1984



- 34 -
ANNEX 2-3
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
ESTIMATED RECOVERY OF RECURRENT COSTS ON ROADS
(in CFAF million)
RECURRENT COSTS.a/
Main Roads                                     Feeder Roads
Year         Routine       Periodic b/        Subtotal       Routine        Periodic 57       Subtotal         Total
1983            650          1,640              2,290            71              --                 71         2,361
1984            730          1,770              2,500            92              __                 92         2L592
1985            815          1,910              2,725            120             31                151         2,876
1986            915          2,065              2,980            150             38                188         3,168
1987          1,025          2,230              3,255           170              41                211         3,466
REVENUES
Total Revenues as %
Year        Fuel Taxes c/    Other Excise Duties d/         Total       of Total Recurrent Cost
1983            2,400                 1,000                 3,400                 144
1984            2,400                 1,000                 3,400                 131
1985            2,448                 1,020                 3,468                 121
1986            2,497                 1,040                 3,537                 112
1987            2,547                 1,060                 3,607                 104
a/  Based on estimated needs of main roads and Action Plan for Feeder Roads Maintenance and Its Financing (Annex
3-3); assumed annual inflation is 12% for routine and 8% for periodic maintenance. Periodic maintenance being
capital intensive would be subject mostly to inflation rates in the industrialized countries which are
expected to be lower than domestic inflation.
b/  Periodic maintenance is treated as a recurrent cost because it needs to be recovered annually by revenues from
road user charges.
c/  Assuming 1983-84 fuel consumption does not decline below the 1982 level (96,000 hectolitres after allowing for
losses, re-exports and consumption for purposes other than transport) and fuel taxes remain frozen at the 1983
level. For 1985-87 a conservative 2% annual increase in fuel consumption is assumed but no increase in level
of fuel taxes. Revenues are based on differences between weighted price/lt (CIF Cotonou) and the price after
clearing customs, and exclude port dues and handling charges, the national distributor (SONACOP's) expenses
and profits.  Only specifically identifiable taxes have been considered in estimating revenues.  The weighted
tax/lt on fuel is CFAF 25 in 1983 and includes the road fund levy of CFAF 8/lt for gasoline and CFAF 6/lt for
diesel fuel.
d/  Taxes and duties on imports of new vehicles, spare parts and tires et al.  As data on these continue to be
unreliable, efforts are underway to develop a reliable data bank as part of the preparation of the future
transport infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance project. The consultant's estimate of CFAF 1.9
billion in revenues from these sources has been reduced to CFAF 1 billion for 1983 and 1984 to be on the
conservative side.  For 1985 through 1987 these revenues are projected to grow at 2% annually.
WAPT2
Feb. 1984



- 35 -
ANNEX 2-4
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
INDICATIVE LIST OF THE EQUIPMENT
COMPOSING THE DIFFERENT TYPES OF BRIGADES
Mechanized
Mechanized   Labor-Intensive   Maintenance      Bridges and
Brigade        Brigade         Brigade    Culverts Brigade
Bulldozer D7                        1
Bulldozer D6                       --              1
Grader 120 HP                       1             --                1
Wheeler Loader                      1             -I               __
Agricultural Tractor                2              9                2
Dump Trailers                       2             10                2                1
Dump Trucks                         4             --               --                1
Fuel Tank Truck                    --             -_               __               -_
Water Tank Trucks                   2              1               --               --
Workshop Truck 
Water Tank Trailers                --              2                1                2
Platform Trucks                     1             -_               __               __
Self-Propelled Roller               1             --               -_               __
Towed Roller                       __              1                1
Vibrating Roller                    1               1              __                _
Mobile Compressor                  --             -_               __
Mobile Store Shed                   1              1               --               --
Concrete Mixer                      1              1               --                1
Concrete Vibrator                   1              1               --                2
Water Pump                          2              1                1                1
Pipe Molds                         __             __               _-
Liaison Vehicle                     2              2                2                1
WAPT2
Feb. 84



- 36 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 3
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
FIRST YEAR PROGRAM ADOPTED BY THE CNAERDR ON MAY 21, 1983
Brigade    Road No.                  Route                  Province          Length (km)
Mechanized      *        Bodjecali - Garou                Borgou north              17
17      Baname - Zankoumadon              Zou southeast            12
15      Houegbo - Wokpa                   Zou southeast            10
16      Zangnanado - Zomon - Sagbovi  Zou southeast                17
14      Sagbon - Aize                     Zou southeast             7
12/13       Ouokon - Holly - Monzougoudo
and Holly - Zaloko            Zou southeast            10
38      Gbonago - Abagado                 Oueme north              10
Subtotal   83
Labor 1         29       Agoua - Assaba - Bobe            Zou north                 16
28      Bante - Adjagballo -
Aklamkpa                         Zou north                29
Subtotal   45
Labor 2         *        Beroubouay - Yara                Borgou                    20
22      Logozohe   Lahotan                Zou  north               12
21      Lahotan - Ouedeme                 Zou  north                5
Subtotal    37
Labor 3         *        Fonougo - Kantero                Borgou                     7
1      Lonkly - Voli - Latadji          Mono north                15
2      Lanhouetome - Aplahoue/Atome  Mono north                    6
3      Djakotomey - Kpoba               Mono north                 9
Subtotal   37
Labor 4         *        Bagou - Sori                     Borgou                    16
45      Dunkassa - Bouka                  Borgou                   15
47      Bouanri - Biro                    Borgou                    7
Subtotal   38
Total        240



- 37 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 3
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
TENTATIVE SECOND YEAR PROGRAM
Brigade    Road No.                Route                   Province         Length (km)
Mechanized      38       Gbonago-Abagado                 Oueme north                8
37      Issaba-Masse                     Oueme north               17
40      Pobe-Issale                      Oueme north               15
34      Adja Ouere-Ikpinle               Oueme north               15
35      Adja Ouere - Tatonnoukon         Oueme north               25
36      Ikpinle - Ologo                  Oueme north               20
Subtotal   100
Labor 1         28       Bante - Djagballo - Aklamkpa  Zou north                   26
30      Bante - Lougba                   Zou north                 13
31      Koko - Akpakpa                   Zou north                 11
Subtotal    50
Labor 2         21      Lahotan - Ouedeme                Zou north                  5.5
25      Glazoue - Ouedeme - Yagbo        Zou north                 30
23      Gobada-Zonzoukamey               Zou north                 14.5
Subtotal    50
Labor 3          3      Djakotomey - Kpoba               Mono north                 1
4      Klouekamey - Ahogbeya            Mono north                10
5      Klouekamey - Adjahomey           Mono north                13
6      Hlagbadenou - Deme               Zou south                  7.5
9      Zakpota - Dan Tota               Zou south                 11
8      Zakpota - Zeko                   Zou south                  7.5
Subtotal    50
Labor 4         47       Bouanri - Biro                  Borgou southeast          28
48      Biro - Perere                    Borgou southeast          14
49      Nikki - Tasso                    Borgou southeast           8
Subtotal    50
Total - 1985       300



- 38 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 3
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
TENTATIVE THIRD YEAR PROGRAM
Brigade    Road No.                 Route                  Province         Length (km)
Mechanized      36      Ikpinle - Ologbo                 Oueme north                1
43      Ketou - Sodji                    Oueme north               12
41      Ketou - Ilikinon                 Oueme north               17
44      Ofia - Omon                      Oueme north               14
42      Idigni - Wessou                  Oueme north               24
*       Ketou - Odometa                  Oueme north               12
*       Ketou - Issebou                  Oueme north               20
Subtotal   100
Labor 1          8      ZaKapota - Zeko                  Zou south                  5 5
7      Passagon - Tindji                Zou south                  6
10      Djidja - Kassehlo                Zou south                 23
11      Monsoulou - Dekpegon             Zou south                 15.,5
Subtotal    50
Labor 2         32      Koko - Akpakpa                   Zou north                  4
34      Lougba - Gotcha - Aletan         Zou north                 20
32      Pira - Lougba                    Zou north                 16
26      Thio - Masse                     Zou north                 10
Subtotal    50
Labor 3         23      Gobada - Zonzoukamey             Zou north                  3*5
18      Dassa - Miniffi                  Zou north                 15
19      Soclogbo - Miniffi               Zou north                  7.8
20      Paouignam - Agbogbomey           Zou north                 23.7
Subtotal    50
Labor 4         49      Nikki - Tasso                    Borgou southeast          24
46      Nassi - Sandiro                  Borgou southeast          26
Subtotal    50
Total               300
Inventory number not assioned.  Carry over from the Second Peeder Roads Project.
Source: MTPCH, June 21, 1983.
WAPT2
Feb. 1984



- 39 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 6
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACT STUDY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
I GENERAL
1.       A socio-economic impact study was carried out under the Second
Feeder Roads Project. The study, completed in May 1983, was based on
quarterly traffic surveys carried out over a one-year period on eleven
sample roads. The study developed and tested a field methodology
(including traffic survey designs and sampling procedures) and esta-
blished baseline data on a sample of improved roads in rural Benin. The
conclusions of the study are:
(a)   Traffic growth on recently improved roads has far exceeded
appraisal expectations, particularly in areas of high
population density and in border zones;
(b)   A large proportion of the traffic on the sample of roads
studied consists of two-wheelers;
(c)   A relatively small proportion of *the total traffic appears
to be dedicated to the transport of agricultural inputs
and outputs;
(d)   A relatively large proportion of total traffic appears to
be related to passenger travel; and
(e)   Traffic on rural roads in Benin is predominantly local
rather than long distance, domestic rather than foreign
and private rather than public.
II. OBJECTIVES
2.       As part of the Third Feeder Roads Project, the Government of
Benin wishes to undertake a second socio-economic impact study, building
upon the base established under the Second Feeder Roads Project. The
purposes of this study are:
(a)   Evaluate the medium-term (10-year) needs for feeder roads
improvements;



- 40 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 6
(b)   To improve the data base and to refine the currently used
methodology for the appraisal of future feeder road
improvement; and
(c)   To develop a methodology for screening and evaluating low-
cost track improvements.
III. SCOPE OF WORK
3.       Medium-term feeder roads needs.  A list of approximately
10,000 kms. of potential feeder roads has been identified by SRDR in
association with the CARDERs covering the country. Approximately 2,130
kms. will have been improved under Bank-financed projects by 1987.
Others will have been improved under projects presently financed by other
donors such as GTZ, FED and UNCDF. After these roads are eliminated from
th,s list, the remaining roads need to be screened and selected for
priority improvements.
4.       SRDR will request CARDERs to provide additional information on
each of the candidate roads, including;
(a)   A map showing road locations and impact zones;
(b)   Estimates of the population in each impact zone;
(c)   List of markets served by each road with a measure of
their importance (size, frequency);
(d)   Estimated agricultural production potential (in tons after
ten years, based on expected population growth); and
(e)   Classification of each road in terms of level of service
(categories A-E as defined in earlier projects), together
with an indication of major structures to be replaced.
This information should be available from each CARDER. It should not be
necessary for SRDR staff to visit each road in order to conduct this
preliminary screening.
5.       The Economic Division of SRDR will than apply its present
screening methdology, based on the population, market size, and product-
ive potential data, to estimate the order of magnitude of potential bene-
fits. Similarly, the length of road, level of service , and major struc-
tures will provide an order of magnitude estimate of potential costs.
This information will be used to prioritize the planned investments.
Roads will be ranked in order of priority within provinces, and high
priority roads will be selected for further economic evaluation, allowing
for the possibility that some roads may be accepted by the screening
process that are not, in fact, economically viable investments. Based on
the volume of work to be done, SRDR's capacity to execute it will be
evaluated and the required organizational, management, financial and



- 41 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 3 of 6
technical criteria established. Particular attention will be paid to the
staffing and construction techniques to be used to accomplish the medium-
term program.
6.       The present economic evaluation methodology is based on a pro-
ducer surplus approach. The two main variables affecting the relative
priority of specific roads within a group of districts are (1) population
served and (2) percent of current production not marketed due to trans-
port constraints. SRDR staff would field check the data provided by
CARDERs on these two points.  In addition, SRDR will make a more detailed
cost estimate based on a field visit, at this point, for each of the
candidate roads. With these data, the expected rate of return for the
specified road improvement can be calculated. Rates of return would then
be used, in conjunction with commonsense and the criterion that each
year's program should be fairly evenly distributed over the country, to
develop annual work programs corresponding to SRDR's projected capacity.
7.       Traffic Studies.  These studies will complement the work carried
out under the Second Feeder Roads Project. A sample of twelve roads will
be selected representing the four major ecological regions of the coun-
try. Eight of these will be recently improved roads and four will be
roads to be improved under the Third Feeder Roads Project, which will
serve as control roads. Seven of the improved roads will be selected
from the sample of roads already studied under the Second Feeder Roads
Project, representing the regions of the south, (two each in Mono and
Zou-South), the center (two in Zou-North), and the northwest (one in
Atacora). An eighth improved road will be selected in the northeast
(Borgou) region. The four control roads will be selected from the 1985
improvement program in each region.
8.       The design and implementation strategy of traffic surveys devel-
oped and tested under the Second Feeder Roads Project is satisfactory.
The traffic survey will be similar to the one developed and tested in
the first phase of the study. A few items may be eliminated (e.g.,
national/foreign, public/private) and others added (e.g., multipurpose
trips) to meet data needs for refining the evaluation methodology. Quar-
terly one-week counts and O-D surveys will be carried out over a period
of three years at two survey posts on each of the twelve study roads.
Vehicle and passenger sampling and procedures will be adapted based on
experience and the detailed information derived from! the Second Feeder
Roads Project.
9.       An initial reconnaissance will be required in order to explain
the planned study to local officials and to identify a sample road for
Borgou and a control road in each region. During this reconnaissance,
the study staff will collect baseline data on impact zone population,
production patterns, transport services, vehicle ownership, migration,
and road safety. These data will be collected at the village level. A
short interview form will be prepared for this purpose. The study staff
will also recruit and train local interviewers and will make adminis-
trative arrangements for the surveys (construction of barriers, local
security, etc.) during this stage.



- 42 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 4 of 6
10.      The calendar of surveys will be developed so as to permit the
study supervisory staff to be present wherever a survey is taking place.
It will also be consistent, insofar as possible, with the calendar of
surveys undertaken during the Second Feeder Roads Project on the sample
roads. Before each count, the study staff will meet with local officials
and will collect current data on transport services, migration and road
safety. The study staff will also be responsible for monitoring the
traffic surveys and collecting and checking the data at the end of each
co unt .
I1       After each count, data from each road will be coded and stored
on diskettes. Preliminary descriptive statistics for each road will then
be generated. A computer program has already been developed for this
purpose.  A master file of descriptive data will be built up from these
preliminary results. A statistical program to test selected hypotheses
on the data contained in the master file will be developed during the
third year of the study.
12.      These hypotheses will relate growth in various types of traffic
(freight and passenger traffic, motorized and non-motorized means of
transport, agricultural freight (perishable and non-perishable) non-
agricultural freight, passenger trips by purpose and by means of trans-
port, local, regional, long-distance and through traffic), as dependent
variables to: (a) characteristics of the road improvement (regional vs.
local roads, reductions in vehicle operating costs, reductions in travel
times, change in the availability of public transport services); (b) charac-
teristics of persons travelling on the roads (age, sex, occupation,
household income, vehicle ownership); and (c) characteristics of the commu-
nities served by the roads (size, agricultural production, nonfarm em-
ployment, markets, services) as independent variables. The data will
also be disaggregated by region (province) to see if any significant
variations in traffic patterns can be related to broad differences in the
physical or sociocultural environment.
1 ,. TlLhe study results will improve the data base on feeder road
traffic patterns substantially be expanding coverage to more roads, by
providing measures of change over time on roads studied under the Second
Feecder Roads Project, and by collecting baseline data on control roads.
The analys:is of factors related to the growth of traffic in specific
commodities and to the growth of passenger travel, as well as to mode
shifts arnd the diversion of through traffic, will shed some light on the
validity and comprehensiveness of the currently used economic evaluation
methodology for feeder road improvements. It is expected that the
agricultural benefits conservatively forecast by the present model, and
corresponding to a relatively small number of vehicle trips per day, will
be substantiated by the study. More importantly, it is expected that the
study results will demonstrate that there are major additional benefits
to te derived from the transport of non-agricultural freight and
passenger travel.



- 43 -                         ANNEX 3-2
Page 5 of 6
14.      Monitoring and evaluation low-cost track improvements.  Changes
in sample communities served bv low-cost track improvements will be
monitored. As this is a pilot project component, only baseline data,
changes during construction, and traffic levels immediately following the
opening of an improved track can be measured within the project time
frame. A sample of four tracks will be selected, one in each region,
from among those to be improved under the Third Feeder Roads Project. In
addition, a sample of four villages in the impact zone of the improved
roads and connected to them by a footpath, but not participating in the
track improvement program, will be selected as controLs. Data will be
collected over a three-year period including the time prior to the
construction of the improved feeder road, during construction of the road
but prior to the track, and after construction is completed on both the
feeder road and the track which connects to it.
15.      Since, by definition, each track to be improvred will be less
than 10 km long and will connect to a feeder road being improved, the
track's influence area will lie almost entirely within the road's influ-
ence area. The study will be designed to distinguish between changes
attributable to the road improvement only, as distincl from the road-
plus-track combination. It is expected that differences may be found in
at least the following areas: area served by the track, frequency of
trips, number of vehicles using the tracks, seasonality of traffic, vehi-
cle types used for passenger travel and freight transport, and quantities
and types of freight transported. Pedestrian traffic will also be in-
cluded in this study.
16.      One enumerator will be recruited and trained for each sample
track to be studied. Research will consist of periodic (quarterly) one-
week traffic counts and interviews on the tracks, using forms to be dev-
eloped and tested by SRDR, complemented by field reports on periodic
visits to the villages, according to an agreed format.  Work on the track
impact monitoring program will be spot checked by supervisory staff on a
regular basis. In addition, traffic counts will be carried out before
and after construction on the feeder roads to which the improved and
control tracks connect.
17.      Reporting.  SRDR staff will prepare three reports as a result of
this study. The first will identify the medium-term needs for rural road
improvements based on the evaluation of the roads in the inventory. It
will also review the adequacy of data collected under the pilot phase of
the socio-economic impact study and propose specific measures to be taken
to improve these data during the second phase. The selected sample and
control roads on which the study will be continued will be identified and
briefly described. Finally, the sample selection procedures and proposed
data collection program for the monitoring of low-cost track improvements
will be presented in this report. This report will be due approximately
9 months following credit effectiveness.
18.      The second study report will present the results of the economic
evaluation of indicative projects and a ten-year program of proposed
improvements broken down by discrete annual work programs for SRDR.



- 44 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 6 of 6
Analysis of the first round traffic survey results will focus on com-
parisons between the data found on the improved roads and the control
roacs durine the first year of the study.  It will also present baseline
date on tracks and the roads to which they connect. This report will be
due about a year and a half after the study is started.
19.      The third and final report will describe patterns of traffic
growth and changes over time on sample and control roads and tracks.  It
will compare changes on the sample roads with changes on the control
roads and changes on the sample tracks with changes on the control
tracks. Based on the findings of the track monitoring program, it will
propose a methodology for the evaluation of proposals to build low-cost
track improvements in Benin.
IV. STAFFING AND SCHEDULE
20.      Staffing.  The study is estimated to require about six years of
professional staff time, in addition to the periodic services of field
interviewers, coders, and support staff, and a small amount of technical
assi3tance. The professional staff-time will cover a period of three
monIls for detailed study design, two-and-a-half years of data collection
and orocessing, and three months of final report preparation.  It will
requ:Lre the services of a Beninese study director and a study supervisor
(ha]f time) over the three-year period. Both will be economisoGs with
subsoantial experience in the planning and programming activities of the
Feeder Road Program in Benin.  A volunteer expatriate economist's ser-
vicec are being solicited to assist the Economic Division of SRDP for the
dureLtion of the study. This position is expected to be filled by a Dutch
vo` unteer.
21.      Technical Assistance.  Specialized technical assistance may be
needed in the design phase for the formulation of a work program for
monitoring low-cost tracks, the development of traffic sampling techni-
queE, and the refinement of data processing plans and programs. The
necessary expertise can be obtained locally from the National Univer-
sity. Further interventions may be requested later at the discretion of
the study sucervisor, to solve problems that may arise during implement-
ation.
220      Schedule. The detailed study design is expected to be ready by
about November 1984. The design will include the selection of sample and
control roads, location of survey posts, preparation of a survey calen-
dar, ievelopnent of traffic sampling techniques, reconnaissance acti-
vities and baseline data collection, interviewer recruitment and train-
ing, and preparation of a plan for monitoring change in communities
served by low-cost track improvements.  Three annual cycles of counts
will begin in June and end in March of the following year.
WAPT2
Jan. "984



- 45 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 4
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
ACTION PLAN FOR FEEDER ROADS MAINTENANCE AND ITS FINANCING
A. Creation of a Feeder Roads Maintenance Section
1.       The DPTPs are in charge of the maintenance of the classified
roads network. SRDR maintains the feeder roads. The Government is
making significant efforts to extend the responsibility of DPTPs to the
entire network and to provide sufficient funding for road maintenance. A
transport infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance project is in
preparation; its objectives are, inter alia, to make appropriate arrange-
ments for timely and sufficient funding for road maintenance and to rein-
force the DPTP's capacity for executing road maintenance. However, there
will be a transitory period between implementation of the project and the
transfer of technology and maintenance capability to the DPTPs.  During
this transition which is expected to last until about 1988, SRDR would
maintain all the feeder roads constructed under the previous IDA, UNCDF
and EDF feeder roads projects.
2.       Pending the development of DPTPs' capacity to assume maintenance
of the network, a feeder roads maintenance section (FRIS) will be created
and temporarily attached to SRDR. This section is expected to be inte-
grated later in the SER within the framework of the transport infra-
structure rehabilitation and maintenance project. It will be managed by
an experienced Beninese engineer assisted by an expatriate specializing
in road maintenance during the implementation of the Third Feeder Roads
Project. It will be in charge of:
-     Planning, programming and executing routine and periodic
maintenance of the feeder roads built under IDA, EDF and
UNCDF financed programs;
-     Defining work performance standards and service levels
according to the different classes of traffic and budget-
ing the financial needs for feeder roads maintenance;
-     Coordinating and supervising the work of the maintenance
brigades in the field; and
-     Supervising the maintenance done by DTPTs on those feeder
roads with which they have been entrusted.



- 46 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 4
3.       FBRIS will have three regional offices.  Each regional office
will be managed by a senior highway technician assisted by at least one
sutpervisor to ensure that maintenance is carried out as planned. FRMS
will have two mechanized maintenance brigades: one for the two large
northern provinces of Atacora and Borgou and the second for all of the
southern provinces. These mechanized brigades will carry out seasonal
grading where and when necessary and other minor improvements in accord-
ance with established work performance standards. The regional offices
will supervise the work of these mechanized maintenance brigades.
4.       Rout;ine maintenance will be done by several gangs of laborers
supervised by the regional offices. The gangs for routine maintenance
(about 20 laborers) would be set up based on the average of one worker
per 5 km of f'eeder road to be maintained.  Additionally each regional
office will have a gang for emergency maintenance (about 15 laborers
each).
5.       FRMS is expected to be established not later than December 31,
1984, and fully operational not later than June 1985.
B. Roads to be Maintained by SRDR
6.       Upon the completion of the proposed project, the Feeder Roads
constructed by SRDR will be as follows:
First Feeder Roads Project                 350 km
Second Feeder Roads Project                600 km
Third Feeder Roads Project                 840 km
EDF Project                                120 km
UNCDF Project                              220 km
Total                      2,130 km
Three hundred kilometers of feeder roads are presently being maintained
by DPTPs. This quantity could possibly be increased if the quality of
DPTP's work is satisfactory. The network to be maintained by SRDR will
represent about 1,600 km for both routine and periodic maintenance.
C. Implementation Schedule
Periodic and Routine Maintenance
7.       The work program for periodic and routine maintenance is based
on the construction schedule of the Third Feeder Roads Project. Its
annual composition is as follows:



- 47 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 3 of 4
The Feeder Roads Network to be Maintained
(in km)
Year           Routine           Periodic       Total
SRDR     DPTPs         SRDR
1985      1,125        300          a/          1,425
1986      1,350        300          a/          1,650
1987      1,350        300         250         1,900
1988      1,350        500         280         2,130
1989      1,350        500         280         2,130
1/  No periodic maintenance is required during the first two
years of the project.
D. Cost Estimate
8.       Annual routine maintenance costs are estimated at US$140 per km
in 1984 prices. An inflation rate of 12% per year has been assumed for
subsequent years.  Periodic maintenance costs, including about 60% of
foreign exchange, are estimated at about US$520 per km, also in 1984
prices, with an annual inflation rate of 10% per year for subsequent
years. Based on these unit costs, the total funding needs (excluding
technical assistance and equipment amortization) to ensure adequate
maintenance are:
In US$'000
Year      1985   1986   1987   1988   1989    Total
Routine maintenance
executed by
(a) SRDR                   160    215    250    280    315    1,220
(b) DPTPs                   50      55     60     70      80      315
Periodic maintenance
(executed by SRDR)         -       -    160    185   C205       550
Total      210    270    470    535    600    2,085
E. Financing
9.       Financing of the feeder road maintenance program is the obli-
gation of the Government through the Road Fund. As part of the proposed
transport infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance project, the Road
Fund would be restructured and appropriate arrangements will be made to
ensure sufficient funding for maintenance needs. The Government in the



- 48 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 4 of 4
rneantime has already decided to levy some earmarked taxes on selected
agricultural commodities to maintain the feeder roads. To help give a
head start during the initial period of implementation, the Association
is willing to participate in feeder roads periodic maintenance financing
on the same basis as in construction works. IDA will finance routine
maintenance on a declining percentage basis as follows:
Year          1985      1986     1987      1988
Percent of IDA Contribution              80        50        30        0
10.      After the completion of the project, Government will  finance all
feeder roads maintenance expenditure as listed in para. 8 from its bud-
getary resources.
11.      The Government agrees to show in its annual budgets a separate
item for all sums allocated to the maintenance of feeder roads included
in this action olan. For the next five years, the Government's budgetary
allocations should not be less than:
In US$'000
Year       1985   1986   1987   1988   1989    Total
Government                   42    135    294    350    600    1,421
WAPT2
Mar. 84



- 49 -
ANNEX 3-4
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
EQUIPMENT TO BE PURCHASED
Item                     Unit Cost       Quantity        Amount
US$                            US$
Agricultural tractors (85 HP)           18,300           11          201,300
Dump trailers                             4,200            9           37,800
Dump trucks (7T)                        45,000             1          45,000
Water tank trucks (6m3)                 45,000             3          135,000
Platform trucks (30T)                   35,000             3          105,000
Pick-ups                                 8,500            13          110,500
Four-wheel drive vehicles               11,250             2          22,500
Cars                                     7,000             2          14,000
Shaping blades for tractors               1,500            6           9,000
Front shovels for tractors               11,000            4          44,000
Concrete mixers                          8,500             6          51,000
Water pumps                               2,000            8           16,000
Air compressors                          3,000             4          12,000
Concrete vibrators                       3,000             6           18,000
Battery chargers                            500            7           3,500
Pipe molds                                4,000            6           24,000
Workshop equipment                       3,000             3            9,000
Workshop tools
and handtools                                                est.   87,000
Mobilettes                                  600           20         _12,000
Total                                                       956,600
Rounded                                                     957,000



- 50 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 8
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
TERMES DE REFERENCE DE L'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE
AU TROISIEME PROJET DE ROUTES RURALES AU BENIN
1. Objectifs
Les objectifs assignes a l'assistance technique sont:
(a)   assister le SRDR pour l'ex6cution du projet:
(b)   ameliorer les capacites de planification et de programmation
des travaux a entreprendre par le SRDR en particulier et la
DROA en general;
(c)   concevoir et executer un programme de formation de tout le
personnel SRDR en particulier et de la DROA en general de
maniere a:
(i) assurer la releve progressive de toute l'assistance
technique;
(ii) obtenir un accroissement sensible de la productivite
des brigades en aidant le personnel d'execution a
mieux assimiler les techniques de construction et de
maintenance du materiel.
(d)   aider le SRDR a mettre en place une section d'entretien des
routes rurales.
2. Composition de l'equipe
La composition de 1'equipe d'assistance technique et le temps de
prssence de chaque expert sont decrits ainsi qu'il suit:



- 51 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 8
A. Assistance technique au SRDR
Quantite            Position                   Responsabilites            Dur~e
(h/mois)
1      Responsable adminis-        Toutes questions admin.
tratif et comptable         et comptables du projet               20
1      Ing6nieur homologue         Supervision technique
chef de la division         du projet                             30
technique du SRDR
2      Techniciens superieurs      Travaux du terrain                    40
1      Technicien maintenance
du materiel                 Materiel                              20
1      Expert formateur                                                  16
Total partiel                                          126
B. Assistance technique a la DROA
1      Ingenieur mecanicien                                              24
Specialistes formation courte duree (a la demande)                10
Total partiel                                           34
Total A + B = 160 h/mois
C. Volontaires de l'assistance neerlandaise
1      M6canicien                                                        30
1      Economiste                                                        30
Total partiel                                           60
Total A + B + C = 220 h/mois
3. Qualifications
Tous les experts de l'Assistance Technique doivent avoir une par-
faite connaissance du fran,ais et une experience de formateur dans leur
specialite, et avoir travaille dans un ou plusieurs pays en voie de deve-
loppement. Les qualifications et fonctions specifiques des membres de
l1'quipe devront etre:
(a)   Expert administratif et compatable (20 h/mois)
Sous lVautorite du Chef SRDR, et en collaboration avec un
homologue beninois, cet expert sera charge de la gestion
administrative et comptable du projet.
Il aura en particulier a mettre en place ou a renforcer un
systeme de comptabilite matiere et de comptabilite analy-
tique.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 3 of 8
11 sera egalement responsable de l'approvisionnement correct
des chantiers et de la passation de toutes les commandes
n'cessaires au fonctionnement du projet.
I1 aura egalement la charge du calcul des prix de revient
des travaux et la responsabilite de l'dition des rapports
periodiques, en collaboration avec l'ingenieur charge de la
supervision.
I1 devra former son homologue beninois qui doit necessai-
rement etre en mesure de prendre la releve avant la fin du
projet.
Qualifications:
Ing'nieur Civil ou Administrateur diplime d'une Ecole supe-
rieure de gestion ayant une experience d'au moins dix ans
dans la gestion administrative et comptable. Une bonne
connaissance de l'Administration des Travaux Publics en
Afrique est souhaitable.
(b)   Ingenieur charge de la supervision des travaux et de 1'en-
tretien routier (30h/mois):
En collaboration avec son homologue Ingsenieur Beninois, cet
expert aura pour tache:
(i) la planification et la programmation des travaux;
(ii) d'etablir les ordres de grandeur des rendements a
atteindre pour chaque brigade compte tenu des con-
textes locaux et de s'assurer cue les travaux s'exe-
cutent conform6ment aux previsions;
(iii) d'assurer sur le chantier tout l'appui technique
necessaire pour la realisation de travaux de qualite
(Reconnaissance prealable du -'race, leves topogra-
phiques, adaptations des travaux ou des ouvrages au
contexte sp6cifique, etc.);
(iv)  de rediger un guide pratique a l'intention des chefs
de brigades dans le but de les aider a mieux orga-
niser les chantiers et ameliorer les techniques de
construction;
(v) d'assister le chef SRDR pour la creation, et la
structuration d'une section d'entretien routier,
notamment mettre en place un systeme de budg8ti-
sation, etablir les procodures de fonctionnement de
cette section par rapport aux Directions regionales;



53 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 4 of 8
(vi)  etablir un programme annuel d'entretien des routes
rurales, organiser les equipes d'entretien et leur
assurer la logistique pour la realisation des tra-
vaux;
(vii)  rediger un manuel pratique pour lVentretien des
routes rurales decrlvant les differentes taches et
les rnethodes d'organisation, de realisation des
travaux et de determiner les elements de definition
des ceuts d entretlenc
Qualifications:
Ingenieur civil d'une tres haute compe+r1ce technique tant
en matiere d'etudes, de controle et d'organisation de tra-
vaux routiers.  Il doit avoir une experience d'au moins 10
ans dans le domaine des travaux rcutiers, dont au moins 3
ans en Afrique.  Tout en etant base a Cotonou cet Ingenieur
devra faire preuve d'une tres grande mobilite et -faire
preuve d'ure aptitude reelle a preradre des initiatives sur
le terrain.  Une experience dans l_oorganisation des systemes
d'entretien routier sera hautement anprec:i7
(a)  T'7echniciens superieurs clii.arges de la coordination des tra-
vaux sur le terrain T-  x 20 h/mois)
Elements essentiels d'appui t_ecI-bique aux chefs de brigades
les deux techniciens superieurs seront bas6s dans les zones
geographiques ou3 se d9rouleront les travauxv  Tls auront
pour taches essentielles.
-  de coordonner et de superviser les differentes bri-
gades
-  de veiller a la qualite des travaux selon les stan-
dards techniques admis
-  de veiller a la bonne organisation et a l'approvi-
sionnement permanent du chantier pour maintenir un
bon niveau de proCdIativite
-  d'assurer la liaison entre les chantiers et les
eche'ons centraux du SCRDR particulierement en ma-
ti3re d'approvisionnement
- d'apporter appui technique pour l'ex&cution des
travaux d'entretien routier
Qualificationse
Conducteur de travaux ayant une tres borne connaissance en
trace routier, organisation et execution de travaux routiers
en Afrique, en particulier des routes en terre. Une expe-
rience professionnelle d'au moins 5 ans est necessaire.  Une
aptitude de formateur sera appreciee.



- 54 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 5 of 8
(d)   Technicien pour la maintenance du materiel
En collaboration avec l'Ingenieur Mecanicien place aupres du
chef du SEMTP, ce technicien aura specifiquement pour taches
la maintenance du materiel affecte au SRDR tant pour les
travaux de construction que pour l'entretien routier. A ce
titre il doit :
(i)  veiller sur le terrain a l'entretien preventif
rigoureux du materiel;
(ii) gerer les pieces detachees et carburants destines au
projet au niveau des brigades;
(iii)  Proceder aux reparations du mat'eriel affecte sur les
chantiers, et former sur le tas les mecaniciens
beninois;
Qualifications
Formation de Technicien Superieur M6canicien avec une
experience pratique reconnue et une tres bonne connaissance
de remise en etat de materiels et engins routiers.
Exp5rience de formation pratique sur le tas de conducteurs
et mecanicien de chantier.
(e)   Expert formateur: (16 h/mois)
Cet expert aura pour tache de planifier, programmer, coor-
donner et supervuser toutes les actions de formation du
personnel 'SRDR d'abord, de tout le personnel de la DROA
ensuite.
Ces actions doivent viser essentiellement:
(i) la formation du personnel d'execution (travaux rou-
tiers, maintenance du materiel, gestion des maga-
sins, comptabilite analytique et comptabilite ma-
tiere);
(ii)  la formation des homologues appeles a remplacer les
experts charges de l'assistance technique au projet;
(iii)  la formation de formateurs beninois qui pourront
continuer les actions de recyclage par la suite.
L'expert formateur de l'equipe d'assistance technique assis-
tera le SRDR en particulier et la DROA en general dans la
preparation d'un programme de formation qlui sera fonde sur
les points suivants:



- 55 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 6 of 8
(i) recensement du personnel technique d'execution
existant et determination des besoins pour assurer
integralement l'execution des travaux et l'entretien
du reseau de routes rurales;
(ii)  repartition par categorie de personnel a former en
indiquant le nombre de specialistes assignes a cha-
que categorie. Au cas oui il ne serait pas possible
de prevoir des cycles de formation ou de recyclage
pour toutes les categories simultanement il y aura
lieu de determiner les priorites suivant l'urgence
de l'utilisation du personnel;
(iii) description detaillee du programme de formation
professionnelle pour chaque categorie avec planning
de mise en place. Les methodes de formation propo-
sees seront soigneusement decrites;
(iv) analyse des besoins de perfectionnement et de recy-
clage du personnel du SRDR en place ou a recruter
suivant trois axes:
- activites administratives et comptables
- activit6s de travaux routiers
E entretien routier
-  activites de maintenance
=entretien du materiel
Cet expert en tant que responsable de la formation fera
appel au besoin a des specialistes pour dispenser des cours
de formation de courte duree, aux autres membres de l'equipe
d'assistance technique et aux volontaires de l'assistance
neerlandaise en utilisant au mieux leurs competences
particulieres.
Qualifications:
Ingenieur civil particulierement experimente dans le domaine de la
formation et du perfectionnement du personnel et de l'organisation
des services routiers.
(f)   Ingenieur mecanicien (24 h/mois)
Place aupres du chef du SEMTP cet expert aura principalement
pour t'aches de:
(i) superviser la maintenance du materiel tant des bri-
gades de construction que d'entretien;
(ii) etablir un guide pratique pour l'entretien preventif
a l'intention des conducteurs et mecaniciens au
niveau des brigades;



56 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 7 of 8
(iii)  participer a la formation de mecaniciens, magasi-
niers et gestionnaires des pieces detachees en liai-
son avec !'expert formateur;
(iv)  etablir les procedures dVapprovisionnement et de
gestion de mini-stock, de pieces detachees, de
carburants, lubrifiants et en controler
; utilisation.
(g)   Formateurs specialistes
II sera fait appel a. des experts pour des cycles de forna-
tion de courte duree, particulierement pour les cadres de
haut et moyen niveaux et les formations specialisees.
Volontaires de lVassistance neerlandaisei
(a)   Volontaire m5canicien (30 h/mois)
Taches
(i) Assister le chef de la brigade mecanisee dans lVexe-
cution de son programme de travail et assurer l1en-
tretien preventif du materiel;
(ii)  Assurer ia formation technicue sur le tas des con-
ducteurs et mecaniciens de chantier.
Qualifications
Experience reconnue dans le domaine de travaux routiers
mecanisas, et une certaine experience de formateur.
(b)   Tolonrtaire Economiste (30h/mois)
Taches:
(i) Participer a l'organisation des activites de
formation du Centre de Formation de Cotonou;
(ii)  Aider a la realisation de letude d'impact socio-
economique des routes de desserte rurale; et
(iii) Aider a developper la participation des localites au
proSet.
Qualifications
Bonne connaissance en economie appliquee avec une bonne
exnerienne des aetivites sociales et oreanisationnelles.
WAP12
Apr. 84



CAIf1R  FOR TICAL ASME
. __ _  -P-   ir9tYear                                              SBCc1r Y                                           !ehirdYer   _ -        -1b
rs&tio       re                 1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9   10  11  12   1  2  3  4  5  6  71                      I1   12  -1  2   3  4  5                        9
a Aoxmtant __ert         -  - }                  -  - |      -
2. Civil engiteer for  m.                          -                              --
& Road YAIntawno-e 
3. TedciLan No. I (South)    -               -                                                            t0 _  -   D    -  +  -  -  -
4. Techyian No. 2 (Nort)           -  -            -                                                        _ -  !
5oiningFtipert~~~~~~~~~~am                              t-mml= 1_F--l S|lll     1 6  u
5. Traiumn  rPe~rt                   i~- --                                                  -1
6. ~intome Thchicn                                     m  | -                     -     1 1 .        1---  _    I- ES -   !    II12
7. Ybcibnical  Wgineer                                    m             -   -    -   -  -   -        - _     -  -   -   -               - |                                              24
S. %ort 1te s                                                                       1 am                                                             - Nam
TOVlj Yarnths per Year               |             68     - 43%                                      69     43_ %                              L        23 =14G                         1
_ote_   Me periods of leve are inicative, Ihe tirin!g bas to b- fixed depeniing aa the initija2  mnt of p   tjecls' iMnpnitatiln
and in acordance viit the experts' perxni cxxstrantraa.
Ar. 84



- 58 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 4
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
TRAINING PROGRAM
Objectives
1.       The objectives of the program are to:
(a)   improve SRDR and DROA's capacity to plan and coordinate
and execute their work program;
(b)   continue the training actions already started under the
Fourth Highway Project; and
(c)   prepare and implement new training materials for SRDR's
personnel, and, on a voluntary basis, for DROA's per-
sonnel.
Existing Situation
2.       SRDR personnel includes about 274 high level staff, technicians
and, skilled workers: 10 heads of sections and sub-sections, 9 accountants
and assistants, 17 administrative staff attached to the brigades, 9 heads
of brigade, 25 foremen, 75 heads of gang, one chief mechanic, 24 mecha-
nics and helpers, 66 drivers and operators, 13 store keepers, and 25
bricklayers. Three main positions are not filled: the chief of the admi-
nistrative and financial division, one economist for the economic divi-
sion and the chief of the financial section. Two accountants are also
needed for the financial section. The head of the brigade in charge of
bridge construction is also the head of one feeder roads maintenance
brigade (the one in the northern region).  SRDR also employs about 1,500
piece-workers who are trained on-the-job. Training for the piece-workers
is not included in this program.



- 59 -                          ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 4
3.       The educational background of SRDR's personnel is as follows:
Position Occupied                                  Education/Training
School          Training                           No Fonnal
University  High Prinsay  Technical Vocational  Apprenticesip  Education/Training
Section Head            x
Accountant                        x     x
Administrative
(Assigned to Brigades)
Brigade Head                      x             x
Head of Maintenance Gang                                                                 x
Record Keeper (Brigade)                 x
Chief Mechanic                          x                  x             x
Mechanic                                x                  x             x
Mechanic's Helper                                                        x
Store Keeper                            x
Foreman                                 x
Bricklayer                                                               x
Existing Training Resources
4.       A training center, created under the 4th Highway Project, is in
operation for training of mechanics and auto electricians. It is headed
by a mechanical engineer who receives on-the-job training through the
technical assistance provided under that project. Eight instructors
(five mechanics and three electricians) are also being trained. These
instructors are assigned part-time to the training center. Training
manuals and aids have been prepared/purchased. Video equipment and
equipment for reproduction of documents exists in the center. Mechanics
and auto electricians are given theoretical classroom training which is
supplemented by practical training given in two small areas set aside
within SEMTP's main workshop for practical training. Under the Second
Feeder Road Project formal training has been of a limited extent. Two
training manuals have been prepared and are being reviewed by SRDR; one
presenting the administrative procedures and the other a very praccical.
one related to all the activities and tasks to be performed by a labor-
intensive brigade for both construction and maintenance. Publication of
a monthly newsletter is planned in the near future. It will contain
technical subjects for training.  Audio-visual materials (slides) related
to the works performed by the labor-intensive construction brigades and
similar works carried out in other countries (Kenya and Lesotho) are
available and used in training SRDR personnel.
Training Needs and Programs
5.       Most of the SRDR personnel need basic and/or refresher train-
ing. The training will be provided either on a formal basis and/or on-
the-job basis, according to the level of the trainees and the training
needs. Apart from the technical subjects relevant to each category of
personnel, improvement of knowledge and skills is needed in the following



- 60 -                                           ANNEX 3-6
Page 3 of 4
areas: planning and organization of works, use of management tools and
inteprtaioo  data, and personinel management.
6.             The tra-inring programn addresses 383 SRDR's members including,
equipment operators, drivers anid staff memibers to be appoi-nted in the new
Feeder Roads maintenance section and is summirarized in t-he table below.
Benin- Training Program
Trainees                                       Training Program
course            traineet
*  ~~~~~~~~~~.~~uration                       d     
00   0 ~~~~>0 > ao.0I                       N
a,                                                                                   u  a, ~    a
No-Moer of Personnel6   'c                                                      *e    . e           mj        UJoO
2.  Management function                                                     x                        x     I c    1   4       9  1    9   316
3 .         sfin,t-ative procedures
Level I                             x  x          x                                 x        c1        1201    20    20
Level 2                                            x   x        x                                 3   31543 3162   162
4,  Personniel planning &                              x           x                                          CM  2   3    ii  1   22   33
4ov e  c o Hi nt
5.  Repooing                                                      x                                          CM   I 3   382    8   114
O6.   s Dfa]icnsh-~D with local                                    x   X                                     DeV 1    5   3 2 3              9
au thto ri tie&s213 19
7.  Budget and accounting                               5x I'2 Z   16 1 <32.   32
0.  Cosc accountIn                                         x            x        x                                 4 3 62  4 12 4 &  105 
9.Wrk   rograms                                         x                                               CMI 1   2   101         1U  .23
10.  Feasihi'-~.v studies                                      x                            .                 1ov~ 3    2     41        2'     3
11.  Road cc- truction and                          5               x                                          Hz  s   -    9-    ~45    -
~Lantenance                                                                                       [
12.  Road inapection                                                a   x                                      IaI  2   3   38  2    76  lie4
13.   Works nethods                                                 a   x                                      HE~ 5   - I383   190-  -
!4.  Wncks, quantitles
Level 1                                                x              a1            a         Y7   -   463   I38    -
Level 2                                                    x                     a      xi  DV  3   - '193 10   5 79   -
15.  Equipment management and                                                                         x      M0E1 3   4   10  1    30. 40
generalities on. equipment               I3
16.  Equipment_ maintenance                                              a  x                                  DVi  2   5  18310   36  915
17.  Equipt:-can  operation                                                                                    D vk 5  10 1106 20  .530t 106C
13.  Use of spare parzs lists                     I                                                             f   1   5   27. 3    27  13 5
19.  BookkeePing ano  site                                                        a1Aj 7  10   16  1   112  160 
stores orgarizanaut:                                                                                    I                       .
20).  safetv                                                             a  x                          x       1 7-      5 ~184' 10 I552.  920
TOTAL                           1                                                                                  V7
Traininig duration per            Baif(as)          1   7  8   6  26  24  0    15   3         5   318S  4
category of personnel           Refresh        116 10  6   5  24  27- 10   21   -    IC)  - 24  5 
(days/year) 



61 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 4 of 4
Training Program Implementation
7.       The training will be handled by the Training Expert assisted by
the other members of the technical assistance team and the Dutch
Volunteers. The Training Expert will be fully responsible for the
organization and implementation of the training program.
8.       The periodic refresher courses will be given by the Beninese
instructors of the DROA training center and/or by the immediate
hierarchic superiors of the members to be trained. In addition, formal
training sessions will be organized by the suppliers of new equipment
financed by the Project and addressed to the operators, drivers and
mechanics.
WAPT2
Jan. 84



- 62 -                                   ANNEX 3-7
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(CFAF million)               (US$ '0^0)           % Fbreign   % Total
ILocal   Pbreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange   Bae Costs
1  Training Program & Consultant Services
a. Technical Assistance (160 N/M)        56.0     503.8    559-8    133;9   1,205.4  1,339.3     90.0       13.7
b. Volunteer Exprts (60 "N)              16.0      16.0    32.0    38-3        38-3     76.6    50.0         D.8
c. Local 'ran    Supply & Allowances     42.6      10.7     53.3    102.0      25-5    127.5    20.0         1-3
d. Socio-economic Impact Study           32.0        -      32.0    76-5         -      76.5       -         0.8
e. Consultant Studies                    48.0     144.0    192.0    114.8    344.4    459.2      75-0        4-7
SubtotElL Training PrOgrSn &
Consultants Services            194.6     674.5    869.1    465.5   1,613.6  2,079.1     77.6       21.3
2. Road Constirction Euipnent
a.      Eaipment                         40.0     360.0    400.0     95.6     861.0    956.6     90.0        9.8
SubtotaL Road Construction EEuipmet  40.0    360.0    400.0       95.6    851.0    956.6      90.0        9.8
3. Road Conistruction and Periodic Yaintenance
a. Wages                               1,583.5       -   1,58'.5  3,781.0        -   3,781.0       _        38.6
b. Fuel                                  36.7    330.1    366.8      87.8    789.8    877.6       90.0       9.0
c. Spare Perts, Bluip Repairs
and Maint.                       44.7    403.1    447.8    107.1      9644   1,071.4     90.0       11.0
d. Local Purdhases                      167.9      18.7    186.6    401-8      44.6    446.4      10.0       4,5
Subtotal Road Construction &
Periodic Yaintenance           1,829.8    751.9  2,561.7  4,377.7   1,79,.7  6,176.4     29.0       63.1
4. Routine ]ood Maintaenrnce
a. Wages                                170.6        -      170.6    408.2       -     408.2       -         4.2
b. Fuels                                  3.8      34.6     38-4      9.1      82.7     91.8     90.0        0.19
c. Spare Parts & Repairs                  2.3      21.1     23.4      5.6      50.5     56.1     90.0        O.6
d. IDcal Pulanses                         5.3        -       5.3     12.8        -      12.8       -         0.1
Sabtotal Routine Road  intenance     182.0      55.7    237.7    435.7    133.2    568.9      23.4        5.8
Total Baseline Costs               2,246.4   1,842.1  4,088.5  5,374.5   4,406.5  9,781.0     45.0      100.0
Physical Contingecies           314.5     257.9    572.4    752.4    616.8  1,369.2      45.0       14.0
Price Contingencies             471.7     386.8    858.5  1,128.7     925.3  2,054.0     45.0       21.0
Total Project Costs                3,032.6   2,486.8  5,519.4  7,255.6   5,948.6 13,204.2     45.0      135.0
WAPT2
r. 84



- 63 -
ASNEX 3-8
TRIRD PELER ROADS IlOJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF THE FIRST YEAR
Months
Briade     No.            Road            L          1     2      3    4    5    6      7     8    9            11  12
Mechanizd *   Bodjecali-Garou               17                   D
17    BaTume-Zarkcuiaden      12
15   Houegbo-Wokp               10
16    Zasgnaro-Sacbovi         17
14   Sagon-Aize                 7
12    Ouokon,41onzotgoudo      10
38    Gbonago-Abggo             10
labor
Intensive 1 29   Agoua-Bobe                 16
23    Bnte-Aklampka            29
Labor
Intensive 2  *   Beroubouay-Yara            20_                                         D
22   Logozohe-Lahotan          12
21   Lahotan-Ouedeme             5
Labor
Intensive 3  *    lonougo-Kantero           7                    D
1   Lonkly-Voli-latadji       15
2    Lanhoue Tome-
Piste Aplahoue-Atcme      6
3    Djakotaney-KPoba           9
Labor
Intensive 4       B agou-Sori              16                        -
45    Dunkassa-Bouka           15
47    Bouanri-Biro              7
Total          240 kan
D = Displacement of the Brigade.
*= Inventory number not assigned.
WAPT2
Jan. 1984



- 64 -                      ANNEX 3-9
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Item                          1984  |  1985  j  1986       1987      1988
Credit Effectiveness
I.  Technical Assistance & Training
- Award of Contract
- Consultant Services
II. Equipment Procurement
- Preparation of Tender Docs.
- Invitation of Bids
- Bid Evaluation
- Award of Contract
- Equipment Delivery                                                 l
III.  Feeder Road Constructiona/
IV.  Low Standard Track Construction                                     - .
V.  Routine Maintenance                   |                                -
VI.  Periodic Maintenance                  I               -
VIIL  Impact Study
a/ See detailed First Year Implementation Schedule.
WAPT2
Feb. 1984



- 685 -
418F3-1C0
BENIN
THIRD FECDER ROADS PROJECT
SCHEDUJLE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ 'QOO)
1 "'1             --
(0                                                    /                          7~~~~
a  u~~~~~~~a
--                                                              I z/e'w    
70 4. .  r                       W; g                     v      Actual cumulative dis,         manr
aS         a9                                                       4 O-=-- 0>                    pe.centages under Secoud
60_  }                         a  '                  /           Feeder RcaDs Prc aet
-0
0;                                                                             /                 Esti.ated           ca       sbur,se-
0    0.                                                                                                                --
$   z             /     SO      >                    ,? f             t           .       ba~~~~50 71  en" profl-Je for  Ii-e prnpo e~d
a',                                                           /             / |   44   ' i'       project (IDA Cre di )
a,,        a                        -E; /                              ,We                        .^scimated cu-mulative  isb.urse-
V.                                                           /
-:                               3  01 {                 ,^-----    m.eet pro0vl  fo  th                                    crpsed
S        J         4 ,/                 (:       .      '  .P    r                   D              jc   e ^t    (T  .SPe _alv............-. e
W   W    ;@   ', >          ,, >>  ,                                     'leY ct~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  rn, em   n-oReisr
ci                 pN*g A X  ~e                                                                   roads projects
1981        19S,2      1985        19C4       i985         1;,36      i987        i'8        i9893       i990       iY,
IDA FY an /eD  Cei                                % Of                    3/TD                     3f
2Y0 9-5
Ja  30, 1                  cs -                       1                   42I -
FYe1 ges
Septber 30,                      1 f9u/ 420  4                                             - 8  -- ,, 1. 19
4 c3mber 31, l2e5          664 2     4   141 19                  423                   , 81 22
1M98   31, 19e2            721     1q84a             31                   ',362 91          18)   643
June 3C, NC9f36            /A          2,6C4-       44                    720           56. O  5t
Jua3,I                      83                        1-
September 30, 110          420         3,2)          56                   74 ,49'                   68
Crcwber 31, 1936 4560                  ',2          68 619                            '             739
z1-'a2031,17               33         1,6 4                              540                       &7
June 30, 1S7              5760         5,220        6 4                   Pal         55&
:S1 afy
Septmber 30,                           5 9,2         c,                   36          452           97
~~ptaster3D,lS6~i      I6552                    952'9
DTcwbear 31, I953          2'43        5,623         97                                CC,W       10)2
March 31,, 13              132         6,ro3        102
W3APT2
Apr- 84



- 66 -
Annex 4-1
Page 1 of 3
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS
KEY ASSUMPTIONS IN THE ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.       Project roads will have a life of ten years, assuming periodic
regraveling in year seven.
2.       Without the project:
Agricultural production, being unconstrained by land supply,
will increase as a function of population increase, which is assumed to
occur at the provincial average rate of growth of rural population, as
follows:
Borgou                    2.0%
Mono                      1.2%
Ouem'                     1.2%
Zou                       1.2%
3.       With the project:
(a)   extension services and additional inputs were expected to
be applied at the rates and costs specified in the
following table;
(b)   land under cultivation is expected to increase in propor-
tion to population, which is assumed to increase at the
national average growth rate of 2.59% natural increase in
the road influence area;
(c)   after allowing for autoconsumption on farm and other
losses, all marketable surpluses are assumed to be
marketed.



- 67 -                                   ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 3
ESTIMATES OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY GAINS (kg/ha) AND ASSOCIATED COSTS
Regio         n       oMono                          Mono       Oueme       Ouem6       Zou        Zou       Borgcu    Borgou
Cre6ionp                       South      North      South      North      South      North      South      North
Maize
Actual Yield (kg)                           712        712        621         621        759        759        696        689
Improved Yield (kg)                       1,50C      1,500      1,390      1,390      1,500       1,500      1,370      1,370
Years to achieve improved yield              10         10          10         10         10         10         10         10
Annual Costs
Inputs (CFAF)                       13,417    13,415    18,324    35,716    14,803    17,104    11,875             7,663
Subsidy (CFAF)                       2,406       2,406      2,406      2,406      2,406      2,406      2,406      2,406
Intensification (CFAF)               3,000       3,000      3,00C      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000
Rice
Actual Yield (kg)                         1,200      1,154      2,064      2,065       1,881      1,884      1,717      1,743
Improved Yield (kg)                       2,500      2,500      2,800      2,800      2,500      2,500       2,600      2,60O
Years to achieve improved yield              10          0          10         10         10         10         t          tO
Annual Costs
Inputs (CFAF)                        5,000       5,000      3,750      3,750      5,000      5,000      5,000      5,000
Subsidy (CFAF)                       3,000       3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,O          3,000    390C
Intensification (CFAF)               5,026       5,008      3,865      4,000      5,078      5,159      5,128      6,095
Sorghum
Actual Yield (kg)                                                                        593        593        759        757
Improved Yield (kg)                                                                   1,000      1,000       1,000      t,00OO
Years to achieve improved yield                                                           10         10         1C         10
Annual Costs
Inputs (CFAF)                                                                     3,773      4,335    10,181    14,768
Subsidy (CFAF)
Intensification (CFAF)
Millet
Actual Yield (kg)                                                                                              514        514
Improved Yield (kg)                                                                                            620        620
Years to achieve improved yield                                                                                 10         10
Annual Costs
Inputs (CFAF)                                                                                           2,074      2,165
Subsidy (CFAF)
Intensification (CFAF)
Manioc
Actual Yield (kg)                         6,936      6,936      5,876      5,876      7,035       7,050      6,069      6,073
Improved Yield (kg)                       7,000      7,000      7,000      7,000      8,000      8,000      7,800       7,800
Years to achieve improved yield                5          5          5          5          5          5          5
Annual Costs
Inputs (CFAF)                        2,631       1,773      3,105      6,112      4,065      7,977      2,047        851
Subsidv (CFAF)
Intensification (CFAF)
Yams
Actual Yield (kg)                                    8,000      6,894      6,904    12,t69    12,616         9,765      9,655
Improved Yield (kg)                                 10,000      8,000      8,000    13,000    13,000           -          -
Years to achieve improved yield                           5          5          5          5          5        -          -
Annual Costs
Inputs (CFAF)                                                  74      1,352        389      4,947    12,740       3,467
Subsidy (CFAF)
Intensification (CFAF)
Potatoes
Actual Yield (kg)                         1,167      1,165      5,000      5,000      4,000       4,000
Improved Yield (kg)                       5,000      5,000      6,000      6,000      7,000      7,000
Years to achieve improved yield               5           5          5          5          5          5
Annual Costs
Inputs (CFAF)                             9         73        769        130        145         38
Subsidy (CFAF)
Intensification (CFAF)
Taro
Actual Yield (kg)                                               3,000      3,000
Improved Yield (kg)                                             6,000      6,000
Years to achieve improved yield                                      5          5
Annual Costs
Inputs (CFAF)                                                  13         13
Subsidy (CFAF)
Intensification (CFAF)



- 68 -                                   ANNEX 4-1
Page 3 of 3
_  Regiior.                     Mono       Mono       Ouece      Oueme       Zou        Zou       Borgou    Borgou
South      North      South      North      South      North      South      North
Beans
Actual Yield (kg)                           433        436        447        447        389        389        323        325
Improved Yield (kg)                        650         650        650        650        650        650        650        650
Years to achieve improved yield               5          5          5          5          5          5          5          5
Annual Costs
Inputs (CFAF)                        7,802      8,829      9,441      8,712     11,993    13,504    10,441       11,178
Subsidy (CFAF)
ntencsification (CFAF)
Peaniuts
Actual Yield (kg)                           596        597        465        465        708        724        871        888
Improved Yield (kg)                        660        660        800        800       1 ,370     1,370      1 ,250     1 ,250
Years to achieve improved yield               5          5          5          5          5          5          5          5
Annual Conts
Inputs (CFAF)                        3,209      5,433      6,033      3,499     11,554     10,834      3,886      5,451
Subsidy (CFAF)                       1,719      1,719      1,719      1,719      1,719      1,719      1,719      1,719
Intensification (CFAF)               3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000
Pepper
Actual Yield (kg)                           300        305        305        304        304        305        304        296
Improved Yield (kg)                         500        500        500        500        500        500        510        495
Years to achieve improved yield              10         10         10         10         10         10         10         10
Arnual Costs
Inputs 'CFAF)                           33        505         89         79        138        800         46          51
Subsidy (CFkF)
Intensification (CFAF)
Gombo
Actual Yield (kg)                        2,000       2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000
Improved Yield (kg)                      2,500      2,500       2,500      2,500      2,500      2,500      2,500      2,500
fears to achieve improved yield              10         10         10         10         10         10         10         10
Arnual Costs
Inputs (CFAF)                            3        128           1        15        157        286         66         80
Subsidy (CFAF)
Intensification (CFAF)
Tomatoes
Actual Yield (kg)                        3,566       3,565      3,567      3,561      3,563      3,565
nrpx,ved Yield (kg)                     5,000      5,000      5,000      5,000      5,000       5,000
Years to achieve improved yield              10         10         10         10         10         10
Annuial Costs
Inputs (CFAF)                          112      1,948         80         45        111        326
Subsidy (CFAF)
Intensification (CFAF)
Sesame
Actual Yield (kg)                                                            350        350        352
.mproved Yield (kg)                                                          800        800        800
Years to achieve improved yield                                               10         10         10
Annual Costs
Inputs (CFAF)                                                           345         56         65
Subsidy (CFAF)
Intensification (CFAF)
Cotton
Actual Yield (kg)                           583        607        667        778        774        774        604        603
Improved Yield (kg)                       1,200      1,200      1,000      1,089      1,200      1,200      1,200      1,200
Yearo to achieve improved yield              10         10         10         10         10         10         10         10
Annual Costs
Inputs (CFAF)                        5,809      6,141      5,800      5,834      6,077      8,733      8,080    12,195
Subsidy (CFAF)                       3,625      3,625      3,625      3,625      3,625      3,625      3,625      3,625
Intensification (CFAF)               3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000
Tabacco
Actual Yield (kg)                                      429                              400        417
Improved Yield (kg)                                    586                              600        600
Years to achieve improved yield                         10                               10         10
Annual Costs
Inputs (CFAF)                                   4,535                            4,515      4,671
Subsidy (CFAF)
Intensification (CFAF)
Source; SRDR, Troisi4me Rapport Economique, Dec. 1982 (ref. 3).
WAFT2
Jan. 84



- 69 -
ANNEX 4-2
9EN INI
IHTRD FEEDERP ROADS PROJECT
ESTIYAEES OF MARKETABLE AGRICULTURAL SUR9 US3S
(1980-81 harvest in tons'
Borgcu                   Monc                    C,eme                    Zou             Total
North       South       Nort'i      South       North       Sout-       Nortt       South
Tubereas a!2310                              2,437597    11,838                    35,304    32,990l       38.806    27,962       22,0
bereals/                        514,902    54,429         11,364     9,506        19.280    22,591        s5,655    27.320      242,067
Leguminous crops                    5,299      2,875          198      5,726          950      7,'72       17,964    26,034        66,218
Vegetables                            364        24-4       1,109    34_,314        6,132      1,933       10,009      3,298       59,402
Subtotal                      45,66,    60,960        44,288    637,3,84      61.666   F641-86       152,434    84,614       597,697
Or-farm losses                     2,2%0      4,050         1,135     4,250         3,085      3,235        8,025     ,,830       29,860
Subtotal                      43,,415    76,910       43,153    59,134        58,581     61,451      144,409    60,784       567,837
Auto-consusiption                  44,360    50,210        34,460    50,330        25,270    50.605        54,470    53,840       3653,945
(217 kg/year/person)
Balance (potenciaIly
marketeAo'e)             (-945)    26,700         8,693      8,-'04      33,31'     10,846       89,939    26,944       203,892
Market losses                       -     1,869           608       589        2,33C         759       6,29G      1 ,886      1 4,337
Total narketable         (-945)    24,831         8,085      7,815       30,981    10,087        83,643    25,058       189,555
Total marketable as
% cf total production                 31           12                      50         16           55         30           34
a/ Cereal equivalent = .73 x Tuber vDlume.
Source:  SRDR, TroisiZme rappert 6conomique (Annex 3, Table 5) December 1?32 (Ref. 42).
WAPT2
Dec. 83



- 70 -
ANNEX 4-3
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
ESTIMATES OF AREA CULTIVATED (1980-81)
(HA)
Borgou      Borgou      Mono       Oueme       Zou        Zou
(south)    (north)      (north)   (north)   (south)    (north)
Maiz                                  14,604       5,797     44,327    55,653    32,919    44,809
Rice                                     230       1,706          31       360        208        455
Sorghum                              15,786      22,301           --        --      4,370      7,096
Millet                                 1,700       1,700          --        --         --         --
Manioc                                 3,445       1,297      4,747      8,416    10,326    22,181
Yams                                  14,577       3,587           5     1,039        585      7,922
Sweet Potatoes                            --          --         242       225        447        131
Taro                                      --          --          --        29         --         --
Potato                                    --          17          --        --         --         --
Green Beans                            5,172       5,911      3,673      1,721    12,688    18,924
Peanuts                                1,582      3,804       6,914        583    23,718    23,940
Chillies                                 106         110      2,504        222        595      4,089
Okra                                     159         165        531         50        685      1,099
Tomato                                    --          --      9,674         133       490      1,673
Onions                                    __          _         297         --         --         --
Other Vegetables                          --          _           _         _          _
Coffee                                    --          --          --         --        --         --
Cotton                                4,123       8,235       1,030         53        779      9,121
Tobacco                                   --          --          67        --         25        302
Palm Oil                                                          --        --         --         --
Sesamn                                    -           --         --        928        248        330
Total Area Cultivated              61,284      54,630      74,042    69,412    88,083   142,072
Rural Population                  231,359    204,418    233,790   116,448   248,107   250,988
HA/Rural Habitants                   0.26        0.26        0.31       0.60       0.36       0.57
Source: Ministry of Rural Development and the
Third Economic Report, SRDR, December 1982 (Ref. 2).
WAPT2
Dec. 83



- 71 -
Annex 4-4
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
SUMMARY OF COSTS AND BENEFITS
(First Year Program)
Length   Costs (CFAF million)        Net Present Value (CFAF million) a/    ERR    Beneficiaries after
No.           Name            (km)             Const.                 (Net incremental value added)          (%)       Road improvement
*  Bododjecali - Garou       17               34.0                            23.90                       24.0             1,155
17  Baname - Zankoumadon    12                 33.6                           114.45                       28.0             4,233
15  Houegbo - Wokpa           10               28.0                            57.04                       46.0             7,668
16  Zangnanado - Sagbovi    17                 34.0                            98.24                       46.0             7,933
14  Sagbon - Aize              7               19.6                             4.39                       18.0             1,611
13  Holly - Zaloko            10               28.0                            27.10                       35.0               544
38  Gbonago - Abagado         10               28.0                            21.84                       31.0             6,641
29  kgoua - Bobe              16               44.8                            53.98                       41.0             1,148
28  Bante - Aklamkpa          29               81.2                            60.25                       30.1             7,881
*  Beroubouay - Yara         20               56.0                            47.3                        18.0
22  Logozohe - Lahotan        12               33.6                            64.13                       33.1             8,833
21  Lahotan - Ouedeme          5               14.0                              6.76                      24.0             2,134
*  Fonougo - Kantero          7               19.6                             4.85                       18.0             1,610
1  Lonkly - Latadji          15              42.0                             13.62                      20.0              1,155
2  Piste Aplahoue - Atome   6                 16.8                             2.91                       18.0
3  Djakotomey - Kposa         9              25.2                             22.11                       40.0             4,009
:  Bagou - Sori              16              44.8                             49.10                      37.0              3,680
45  Dunkassa - Bouka          15               42.0                            20.98                       24.0             3,592
47  Bouanri - Biro             7               19.6                              3.31                      16.0             1,029
240             644.8                            696.26       Overall ERR-  29.0              64,856
Inventory number not yet assigned.
a/ Discounted at 12%.
WAPT2
Dec. 83



72 -
AhNNEX 4-5
T20il FEE._ R044  PROJEC:
sMsrIrq-r CF 'IE 3RR TO ILLINGES ID' L1102281280 ASP10IN4S
ERR av unazg
A                        __                            D
2C%5           2<$          Spulation       InSficlent rnrsntesnece
lesngth   Base EETR  less -,clx.e   increase in   growth. reduced        redonos road life          A  n  B      3 "ad .D
Io.   _     NSiame          (Ikn)       (If)      iraiteted    corst. cos2ts   to 2  per    ro si veas                         nined         a'-ned
*  Bododieuii - Garou       17         24           16             19               24                                          11
17  Bna=e - ZankoUtadon    12           28           1             23                28                 24                       15                  25
15 {Houegbo - Wokpai        'I          46           33                              46                 4                         53
i6  7-engninado - Ss6-x-  17            46          73             j7                45                 41                        - 
'4  Sagbon, - Aize            7         18           C0             4                 n                                                              14
'3  Follyy- Zaloko           10         35           25            25 35                                 0                       19                  25
3   Wrneco - Abagado         1C        35            22            25                31                 27                        4                  20
29 Agoua - Bo'be             16    4'                    3C 37 3c                                      25z                                           52
28  Bante -.Alank            29         30           21            24                30                 25                       i6                  24
*  eroubouay- YaP           20         18           1C             I                18                 13                        8                  13
22  lIgoaoze - lehotani      12         33           23            26                32                 51                       '8                  25
21  -ahotaa - Ouedume         5         24           '6           .19                24                 18                       1'                  19
*   ononno - SEntero      7         18           I             14                18                 11                                           1
I  Lonkly - Latad.4i        15         20            3            16                20                 16                        c                  16
2  Piste i4plahoue - Atcone   6        18           10            13                17                                           6                  11
3  7jakotney- K-posa        9          40          30              3                40                 55                       24                  32
ITagou - Scorn           16         77          27            35                 36                 53                       21                  29
45  }DLmissaa- Fouk          15         24           '6            19                24                 21                       11                  18
47  -ouarsi - Biro            7         16            c,           12                16                 1                                            11
Overal ER:                      29           19            22                28                                         '4                  21
Inoventory  nurmoer not assigned.
WAT22
Feb. 11984



M A L  '    J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F 
VOTI '        G  NEI 
k   I   ~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                                  NNIG               
va L,a 
C,  &dLAA NN                           VOLTA                                          ~5/t
-~  OR500C ~        ~                   I   ~ AAANIGERIA
0 ~ ~       ~         ~        ~       ~         0
/  MOOR/A  tOR.,ORs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  /ob'
IA~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~K 
F'                                                     Th      N""''                            N                                                  F.
'AK",A ETA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f'  I   '               A"'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2             + T2N
Tz-- I       ,o" 
'OF,                                                                             C~--'
Bo'OR'S.,                            TA~~~~~~~~~~~~~/I~~~~.Ch4TF-.,R.RA   \1-
N-         , AS  c,"""" R..
~~0~~~~~~~~~-~~~>      A'                               -A  f  ld
4-1
<'4                                                                                        /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
A'  K     - ~~~~~~~~~                                    tA/ABA                -I~~~~~~~~~



