Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3802-BEN
REPORT AND RECDMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND SPECIAL FUND CREDIT
IN AMOUNTS EQUIVALENT TO US$6.0 MILLION EACH
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
May 2, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance ofl
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



( ii.)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0 = CFAF 418
CFAF 1/ 1 million = US$2,392
1/ The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the
ratio of FF1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently
floating.
SYSTEMS OF WEIGHTS AND I4EASURES: METRIC
Metric                              British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                   =     3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)           =     10.76 square feet (sq. ft.)
1 cubic aeter (m3)            =     35.30 cubic feet (cu. ft.)
1 kilometer (km)              =     0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)    =       0.39 square mile (sq. mi)
1 hectare (ha)                =     2.47 acres
1 metric ton (m ton)          =     2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CARDER     -  Regional Development Agency (Centre d'Action R6gionale pour
le D6veloppement Economique Rural)
CNAERDR    -  Rural Road Development and Maintenance Coordinating
Committee (Comite National d'Amenagement et d'Entretien des
Routes de Desserte Rurales)
CNERTP     -  National Soils Laboratory (Centre National d'Essais et de
Recherches des Travaux Publics)
DEP        -  Directorate of Studies and Planning (Direction des Etudes
et de la Programmation)
DPTP       -  Provincial Directorate of Public Works (Direction Provin-
ciale des Travaux Publics)
DROA       -  Directorate of Roads and Bridges (Direction des Routes et
Ouvrages d'Art)
EDF         -  European Development Fund
FRMS        -  Feeder Roads Maintenance Section
MTC         -  Ministry of Transport and Communications (Ministere des
Transports et des Communications)
MTPCH       -  Ministry of Public Works, Construction and Housing (Minis-
tere des Travaux Publics, de la Construction et de
l'Habitat)
OCBN        -  Benin-Niger Railway (Organisation Commune Benin-Niger)
PPF         -  Project Preparation Facility
SEMTP       -  Equipment Maintenance Division (Service d'Entretien du
Materiel des Travaux Publics)
SER         -  Road Maintenance Division (Service d'Entretien des Routes)
SERC       -  Division of Studies, Planning and Control (Service des
Etudes, de la R6glementation et du Controle)
SRDR       -  Feeder Roads Division (Service des Routes de Desserte
Rurales)
UNCDF       -  United Nations Capital Development Fund
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



(iii)                 FOR OFFICIAL UfSE ONLY
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
CREDIT' AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         The People's Republic of Benin.
Beneficiary:      Feeder Roads Division (SRDR) of the Ministry of Public
Works, Construction and Housing (MTPCH).
IDA Credit:       SDR 5.7  million (US$6.0 million equivalent).
Special Fund
Credit:       SDR 5.7  million (US$6.0 million equivalent).
Terms:            Standard IDA terms.
Project
Description:      The major objectives of the project are to: (a) support
rural development through the construction/improvement
and maintenance of feeder roads; (b) improve the local
planning, coordination and work execution capacity; and.
(c) test the effectiveness of accompanying feeder roads
constructioni with upgrading some contiguous footpaths to
trafficable low standard tracks. To achieve these objec-
tives, the project would consist of: (a) construction-
/improvement of: (i) 840 km of feeder roads; and (ii) on
a pilot basis, low standard tracks connecting selected
remote villages to these feeder roads; (b) maintenance
of about 2,000 km of feeder roads; (c) procurement of
equipment and tools to complete equipping four labor
intensive brigades and one bridge brigade and to replace
some of the aging existing equipment; (d) technical
assistance: (i) to SRDR for implementation of the proj-
ect and of the training program; (ii) for carrying out a
socio-economic impact study to monitor the growth of
traffic and analyze motives for trips generated, assess
the medium-term (10 year) needs for feeder roads, and
monitor the pilot scheme for low cost tracks; (iii) to
Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DROA) for the MTPCH
training school in Cotonou and for the Equipment Mainte-
nance Division (SEMTP); and (e) preparation of a future
project.
Project Benefits
and Risks:        Project benefits would be derived from the incremental
value added to agricultural production, which would
accrue to farmers whose incomes are currently in general
30-70% of the national average. Additional but non-
quantified benefits would be derived from transport of
non-agricultural goods, improved road safety, comfort
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(iv)
and reduced journey time. The project would help the
Government realize a part of -its rural development ob-
jectives. The main risks are slow and uncoordinated
implementation and insufficient maintenance of the roads
resulting in reductions in the anticipated volumes of
agricultural production marketed. These risks would be
minimized by: (i) strengthening SRDR's management and
training office and field staff; (ii) basing SRDR's an-
nual work programs on the priorities of local development
agencies (CARDERs) and requiring that such work programs
be approved by the national Rural Road Development and
Maintenance Coordinating Committee (CNAERDR) and sub-
mitted for IDA approval prior to starting construction;
Kiii) creating in SRDR a feeder road maintenance unit and
implementing an Action Plan tc, ensure timely maintenance
of feeder roads; and (iv) as a condition of approval of
the second and third year work programs, requiring SRDR's
budget to show line items for the counterpart funds and
feeder road maintenance needs.
Summary Project Cost Estimate
US$ (thousan-ds
Estimated Costs: a/
Local   Foreign   Total
1. Technical Assistance, Training and
Consultants Services for future
project preparation                           465        1,614    2,079
2.  Equipment                                         96         861       957
3. Road Construction and Periodic Maintenance
(a)  Feeder roads                             3,788        1,540    5,328
(b)  Low standard tracks                        345          158       503
(c)  Periodic maint.                            245          100      345
4.  Maintenance                                   _ 436           133      569
Total Base Cost                          5,375        4,406    9,781
Physical contingencies                          752          617    1,369
Price contingencies                           1,129          925    2,054
Total Project Cost                            7,256        5,948   13,204
Rounded                                7,255        5,945   13,200
a/ Net of taxes and duties.



(v)
Financing Plan:
US$ (thousands)
Local     Foreign       Total
IDA                           3,120        2,880      6,000
IDA Special Fund              2,935       3,065       6,000
Government                    1,200          --       1,200
Total                    7,255        5,945      13,200
Estimated Disbursements (US$ Thousands):
IDA Fiscal Years                   1985        1986      1987       1988
1. IDA Credit
Annual                              60      2,580     2,580        780
Cumulative                          60      2,640     5,220      6,000
2. Special Fund Credit
Annual                             420      2,940     2,220        420
Cumulative                         420     3,360      5,580      6,000
Economic Rate of Return:  The estimated overall ERR for the first year
tranche of the project is 29%. To be eligible for financing, individual
roads in the second and third year tranches of the project must yield a
minimum ERR of 12%.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4901-BEN
Map: IBRD 17313 R
I
WAPT2
Apr. 1984



I
I



- I -
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF
THE PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND SPECIAL FUND CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN FOR A THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit and Special Fund Credit to the People's Republic of
Benin for an amount in various currencies equivalent to Special Drawing
Rights 5.7 million (US$6.0 miLlion equivalent) and Special Drawing
Rights 5.7 (US$6.0 million equivalent) respectively on standard IDA
terms to help finance a Third Feeder Roads Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The latest economic report on Benin (Report No. 4686-BEN) was
distributed to the Executive Directors April 1984. The paragraphs below
are based upon this report and other information that has since become
available. Annex 1 provides basic country data.
Political Background
3.       After independence in 1960, a period of instability character-
ized by frequent changes in Government prevailed in Benin until the revo-
lution in 1972, which brought to power the military Government of
Lieutenant-Colonel Kerekou. The country has since then enjoyed a compa-
ratively long period of political stability under a one-party system.
Following the adoption of a new constitution, President Kerekou was con-
firmed in 1980 and he now heads a Government composed mainly of civil-
ians.
Structure of the Economy
4.       Benin is a small, poor nation with a population of 3.5 mil'Lion
and an estimated 1982 per capita GDP of US$280. Agriculture, the most
important sector of the economy, employs three-fourths of the active
population and accounts for 40 percent of GDP and 36 percent of foreign
exchange earnings. There is a small industrial sector consisting of a
few import substitution and agricultural processing plants. It contri-
buted an estimated 11 percent to GDP in 1982. The tertiary sector is
dominated by trade and transit activities that link economic activity in
Benin to conditions existing in neighboring economies.



5.        The agricultural sector is predominantly foodcrop oriented,
producing maize, sorghum, yams, cassava, beans and small quantities of
rice. Benin at present enjoys an overall food surplus; it is estimated
that a significant portion of domestic foodcrop output (perhaps as much
as 20 percent) is exported unofficially to Nigeria and Niger. This off-
sets Benin's foodgrain imports which have been rising in recent years.
The main export crops are palm oil, cotton and peanuts. Cotton, which is
well-suited environmentally to conditions in northern Benin, is rising in
importance while oil palm in the south is in relative decline because of
insufficient rainfall.
6.       The production of petroleum, cement and sugar which have signif-
icant export potential began recently.  For cement and sugar, however,
major marketing hurdles will need to be cleared to permit export sales to
take place, particularly to Nigeria.
Recent Economic Developments
7.       Real GDP growth during 1978-1982 averaged about 5 percent per
annum, up substantially from the C.7 percent annual average during the
1972-76 period. Growth was strong in 1977, 1981 and 1982 when there were
sharp increases in construction, manufacturing, trade and public adminis-
tration.  This growth was linked to the heavy public investment program
and to strong growth in commercial activi-ties due to the oil boom in
Nigeria and the uranium boom in Niger. Agriculture, on the other hand,
consistently grew at less than one percen-t per annum through the mid-
seventies, and fluctuated over the next five years through 1981. Agri-
cultural performance improved substantially in 1982 and 1983 with a sharp
rise in cotton output attributable to higher producer prices and the
availability of modern inputs.
8.        During the mid-seventies, t;he Government expanded its presence
in the modern sector of the economy by nationalizing the major industrial
enterprises as well as extending its involvement in the agricultural
sector. The First Development Plan (1977-1980) went further by invest-
ments in three large projects; Seme Petroleum, Save Sugar and Onigbolo
Cement. This policy of greater Government involvement has determined the
course of the recent evolution of the public finances, external indebt-
edness and external balance.
9.       Until the late seventies, the Government maintained a conser-
vative public finance posture. A tight control over expenditure resulted
in a current budget surpluses, which averaged 31 percent of revenues
between 1977 and 1979. Modest foreign borrowing financed the limited
public investment program. More recently, the current surplus in the
public finances has been declining, partially because of rising current
expenditures, about three-fourths of which are wages and salaries.  The
other factor contributing to this decline is the weakened revenue base.
Over half of public revenues are derived from import duties, of which a
significant proportion is levied on imports (officially or unofficially)
re-exported to Nigeria and Niger. The downturn in economic activities in



- 3 -
these neighboring countries has reduced demand and limited the inflow of
dutiable goods that transit through Benin.
10.      Public enterprise difficulties also pose a liability for Gov-
ernment finances. Two-thirds of the 60 public enterprises in Benin are
in financial difficulties. Losses have been financed by the state-owned
banks, rather than through transfers from the budget. As many of these
advances cannot now be repaid, the Government, either as shareholder or
as banker, will have to cover these deficits.  Public enterprise diffi-
culties have stemmed from poor initial project design, undercapitali-
zation, inexperienced business management, inadequate Government pricing
and personnel policies, and other inefficiencies.  In 1982, the Govern-
ment announced a series of measures to strengthen the public enterprise's,
including more realistic pr:icing policies, better incentives for managers
and workers, tougher controls, and the liquidation of non-viable units.
A program is now being prepared -to support these decisions.
11.      In the external sector the growth of exports has been modest
while imports have grown rapidly, mainly because of capital imports asso-
ciated with the major public investments. In 1981, the resulting current
account deficit reached 34 percent of GDP as the investment ratio reachled
35 percent of GDP. Financing came mainly from external loans, princi-
pally supplier credits and long-term official lending.
Policy Changes and Future Prospects
12.      Confronted by many problems, the Government has begun to elimi-
nate economic distortions and to lay the foundation for growth. Agricul-
tural producer prices have been raised and input subsidies are being
eliminated in a planned faEshion. Major reforms have been decided in the
pricing, personnel and management policies affecting the public enter-
prises, and some marginal enterprises have been closed. The Government
has sought to strengthen its ability to manage its public finances in-
cluding external debt and *to improve planning functions. Meanwhile,
Government's direct involvement in productive activities will be reduced
and private capital will be accorded a greater role in the developmenl
process. These policy changes, which are reflected in the new medium-
term Development Plan (1983-1987) should lay the basis for more vigorous
growth in the longer term.
13.      Benin's growth performance over the medium term will be limited
by several constraints which make it unlikely that GDP will grow by more
than an average of 3 to 4 percent per year during the 1982-90 period,
even taking account of Seme oil output. Key constraints include the
slowdown in demand in neighboring countries and the poor initial perform-
ance of the cement and sugar projects.
14.      The public finance situation is likely to remain difficult in
the years ahead due to the recurrent cost implications of recent major
investments, the need to re-finance a number of public enterprises, and
the external debt problem.. On the revenue side, the buoyancy in import
duties over the last few years associated with goods re-exported to



- 4 -
neighboring countries is not likely to continue in the mid-1980s.  The
exploitation of Seme oil is not expected to maake even a modest contri-
bution to fiscal resources until 1986. Imporl duties are projected to
continue providing slightly over half of totELl Central Government reve-
nues.
15.       Benin's balance of payments is difficult to project because of
the large size of unrecorded exports. It is estimated, however, that the
current account deficit in relation to GDP will decrease during the rest
of the 1980se This results from expected new exports of petroleum,
cement and sugar by 1985 and from a decline in the real value of capital
imports from the high levels of 1981-82, following completion of the
cement and sugar projects. The foreign borrowings that financed the
three recent industrial projects (para. 8) rapidly raised the stock of
debt outstanding and debt service obligations. As a result of a more
modest level of public investment, fewer loans will be required in the
near-term. Therefore debt service ratios should begin to stabilize,
although at a higher level than in the past. After having risen from 7
percent of exports in 1981 to 24 percent in 1982, the debt service ratio
is projected to remain at about the 25 percent level through 1990. The
first two Seme loan maturities have been rescheduled. To address the
financial disequilibrium in general, the Beninese authorities have begun
a dialogue with the IMF with the hope that this will result in an IMF-
supported stabilization program.
16.      Benin remains a very poor country with large needs for directly
productive investment and supporting infrastruicture. The increased debt
burden constrains future access to commercial loans. The Government has
recognized the need to mobilize increased concessionary financing from
bilateral and multilateral sources, as reflec-ted in the Donors' Round-
table Conference convened in March 1983. In view of Benin's poverty and
the inability of public savings to finance more than 5-10 percent of the
future public investment program, the country will continue to need
foreign financing on concessionary terms. Foreign donors should provide
a large share of total project costs, including, where possible, some
financing of local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN
17.       To date there have been eighteen IDA credits to Benin including
two supplementary credits, totalling US$170.47 million. Five of the
credits were for agriculture, six for road construction and maintenance,
two for education, two for energy, and one each for port expansion, urban
water supply and development of small-sceLle enterprises. Annex 2 con-
tains a summary statement of Bank Group operations in Benin as of
September 30, 1983.
18.       In the past, the Bank Group's dialogue with Benin was conducted
on a case-by-case basis. More recently, however, the policy and lending
dialogue has intensified and Government has displayed considerable



interest in and responsiveness to Bank lending and policy assistance. In
roads, the Government is increasing emphasis on maintenance and looking
into ways to increase efficiency of transport operations.
19.      A large proportion of the Bank's assistance to Benin's develop-
ment so far has been in the agricultural sector. IDA's earlier oper-
ations in this sector were met with mixed success and in fact during the
execution of an IDA-FAC Zou-Borgou credit for cotton development made in
1972, cotton production actually fell. In 1977, a technical assistance
credit was made to help the Government better prepare rural development
projects. The assistance provided with this credit was instrumental in
preparing the Borgou, Zou and Atacora provinces' rural development proj-
ects. Under the Borgou project, for which a US$17 million IDA credit was
approved in April 1981, cotton production in the Borgou province doubled
in the 1982-83 season. The Zou Project (FY83 IDA US$20 million) is ncte-
worthy for its inclusion of financing of fertilizer imports on a de-
clining scale as a response to a Government decision to phase out fertil-
izer and pesticide subsidies. The proposed Third Feeder Roads Projeci;
would support agriculture through improving feeder roads transport.
20.      The Bank Group's involvement in the transport sector in Benin
began in 1969, when the Bank acted as Executing Agency for a UNDP "Land
Transport Study." This study led to the financing of a four-year Highway
Maintenance Project in FY69. The Project Performance Audit for this
project (Report No. M77-758) of October 25, 1977 indicated that signi-
ficant strengthening of the Government department then responsible for
maintenance operations occurred under the project. The Second Highway
Project (FY73), co-financed by USAID, comprised the reconstruction of 320
km (Parakou-Malanville) and short sections (between Godomey and Bohicon)
of Benin's south-north trunk road, the continuation of the road
maintenance program initiated under the first project, and training. The
project was satisfactorily completed. The rate of return of the Pare,kou-
Malanville road is estimated a-t 16 percent versus 13 percent at appraisal
and 30 percent versus 19 percent at appraisal when including benefits to
Niger from its transit traffic.
21.      The Third Highway Project (FY78, US$10 million), completed in
June 1983, rehabilitated a 107 km section of the country's main north-
south highway and expanded the maintenance program begun under the first
two highway projects. The project completion report for the Third High-
way Project notes that there were cost overruns and the project scope had
to be reduced during implementation. Although the economic rates of
return compared favorably with the appraisal estimates, the project com-
pletion report notes that; institutional development objectives were only
partially met. The Fourth Highway Project (FY82, SDR 9.3 million), to be
completed by 1985, provides for the resealing of a 54 km stretch carried
over from the Third Highwiay Project, plus rehabilitation of 500 km cf
gravel roads.
22.      The Government has aLso requested and IDA has approved a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) for preparation of a transport infrastructure
rehabilitation and maintenance project, following the dialogue between



-6-
IDA and the Government aimed at shifting priorities from coastruction of
new roads to maintenance of the existing network.  This project is now
being prepared. The major objectives of this project are to create capa-
city arid improve effic;iency of road maintenance, restructure the road
maintenance finances with a view toward increasing maintenance funding
and streamlining budgetary allocations and improve efficiency of trar,sit
&perations through Benin.
23.      Another area which is emerging is the provision of assistance to
the Government to improve economic planning and to rehabilitate the pub-
lic enterprise sector. These initiatives are in response to Government
requests for such assistance. D)iscussions are in progress which are
expected to lead to a project which will provide studies which will be
the basis for public enterprise rehabilitat-ion and sector reforms. A
second project undcer preparation is a technical assistance effort de-
signed to strengthen Benin's macroeconomic planning and public finance
administratiorn. Other assistance to Benin is expected to continue in the
education, urban and energy sectors. Bank involvement in the energy
sector includes two projects under preparation: the proposed S6me Oil
Field Phase II Development Project and the proposed Nangb6to Hydro-
electric Project to be implemented jointly by Benin and Togo.
24.      Benin's performance with respect to project implementation and
disbursement has been generally satisfactory. The Government is gene-
rally familiar with the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures.
Delays are sometimes encountered, however, because of the Government
inability to make timely contributions of counterpart funds. This pro-
blem has recently been exacerbated by the difficult budgetary position.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System
25.      The transport sector is important in Benin and has absorbed
about a quarter of the public investments and provided about a fifth of
the formal employment. In addition to satisfying domestic demand, the
sector supplies transit services for land-locked Niger. Prospects for
major sector developments, however, remain modest because of the small
size of the domestic market, together with economic difficulties at home
and in neighboring countries.
26.      Roads are the dominant transport mode; three-fourths of all
freight and 90% of passenger movements are by road. Overall, the extent
of the main network is adequate for Benin's needs. The Government is
planning to pave by 1988 the remaining unpaved section of the main south-
north route, the Dassa-Parakou (210 km) section. A feasibility study to
determine the economic viability of this project is expected to be
completed by end-1984.  There is a need to exoand coverage of feeder
roads to integrate areas of agricultural potential within the economy.
The deteriorated feeder roads are a constraint to expansion of
agriculture.  Equally critical is the condition of paths and trails



-7-
connecting farms to markets and collection points along the feeder
roads. Expansion of agriculture partly depends on farmers being confi-
dent that farm surpluses can be transported at a reasonable cost. Im-
proving paths and tracks would permit use of more efficient transports
than porterage (motorcycles, bicycles and public transport vehicles) to
serve farms located some distance away from feeder roads.
27.      The heart of Benin"s transport system is the international Port
of Cotonou. Port capacity was recently expanded to about 1.2 million
tons of general cargo a year with assistance from several donors includ-
ing IDA (Credit No. 826-BEN). Port traffic has ranged from 1.0 to 1.5
million tons over the past five years, including substantial transit
traffic for Nigeria through 1979 when Nigerian port capacity was ex-
panded. Although the alternative transit routes for Niger traffic have
begun to attract a part of the transit traffic, particularly through
Togo, Niger continues to rely on Benin's transit corridor and accounts
for about a third of Cotonou's total tonnage. Cotonou Port capacity is
sufficient for the foreseeable needs, although the rust-damaged pilings
of the eastern jetty will require rehabilitation soon.
28.      A bi-national autonomous agency, the OCBN, operates a 440 km
railroad line from Cotonou north to Parakou where goods bound for Niger
and northern Benin are transferred to trucks. OCBN controls the trans-
shipment and also runs two sparsely used coastal lines: (a) the 107 km
eastern link between Cotonou and Porto Novo-Pobe; and (b) the 33 km west-
ern extension connecting Segboroue to Cotonou. OCBN has been making
losses on operations since 1975. (In 1982 OCBN lost about CFAF 850 mil-
lion on revenues of CFAF 3.04 billion).  IDA's policy dialogue with the
Government is based on the recognition that while increased efficienc;y
and some increase of capacity in the main north-south corridor are
desirable, there is probably not enough traffic demand for a paved road
and a railway to co-exist in this corridor. The feasibility study
mentioned above (para. 26'1 will propose alternative courses of action to
optimize investment in the corridor.
29.      Several airlines serve the international airport at Cotonou.
Domestic civil aviation and internal waterways account for a minor share
of transport activities.
The Road Transport Sub-Sector
30.      The classified road network is reasonably adequate, amounting to
about 7,500 km, of which 930 km are paved and 3,640 km gravelled.  The
remaining 2,930 km are seasonal earth roads which, due to the lack of
maintenance, have regressed to the status of tracks and foot paths. Many
villages located along these roads are now cut off from markets and have
few commercial exchanges with the rest of the country. The road density
averages 0.065 km/km2 for the whole country, ranging from 0.050 km/km2 in
the less populated northern region to 0.130 km/km2 in the more densely
populated coastal region in the south.



- 8--
31.      The Ministry of Public Works, Construction and Houu:K:.g admin-
isters roads through its Directorate of Roads and Bridges (QROA) and sIx
provincial dlrectorates of public works (DPTPs). DROA is respons.ble for
all national aspects of road administration. DROA's oreanization
includes a Division of Studies, Planning and Control (,iC), hquipnent
Maintenance Division (SEMTP), a Road Maintenance Division (SER) and the
Feeder Roads Division (SRDR). SRDR is responsible for the planning,
construction and maintenance of feeder roads.  The DPTPs are responsible
regionally for execution of maintenance and minor constructio.. -ork on
the classified roads in coordination with the SER.  DPTP-s`perforrmance
has improved over the years, but; is still hampered by inadequate
management, poor equipment maintenance and insufficient local funds.
32.      Preparation and supervision of new main road projects lies with
SERC.  Since the domestic construction indus-tGry does not have sufficient
capacity to undertake major new works, including tnose fin~Lr.iced by
foreign aid agencies, most are undertaken by foreign contractors. Local
contracting organizations, however, generallyT carry out minor road works
such as culverts and other drainage works. Labor intensive force account
brigades managed by SRDR have been particularly successful in carrying
out construction/improvements of feeder roads under the Second Feeder
Roads Project.
33.      Roads expenditures over the past four years have averaged
CFAF 5,300 million (US$13.5 million) per year. Maintenance expenditures
have accounted for an increasing proportion of the total -- 35% in 1979-
1982, compared with 13% in the previous three years.  Expend tu-ee on
feeder roads have increased from 4% of the total in 1979 to 20% in 1982,
and are expected to continue to grow rapidly.  Foreign aid has financed
60-75% of total road outlays in recent years and 85% of expenditures on
feeder road construction. Although other donors are involved to some
extent in the feeder roads, IDA is playing a special role in improving
the planning, coordinating and efficiency of work execution and develop-
ing a maintenance capacity. IDA's strengthening of institution building,
in concert with local staff training, is now producing good results: the
output of the construction brigades is improving.  Nevertheless much
remains to be done before SRDR can effectively discharge its responsibi-
lities. Funding for maintenance, especially for feeder roads, continues
to be below the needs.
34.      Revenues raised by taxes on road users appears adequate for
covering the costs of maintenance, but the majority of the revenues thus
raised is allocated to the general budget with the main and feeder road
maintenance remaining underfunded. The proposed project will provide
temporary relief by financing maintenance expenditures. The proposed
transport infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance project
(para. 22) will address long-term maintenance requirements, including
appropriate arrangements for raising revenues commensurate with mainte-
nance needs.
35.      SRDR is responsible for planning and coordination of feeder
roads construction and maintenance. A data base for rural road planning



was established in SRDR under the Second Feeder Roads Project.  Although
the quality of SRDR's data base is improving, there remain deficiencies
particularly regarding traffic on feeder roads. SRDR compiles provin-
cial-level data on population, agricultural production and social infra-
structure.  The regional development agencies (CARDERs), taking into
account the level of interest of local communities, suggest road imprcve-
ment priorities to SRDR, which uses its data base to evaluate the local
prlorities and tc develop its annual work program.  This program is sub-
mitted for approval to the National Rural Road Construction and Mainte-
nance Coordinating Committee (CNAERDR)o The minister of MTPCH is the
chairman of CNAERDR and the commaittee comprises representatives of the
technical, finance, planning and rural development mini-stries and direc-
tors of CARDERs. The inclusion of the directors of CARDERs in this com-
mittee is a positive step to ensure that SRDR's work programs reflect
local development needs and are coordinated with the complementary
investments planned by the Ministry of Rural Development.
36.       Althoughi responsibility for unclassified roads rests in prin-
ciple with the provincial authorities, the Second Feeder Roads Project
provided short-term capacity in SRDR to ensure maintenance of 1,200 km of
feeder roads because under funded local efforts have rarely ensured all
weather usability of feeder roads.  Although late in starting, SRDR has
made satisfactory prcgress in mLaintaining designated feeder roads. Pend-
ing the development of maintenance capacity at the provincial level, the
Government agreed during negotiations to implement an action plan for
feeder road maintenance and its financing incorporating about 2,000 k.m of
priority feeder roads under the proposed project and creating a temporary
feeder roads maintenance section (FRMS) in SRDR (paras. 52 through 54 ).
An important feature of this action plan is that the Government would
assume increasing responsibility for financing the maintenance costs of
feeder roads and SRDR's annual budgets would show line items for the
counterpart funds and maintenance needs (Schedule 3, para. 3 (e) to the
draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and Special Fund Credit Agree-
ment) .
IDA Involvement in Feeder Roads
37.       The First Feeder Roads Project (Credit No. 717-BEN approved in
1977) was conceived as the first phase of a longer term  feeder roads
improvement and maintenance program. In addition to successfully esta-
blishing an effective Feeder Roads Division in MTPCH, the project tested
three different construction methods comprising equipment intensive,
moderately equipped and labor intensive brigades, and demonstrated that
under proper management, labor-intensive construction methods are compe-
titive with equipment-initensive methods.  In retrospect, the project
implementation schedule wias ontimistic.  It took 18 months before the
project was operating at the planned speed. The delay was due to cuLmber-
some administrative procedures and to the pilot nature of the project.
During this period the exchange rate of the US dollar with respect to the
CFAF deteriorated significantly and inflation was of the order of 18
percent ann-ally.  As a result of this and of cost increases over the



- 10 -
appraisal estimates, only 350 km of the t;arget 845 km were constructed
with available credit funds.
38.      The follow-up Second Feeder Roads Project (Credit No. 1090-BEN),
underway since February 1981, provides for construction of 700 km of
feeder roads and maintenance of 11250 km Snd continues institutional
development through technical assistance and training. Overall project
implementation is satisfactory with the exception of the equipment-inten-
sive brigade. Labor-intensive works have progressed well due to adequate
site management with assistance from project-f:inanced technical assist-
ance, regular and timely payment of wages to laborers, and local communi-
ties' providing sufficient and disciplined labor at modest wages. Avail-
ability of labor, however, is now becoming a constraint in some parts of
the country and for certain types of work such as quarry operations.
Works executed with the equipment intensive brigade have suffered in-
terruptions due to SRDR's relative inexperience in managing and main-
taining heavy equipment. By about June 1984, when the Second Feeder
Roads Project is expected to be completed, about 650 km of the targeted
700 km are expected to be constructed. The main reason for the shortfall
in the construction target is SRDR's relative inexperience in managing
the equipment intensive construction brigade and the resulting poor per-
formance of that brigade (para. 41).
39.      SRDR now operates a total of seven construction brigades, one
specialized bridge construction brigade and twc, maintenance brigades.
(The seven construction brigades include four labor-intensive brigades,
the problem-prone equipment intensive brigade, all financed by IDA, and
two UNCDF labor intensive brigades in the north.) With its current com-
plement of 10 brigades, including some 1,800 field and headquarters per-
sonnel, SRDR has reached the limits of effective capacity to provide site
management and logistic support to feeder road operations.
40.      A socio-economic impact study carried out during the Second
Feeder Roads Project suggests that the project roads have had a positive
effect on the villages served. New marke-ts have developed after provi-
sion of roads. Traffic on the sample of roads studied has exceeded the
appraisal estimates and is predominantly local as opposed to through
traffic.
Choice of Construction Technology
41.      For construction, the proposed project will utilize four labor-
intensive, one mechanized and one bridge brigade.  For maintenance, the
proposed project will use two existing brigades (para. 39) and a third
brigade to be created from breaking up the equipment intensive construc-
tion brigade. The use of two different construction technologies appears
the most viable solution to achieve the goal of about 300 km of works per
year. The existing equipment-intensive brigade, which has too much
equipment and as a result is relatively difficult to move between con-
struction sites, will be dismantled and its equipment shared for: (a)
creating a lighter and more mobile mechanized construction brigade to be
used under the project; and (b) creating a mechanized maintenance brigade



- 11 -
for the southern region. Additionally, the quarry operations of the
labor-intensive brigades w-lll be mechanized. The transfer of equipmerLt
should: (a) result in improved performance and manageability of the mech-
anized brigade; and (b) improve the productivity of the labor-intensive
construction brigades by a'bout '10% and reduce the critical problem of
labor recruitment by reducing the size of these labor-intensive brigades
from 275 laborers to only 175.
Road Transport and Road Transport Industry
42.      Size and composition of Benin's vehicle fleet can only be appro-
ximately determined.  The vehicle fleet appears to have remained almost
constant at about 13,000 vehicles since 1970, although its composition
has changed: passenger cars and pick-ups decreased from 83% (1970) to
56% (1979); light trucks (up to 7 tons) increased from 7% to 25%, and
heavy trucks and trailers from 10% to 19%. Fuel consumption has growna at
an average rate of 4.5% per annum between 1970 and 1981, partly attribu-
table to the changes in vehicle fleet composition. Currently, the retail
prices of gasoline and diesel in Benin are CFAF 163/lt and CFAF 132/lt
respectively, which are well above the border prices.
43.      The road transport industry consists of para-public and private
enterprises. The para-public companies are engaged in own account oper-
ations and are generally inefficient, with the fleet averaging about
20,000 km per year. IDA's ongoing dialogue with the Government is aimed
at increasing the efficiency of transport services in Benin. Most of' the
international and nationa-L trarlsport is handled by the larger private
transporters. Some 400 siall private trucking concerns, with four ve!hi-
cles or less, handle shor-t distance transport and operate fairly effi-
ciently, however, at tariffs which may be below cost due to insufficient
demand.
44.      Freight and passenger tariffs, set by inter-ministerial decree
and infrequently revised, do not generally provide transporters suffi-
cient margin to allow for proper equipment maintenance and renewal.
Since, however, private transporters do not strictly adhere to official
tariffs, in reality it is supply and demand and road conditions which
determine rates. Transport on feeder roads is particularly sensitive to
the physical condition of these roads. SRDR estimates that because of
advanced deterioration on some of the roads included under the proposed
project, up to about one half of the potentially marketable crops from
the farns served by these roads could not be evacuated during the 1980-81
harvest for lack of transport other than porterage.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
45.      The Feeder Roads Division (SRDR) of the Ministry of Public Works
and Housing prepared the project. The technical assistance team financed
under the Second Feeder Roads Project (credit 1090-BEN) helped in project
preparation.  An IDA team appraised the project in May 1983.  Negotia-



- 12 -
tions were held in Washington in April 1984. The Beninese delegation was
led by the Minister of MTPCH. Annex 3 contains supplementary project
data.  The Staff Appraisal Report No. 4901-BEN of April 27, 1984 is beir.g
circulated separately to the Executive Direct,ors.
Project Objectives
46.      The main objectives of the proposed project are to support rural
development through the construction and maintenance of feeder roads;
improve local capacity to plan and execute such works; and complement
feeder roads construction with upgrading some contiguous footpaths to
trafficable low-standard tracks.
Project Description
47.      The proposed project would finance a three-year program for
construction/improvement and maintenance of feeder roads. It would fi-
nance the strengthening of SRDR and of the Directorate of Roads and
Bridges (DROA), the latter in part to make more efficient the implement-
ation of the ongoing Fourth Highway Project. In line with the Govern-
ment's priority to rural development, the project provides for construc-
tion/improvement of 840 km of feeder roads and the maintenance of another
2,000 km of priority feeder roads.
48.      The proposed project would consist of':
(a) construction/improvement of: (i) 840 km of feeder roads;
and (ii) on a pilot basis, low standard tracks connecting
selected remote villages to these feeder roads;
(b) maintenance of about 2,000 km of feeder roads;
(c) procurement of equipment and some tools to complete equip-
ment of the existing 4 labor intensive brigades, I bridge
brigade and to replace some of the aging existing equip-
ment;
(d) technical assistance for project implementation and
training; and
(e) preparation of a fu-ture project. The proposed project
provides about US$0.63 million for preparation of a future
rural transport project in Benin. The allocation would be
used to finance consultant's services for detailed economic
and engineering studies.
49.      The Feeder Roads construction program has been established by
SRDR to reflect the local priorities of the CARDERs and is based on an
expected productivity of 100 km per year for the mechanized brigade and
50 km per year for each labor-intensive brigade. All the roads have been



- 13 -
evaluated individually for economic feasibility and are important for
ongoing rural development projects and/or the local development pr:ori-
ties of the CARDERs.
50.      The 3-year program. covers four provinces and includes 840 km of
roads of which 340 km are of particular importance for the Zou rural
development project and 182 km for the Borgou rural development project
both of which are supported by IDA. The first year construction program,
consisting of 240 km is firm, and has been approved by CNAERDR. The
second and third year programs remain indicative and subject to change
because they have not yet been approved by CNAERDR. During negotiations,
the Government agreed that in case of modification of the second and
third year tentative programs, roads substituted for those included in
the indicative program would have a minimal economic rate of return of
12% and each year's work program would reflect a reasonable geographic
coverage in the four provinces. Additionally the CNAERDR approved second
and third year work programs would be submitted for IDA review at least
three months before the beginning of their implementation and construc-
tion work would start only after IDA approval of the work program (Sche-
dule 3, paras. 2 (b) and (c) to the draft DCA and Special Fund Credit
Agreement).
51.      In view of its experimental nature and its modest cost, the list
of tracks in the pilot program of low standard tracks has not been speci-
fied as yet. The works will consist of upgrading some existing foot
paths linking remote villages to feeder roads. The works would be li-
mited to provision of drainage, widening the carriage way to 3.50 meters
and minimal graveling to provide all-year accessibility for four-wheeled
light vehicles. During negotiations the Government agreed on the fol-
lowing criteria to select tracks for upgrading: (a) individual trackE do
not exceed 10 km in length, (b) each track links one or more small communi-
ties to a feeder road constructed under the project; (c) the beneficiary
communities are willing to provide labor for maintenance of the track;
and (d) the provincial authorities include in the annual budgets sufficient
funds to cover the recurrent costs of track maintenance (Schedule 3,
para. 2 (e) to the draft DCA and Special Fund Credit Agreement). The
project would provide hand-tools and training to maintain the tracks
during the first year.
52.      Because of the uncertain quality of current maintenance efforts,
the project would provide for the maintenance of about 2,000 km of prior-
ity feeder roads. These priority roads include those constructed under
first and second IDA-financed projects and those financed by UNCDF and.
EDF. Three hundred kilometers of these priority feeder roads are already
being maintained by the DPTPs and will continue to be so maintained under
SRDR's supervision.
53.      To ensure proper maintenance of feeder roads and adequate fi-
nances for this purpose, the Government agreed during negotiations to
implement an Action Plan for the maintenance and financing of feeder
roads.  As part of this action plan, a feeder road maintenance section
(FRMS) would be created in SRDR by December 31, 1984, and would be fully



- 14 -
operational by June 30, 1985. The FRMS will be headed by an experienced
Beninese engineer and assisted by a road supervisor experienced in road
maintenance. FRMS would, inter alia, plan, program and execute routine
and periodic maintenance. It would have three regional offices: one for
the smaller southern provinces, and one each for the larger Atacora and
Borgou provinces. During negotiations, Government should agree that each
regional office will be headed by an experienced technician and assisted
by a road supervisor to be in position by December 31, 1984, to make sure
that planned maintenance is executed. Routine maintenance will be done
b- gangs oi about 20 laborers attached to each ragional office (Schedule
3. paras. 3 (b) and (c) to the draft DCA and Special Fund Credit Agree-
ment). The number of gang.3 in each regional office will vary depending on
the number of the feeder roads to be maintairned. Each gang will maintain
about 100 km of feeder roads.  For unforeseen needs, each regional office
will have one gang of 15 laborers trained to handle emergency mainte-
nance.  Technical assistance would be provided to assist the management
and operations of this section and the project would finance the sec-
tion's operating costs. FRMS would be integrated in the SER after SER's
road maintenance capacity is developed under a future transport infra-
structure rehabilitation and maintenance project.
54.      Routine mainrtenance operations would be done essentially by la-
bor-intensive methods while seasonal grading would be carried out by me-
chanized methods. A second mechanized brigade for use in the south would
be created (with part of the equipment made available from dismantling
the existing heavy mechanized brigade) to supplement the existing mecha-
nized maintenance brigade (para. 41).
55.      The project includes a total of 160 man-months of technical
assistance and 60 man-months of volunteer's service to be provided by the
Netherlands: (i) to SRDR for implementation of the project and of the
training program; (ii) for carrying out a socio-economic impact study to
monitor the growth of traffic and analyze motives for trips generated,
assess the medium-term (10-year) needs for feeder roads, and monitor the
pilot scheme for low-cost tracks; (iii) to DROA for MTPCH training center
in Cotonou and the Equipment Maintenance Division (SEMTP).
56.      The heavy infusion of technical assistance under the project is
justified since counterpart staff were made available late in the Second
Feeder Roads Project and, therefore, have nct yet been fully trained.
The main objective of the technical assistance component is to enable
SRDR staff to assume gradual responsibility for management, planning,
operation and execution of all feeder roads projects. To make sure,
inter alia, that the needed counterpart staf'f are available in order not
to delay transfer of technology and ensure smooth transition of functions
when the technical assistance is being phased out, Government, during
negotiations, agreed to assign by December 1984, and thereafter continue
to maintain in employment, qualified counterpart staff for the duration
of the project (Section 3.02 (b) to the draft DCA and Special Fund Credit
Agreement).



- 15 -
57.       A training program has been established in consultation with the
Government. The technical assistance team will be responsible for the
training program's implementation. The training needs have been evalu-
ated for SRVR's staff only.  DROA staff Members, however, will be wel-
comed to participate in the trainirg nroRram.  The trainees will be
trained at various locations based on their geographical work site.  The
project provides funds for purchase of training equipmert and Material
and also for the travel and subsi.stanice of local instruct;ors and trairees
on a slidin: scale based on the grade levels of );ne instructor and
trainees. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it will
implement the training program (Schedule 3, para. 4 to the draft DCA and
Special Fund Credit Agreement).
Cost Estimate and Financing Plan
58.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties is esti-
mated at US$13.2 million equivalent. Foreign exchange costs are esti.-
mated at US$5.95 million equivalent or 45% of the total cost. The pro-
posed project would be financed on the following basis:
Financing Plan
US$ thousands
Local        Foreign         Total
IDA                             3,120          2,880          6,000
IDA Special Fund                2,935          3,065          6,000
Government                       1,200           --           1,200
Total                       7,255          5,945        13,200
Implementation
59.       Implementation of the project will be the responsibility of
MTPCH through DROA. Civil works will be carried out by force account,
under management of SRDR and maintenance of equipment entrusted to SIBMTP.
The undisbursed credit under the Second Feeder Roads Project still per-
mits SRDR to execute works until around June 1984. Implementation of the
proposed project is expected to start at the beginning of the dry season,
in September 1984, and the project is expected to be completed by Septem-
ber 1987.



- 16
Procurement
60.       Procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ million equivalent)
ProcurEment YMthod a/         Total Project
Category   Items to be procured        ICB      LCB    C'he -      N.A.          Cost
1       Technical assistance,                         2.11 b/                  2.E0
volunteer services,                          (1.40)                   (1.40)
training, socio-economic
study, future project
preparation
2       Road construction equipment,  1.30   1.52                              2.82
spare parts, equipnent     (0-00)   (1.52)                            (1.52)
repairs and maintenance
3       Locally purchased                    0.62                              0.62
materials and tools                 (O.C0)                           (O.00)
4       Fuels and lubricants                          1.31-/                   1.31
(0.92)                  (0.92)
5       Wages and salaries                                      5-65 -/        5.65
(2.16)        (2.16)
Total project                       1.30     2.       4.11       6-1
a/  Amounts enclosed in parenthesis indicate amount of Special Fund
Credit participation.
b/ From sole source national supplier.
c/  Of which Government will contribute US$1.2 million equivalent.
Technical assistance services will be procured in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Goods manufactured locally would be given a preference mar-
gin of up to 15% or the applicable custom's duties, whichever is less.
All contracts whose estimated costs are expected to exceed US$100,000                         4
equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review. Government intends to
exempt all project components from taxes and other transfer payments.
Disbursements
61.       Disbursements from the IDA Credit and Special Fund Credit would
be on the following basis:



- 17 -
Allocation and Disbursements of IDA Credit and Special Fund Credit
(US$ million equivalent)
% Total Estimated cost to be disibursed from
Category         Item No.                   Amounts b/      IDA Credit    IDA Special Fund Credit
(USs'000)
1         Technical assistance,            2,100              50                   --
volunteer services,                                --                    50
training socio-economic
study, future project
preparation
2         Road construction equipment   1,000                100                   __
spare parts, equipment         (1,200)             --                   100
repairs and maintenance
3         Locally purchased                  500             100
materials and tools
4         Fuels and lubricants               300              30
(700)                                  7C
5         Wages and salaries               1,695              40
(1,605)                                  38
6         Unallocated                      1,455
(1,445)
Total                          12,000
a/  IDA and Special Fund Credits will finance routine maintenance on a
declining percentage basis: 85% in 1985; 50% in 1986; 30% in 1987;
and 0% thereafter.
b/  Amounts enclosed in parenthesis indicate amount of Special Fund Credit.
62.      During negotiations, the Government agreed, in support to the
monthly statements of-expenditures, to prepare for each brigade monthly
reports showing operating costs, actual and expected productivity, and
the unit construction cost incurred by each brigade (Section 3.05 (c) of
the draft DCA and Special Fund Credit Agreement).  No disbursement appli-
cations less than US$20,000 equivalent would be accepted by IDA. Sepa-
rate IDA and Special Fund revolving funds of US$200,000 equivalent (each
to cover about three months of project expenditures) will be established
and will be replenished on the basis of the regular Government reimburse--
ment applications in equal proportions from the IDA and the Special Fund
Credits. The opening of two accounts in a commercial bank for the
revolving funds would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a)
of the draft DCA and Special Fund Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
Benefits and Risks
63.      Project benefits which are amenable to quantification are the
incremental value added to agricultural production.  Value added is de-
rived as a function of production increases plus the reduction of spoil-
age of potentially marketable crops which would not be evacuated in the
"without" project scenario for lack of reasonable transport.  Agricul-
tural production increases will occur as a result of (a) inaputs from
extension services; and (b) additional lands which will be brought under
cultivation as a result of population increases over the years. These
changes are dependent on the better access which will be provided by the
project roads.
64.      By 1986, an estimated 290,000 rural residents of Borgou, Mono,
Oueme and Zou provinces representing about 8% of the nation's population
would be direct beneficiaries. Of the bene?ficiaries, about 20,000 would
be people who are expected to migrate to the project's zone of influence
after the roads are improved.
65.      At this stage, only the first year's program has been identified
in detail. For the 19 roads included in the first project year, the ERRs
range from a low of 16% to a high of 46%. One-third of the ERRs are in
the 16% to 20% range while about one half are in the 20% to 40% range
with the rest falling in the 41% to 46% range. The overall ERR for the
first year program is a satisfactory 29%. Assuming a pessimistic scena-
rio whereby the construction costs increase by 20% and the benefits drop
simultaneously by 20%, the overall first year program's ERR still remains
a satisfactory 14%.
Risk Minimization
66.      There are no special risks beyond slow and uncoordinated imple-
mentation and insufficient maintenance. The risk of slow implementation
would be minimized by: (a) strengthening SRDR through technical assist-
ance and training of field and office personnel; (b) annual reviews of
SRDR's work programs prior to starting construction; and (c) coordination
of complementary activities through the CARDERs. In an effort to assure
adequate maintenance the project provides for FRMS to be set up in SRDR,
and for its operating costs to be financed on a decreasing percentage
basis. The project would involve use of sorae state-owned land for late-
rite excavation and improvement to the alignment of existing tracks; this
is not expected to produce any major environmental risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of Benin and the Association, the draft Special Fund Credit
Agreement between the People's Republic of Benin and the Association as
Administrator of the Special Fund established with funds contributed by



- 49 -
certain members of the Association, and the Recommendation of the Comm4+
tee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association, are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
68.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex 3 to this report. Special conditions of effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement and Special Fund Credit Agreement would be:
(a) the opening of two special accounts; and (b) cross-effectiveneis of
the two Agreements (Section 6.01 of both the draft Development Credit
Agreement and Special Fund Credit Agreement).
69.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the proposed
Special Fund Credit would comply with Resolution No. IDA 82-6 of October
26, 1982, of the Executive Directors.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and Special Fund Credit.
Attachments                                                A.W. Clausen
Washington, D.C.                                             President
May 2, 1984                                              by Ernest Stern



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page I of 4
BENIN
BENIN                     - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BENUL                                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED A4ERAAC-E) /a
KOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
1 Lb    197(/b  RECENT                 LOW INCOME                MIDDLE INCOME
1960j'b      t970-  ESTIMATE/-b         AFRICA S. OF SAHARA        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
AIuA (THOUSAND SQ. CM)
TOTAL                                   112.6         112.6        112.6
AGRICULTURAL                             19.8          20.4         22.4
GNP P! CAPITA (US$)                         100.0        140.0         320.0                254.6                       1147.9
ENUY CONSUMPtION PSU  CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           38.0          55.0         70.0                  79.8                        724.2
POPULATIO  AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    2050.0            2659.0       3595.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)             9.5          12.6         14.b                  19.5                         26.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                     6.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                      24.5
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                    2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            18.2         23.6          30.3                 29.5   .                      56.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND                103.4        130.2         155.5                 94.1                        131.8
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                              44.1         45.3          46.i                 45.0                          45.9
15-64 YRS                              53.3         52.0          51.                  52.1                         51.2
65 AND ABOVE                            2.6          2.7           2.3                  2.9                          2.8
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                   2.2           2.6          2."                  2.8                           2.8
UENAN                                   5.8          5.4           4.]                  6.2                           5.3
CRUDE BIRTH KATE (PER THOUS)             50.6          49.3         49.0                 47.9                          47.6
CRUDE DEATU KATE (PER THOUS)             26.8          22.1         17.1.                19.2                          15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.3           3.3          3.2                   3.2                          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)                ..
USERS (% OF MARRID WOMEN)               ..            ..
FOOD AND MVrTITION
INDEX OP FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                            95.0        101.0          92.(                 87.6                         95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMIENTS)         100.0         97.0         103.0U                88.0                         97.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               55.0         54.0          54.0                 51.2                         56.0
OF WHIC11 ANIMAL AND PULSE            15.0         15.0          13.0/c               18.1                         17.2
CGHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE             49.0          41.2         33.2                 25.7                          23.6
8gALThI
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            37.2         42.1          49.9                 47.4                          51.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)           205.6        179.4         152.1                126.5                         117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%PoP)
TOTAL                                    ..            ..         21.U                 24.7                         25.4
UKBAN                                    ..            ..         52.0                 56.6                         70.5
RURAL                                    ..            ..         16.0                 18.3                         12.3
ACCESS TO EXCKETA DISPOSAL
(1 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..          14.0           ..                  2d.1
URBAN                                    ..         63.U            ..                  65.7
RUKAL                                    ..           1.U            .                  21.9
POPULATION PER POYSICIAN              23030.0      28590.0       17050.0              2742U.6                      121u1.o
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                2700.0/cL    2870.0        1670.0               3456.2                       2292.0'
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 750.0        850.0         730.0/c             1183.2                       1075.4
URBAN                                 540.0        230.0         390.07W              380.b                        402!.3
RURAL                                 780.0       2200.0        1120.0/c             3177.5                       3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER IOSPITAL BED                 ..         30.2         17.7/e
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF KOUSEHOLD
TOTAL
URBAN
RURAL                                    ..            ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..            ..
URBAN                                    ..            ..
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL
URBAN
KURA- F- AL



- 21 -
ANNEX 1
BENIN                     - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BENIN                                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIYATE)  4b
RECENT                LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
19_-         1970-_  ESTIMAT4b         AFRICA S. OF SAHARA        AFRICA S. OF SAIARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                       27.0         40.0         62.0                  63.9                        97.2
MALE                      38.0          55.0         84.0                 73.6                        103.1
FEMALE                    15.0          25.0         39.0                 51.6                         38.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                        2.0          6.0         16.0                 12.5                         L7.2
MALE                        2.0          9.0         23.0                 16.7                         23.5
FEMALE                      1.0          3.0          8.0                  8.1                         14.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)              12.9          4.1          8.1                   7.3                          5.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                41.0         44.0         48.0                  46.4                        42.9
SECONDARY                              23.0         25.0         31.0/e               25.1                         23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (5)                   4.6         11.0/i       27.9                  36.5                        37.1
CONSlJFPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP               1.4          4.6           5.5/f                3.3                        18.b
RADIO RECEIVLRS/THOUSAND POP             12.2         32.0          71.9                 45.3                        97.8
TV EECEiVERS/TtIOUSAND POP                ..           ..            0.1                  2.2                         18.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                  1.5          0.8          0.3                   4.7                        18.2
CINEIA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           O.Z          0.5           0.3/f                1.0                          0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (riHOUS)             1049.0       1292.0       1621.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      45.4          45.1         45.3                 34.5                         36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                  54.0         50.0         46.0                 7o.9                         56.b
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      9.0         12.0         16.U                  9.8                         17.5
PARTICIPATION 'EATE (PERIENT)
TOTAL                                  51.2         48.6         45.1                 40.9                         37.0
MALE                                   57.1         54.3         51.4                 53.0                         47.1
FEMALE                                45.5          43.1         39.3                 28.9                         27.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.9          1.0           1.1                  1.2                          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST Si OF HOUSEHOLDS              31.4/S
HIGHEST 20T OF HOUS'iEOLDS             51.7           ..
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS                5.5/          ..
LOWEST 407 OF duJSEH1OLOS              15.8{          ...
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSULUTE PUVERTY INCOM.'E
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UR8A                                     ..           ..           . .               165.9                        534.2
RURAL                                    ..           ..         84.0/h               87.4                        253.9
ESTIMATEU RELAELVE POVEKTY INCUME
LEVEL (U0$ PER CAPITA)
iRBAN                                    ..           ..           ..                100.8                        491.5
RURAL                                    ..           ..         b2.0/h               64.6                        18?.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY 1iC0'D, LEVCL (7)
URBAN                                    ..           ..           .                  39.5
RURAL                                    ..           ..         65.0                 69..
4                             . .  NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 r E S
/a The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countrLes anong the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not oniform.
/6  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 19t9 and
1971; and data for "MLost Recent Estliate" between 1979 and 1981.
lc  1977; /d 1962; Ie 1975; /f 1976; /g Population; /h 1976; /i 1973.
May 1983



-22-
ANNEX 1
Page I f 4
TAPrtl"1iOOg Or SOCIAL lOOlCCSNd0
W"t.;'  91t60Wh tIne d..t. Ate dCat Pm    O:oaoO   ae"arlty Jodgd Otho wr  .tathorItatIno  eed 9.11.41l., it mMa.cd al.o  bo oAted 'thAt Oft. as  oot h  intacnnaleoaly
dLouap .. ll  bocot. of tOt  la,ck,of ataa4.odicad  Mafinicna  so   clo.-Pt: Laa   by difforont Coudtrtoins I oIlcel(,tg  rh. data.  TVA 4.00  Aa,. #aotethela.c, gefet to
doc-ibo  ordsrv of   gnt ids          diCtat  toaroda, a,01 ohartat.tis  Cartal        WarO differ.rao    hmfow.  oOtr,oota.
Tha ar-c.oo   groups arc IlI tIh,  -..outry gr...p of th. gobjeet                         daatrpsd (2) a  ontpgru   with  asoht highs           0.0.fes   hnth    ser   otgo    h
tail.n  oaory  owapoft H"igh  nos  Oil tapertirso  group  ebon"tiiddia InIte. North Afide. .4  NMI4.. Uac    1   1mW   be....e of a ftregrt 6Aotrdi-ItJVO
otfinltee),   n. flo  rafarnoa  grup dat  th. aoreecaat, peulItlw oightod drittf.tt     "all for  stojdntrof04.1   epvtemjority of thm  redstrisa  in
grop bo dt.  or  hAt  IndfoLoo        fo   thu   ooaao   .Outta    sg  tho  indicator  dapoedsacn tIm   at lblI dy  o   ata ead to ot o4iforo, eattioo cIt 
-troae   L.  ...utinoaaa%                  f LMon. ..od Iou   Lo anooha.  T000. cafsar.  oliyseu -910A teopartu  :h. 0.1.  of ott  tdi.at.r at a toa omon4  thi  tu,lr sod
r.t. ofotOo   loopet cSlagw.0  era  on  tLan.d   wact; 19W),                                  bytOijAlfo!aa  od Ita   arhul at   Ivoricatp  1...
an d  MD0 duta.                                                             ~                                                                  oLotte   dirIdod by a.har of PoaotctLn9
crop.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......                         I  ..         .A" .stuaa  aohe   ndAtoha   grdtao  to T"to  fll;   9,  norsi,, a... Iario.s
197D1 ..o  9d IS  fate.10 (g~g(g Jo IOitol hod - total. u-rboo.04rei- git    (total,
a, hu.  and rural)  dff Ld0  by their   apatn   flse f hait:, bad.
GlNP YUo CAPITA (U011-liI   0  ocpiu  a t 1.0  at  --rrrt .arhet prite. ,aalfl ,                                                 P.tio        prtai    eea    n   opsoiclice   heoptial 0.4I
10II11OTfUb7i~  OOoorioo  otind uaWor    Batok Atlac  (1979-91 heel.)                            raot  ioononco                 opti    r    o        l a.nt   P.rasOy   tfo
lOW), IRTO, and  941 dana.                                                                                    hy at Il.u.t o.  pyiio             eth   If.ocProol   o   rnia   ptse   a
tor   ar  00  trolaed. Rura  hoapitals, L0.00r, (colodwathealth ad
poaspOOOP  001ad                 'Itntc,p.rouantul  snd hyde-  rulaaI...... . u.., sA-idotfe, co)  h(                                                         ffa   Ie-pattot  . ..... .ti-a aid
nA    eobralo       Ioti         Lp)I A,h orc    fIowa         .....Itgo,t prcapta                            protidc a Eltaild rag. of oedioalfo 16 (0(t00.  forcslato   prec
194),19,eo   19ff da.ta.                                                                                      u      Not  oytl    -lniad  WHO. pr.tncpallgcnaraI hooploat1, adrua
roytlo    os   or rura I W.pitola e.  a i1   l    aaw at y nt  ..n.sfra.
P0yULAi.ON Aol) VITA, PTATIOTICi                                                                                tpaoiali .4 hocPita. ore Inoludd only andar tent.l
10t01 PoOnletion. 9f-Ioan  Itoaa-4ev, - A. of  MuY 1; 1960, 1900, Ond 19I1                                                                               -b etlnahr elodieln   to or diechargo
fete.                                                                                                        rohcdaIf INoidcf by rh   nua'lbar of bode.
Urbnift     loo   lo-rn t?Zof 000011- Ratio  of  rc   to total popultion;
diftn   dtwtoou0  orbIe  araoa            say att.o borility 00 deta                        9)1019)
006ootts11960, 1970, 000  1991 date.f                                                          toarego  tie.  Nfbo.:,hold (oarooo   r   h-audeoi   - totaW*  rhe   a   Ural
!STiiWfeT         DOl   - Curan   ppuato   pr)dn on   r    oafo   90ad thoir  ttn  -tale.  A hoaodae or  -egrsy or sa                                                  .et ho iLtldcd Ic
000.1  puyulonioo  hy adc   Af00adtheir Aotle   edfr  r1Ilo                                     the hroehhld f00 etotiantioa   pop1
onnat   Troeoilo   puoeener   f o  earnlltyto..  -pariac  of000Oorenaa   of P--on    r, tC.-   total. ,rb-n.ad rua    w                                                         baanahe
capita  Inoosa  Isoal , and  I~elo  IlPa  aopeooano n etobL lo   at 71.1                doal I'lnac,  oapoontoolY.  Deel11 log   celd. nrpraotaroua    n
ylnno   prfromo II    Oathl~  .o.iy .    thn               LIdgo n   of   t  oe'e nin....noot. lotal doinget ( ttb   ofo diott  In  loin                                    hdrnr   00 .,.ensg
the   ito  ra. u10 OqoO   noo.fot,rt,  n                 thoo agoLIDCtTlI
ocout urn   nseit  oone .nt.d Ut4le ta atl.o   onydttrn  lt    ose                    ~         W Tgoo   50    aica                 A 
eaob 90.ral 10 of onao  roleong    haIr  ooo lf.r pron.  te-tfttoour1nildun   dfal                                 "ga       t    I. rAar -plctl a.prctao ofra.ih
plL    itinaoew.aeloelo   I  hcentt.prJtiA-hrotr.prcc1clolea    oultos;nougyIoudoOilrnagdbl
1oflth. of    ,t rI a pplt.Lo  .,In     oco  1007, at d  o.t.  nato  "I                             EDUCATInf  OeN    o    dundfrdlaoilegh   0piayaue                                   o
lotfilir  rtc ,11 nry.tc...    nt1  1.0.-1-tI.   .eog.1.                                                      ornrocluloraI.uoto                       ,Yrion   nyOoo   10  peroa
Laceanoor    tonitInI  ne tef-I  ... per  10  Ot oar                              tOc.Am                     000ppl   r _.10   oraoo   heo  loa   .101a
001.1  , .r.a;19h0                                     h.7',on  19   data,   tpupl .u..                              otlyof ..n  1  ycroI soa;               -1 ooreoon dno    oreea rc
fnoily;   960   9711 and "I199 ..t. Motati,na  erroleo                                                                              ronto  eondrlwt-yOotoa .. oO,itaipon
tw  .u.oio   .... ttnotun  lono-    o  -. Cfotldn"r. y0-1 fer, b-       nlclog-og                              II_- innof   telotul. Arefa bl.  0r AtOofi thoOto  eniol. oph nt   Irepnd
or  -  0, VI06 dod  1970fl.0                                                                       -ynnetai   of et1dATd po peI      oao..It....t.  an  000
0000yo~u1cton;t80,l9O    nod108  Anna,t   b"0911J,0P17IA109                                                        -1,,.d
Ird    un Rui nr  f`cod.                                                                                               I lruo   ota   .  luao    fel-orPoana  ln  rVjy.qjopl7   -   I... eng .. oar   o-pit.o ott
poplo  o,   )t, 97,. o.. I  at,               0ar  .0006Vc---.),o -kpoooO;eoldncemu .0cc   Oeeeccn
lopoIorpyontoAc.   -Woooa   nohe   ofosabirauoon001   000  orol y...soolt
nomaocru  to, yrld  I  cO  oyeolonotpro000  ae-eaolloOrdo                                      ~Al  tyio  f  onancr   fr rdi
fotIt    oo;   aol     v-.orocaoodlWI   90    07,nWgnrApntpriooAnfo   uueln    nldcn
199;.                                                                       11000.04  room looro~~~~~~~~p   In  ont. loadI   er    hnrgart of              radio LI
pooro.                                                                                                TVI    m     ,,tg5y, or~) arlruen    on,ell       Vrte'toeofr  r ocnn
10010Ploot    tloert   oorooor of , nP,a ,,sl-yroooo    7rnInb                                        oe        o  1   e tino,t .... p..0 lot In..; rn, - Tudt 00100.0. 7rto r
ri oo..   m   A1 9000000 dW.... Oo                                                                      dt,o.r , 1;o.otO      etoouo    oualn      Vn                  000
Oy7  0',070I   110 0                                                                                    lOt,., 11"00010Oor.  OOOIlrnOor,0000000prorl
000  OuOc  t,r 01   10  1190-0.1.1, .  rOd ..0 p0. thloA P 0...00 .   of0 000 t0, oroIl:tO rt.:orolnt S rrno Y                                          rn      V0I,on,n
00000L1II PA,.ooo  Coo 4PI h.-oWooidiFt               Pr,o.  0    c[A,   oon                                  oo  'o I         f 1000    1Ino   ornloock
Colo   01rcd       00 D."u                 -1.49090   000000 nP.n 00thrroro ItdOCIt00-
y               -ore,an ,canr yt aooo.-yhor   up..e  -elde,gi 00105.1 fsd 000,iosarbc    80  197   00W  199  dath--Aa.d                                        P"ail
qur  000ue   nfodpoasig   n    050   nIooiu   o.                         00.Inoo2A                                     Y:LI aortre0  p  onOo   0trl1.0    ot
00 000,acol  lan.           19110    97   nd100f  c                                                             ndreor An to00cf  a  0   . onAo ot-  E.,a-9labor  frA    190
Pa.000 birth    11 of orote-    sooca .Pton WaIf   prOtOtO ono LI          f PCa  tolt_O1197ad.901 dhAta -
ne   uyyo    o    00Wy          o   upyf         fndI  dfno   o  bVe,                                  otllIto   tt   lo -rcoo  -. to gtl, salo,  d  totf-prI a,Into
Weo.rnrt   fr  1  ootoonofelolooI  11  poOo   tnOctoo                                             ut_lprtoaeoruoda'nto    sol,  oolfo-l tohur -orcg
olloom,ocoo7 oT 017 grn   fttl7000prgy512   reto   nolttoret c0   00,   nob  so,                                                                   fonol   poul ,loofal  oo   rcpNtio.l-;
pan    rt In,   f    d011   ..cor   0 C01  to. di1,0   prtin -y'10000                              .96,_ .977-   el-f 19- do.,UI. TOco       ar   10      ... tIl -oni :h Ip-l     rte
of-A-_   10 00000            -)vrg   Ion~ t.o LiIoon.d            I rpot   SyrO1   0                         0 eik. ,,. -    oro11 trhr n.t  iorol Vre.dlI.d --                          i    --
010100 -Wo   II 7004        ,dd) turn-?;  100_1 -,.90nt;W _ eto                                          Oronhonblo  he040        aI   -Rd    fpfltlron                    tan        0W000
to... o -oo  0010-10  and  p0t,00d- 1pr000pe  f             1961-It, 19711 004  1977
fate.                                                                                                  I9A1OV  119912700
ChIld0000   1-0  1000  000  1 O ct-1  t    .... i--unu   deo   j0,oo oI                           *.PircenneeM  0!1- pot _oto   ... n      1111100   n  010W1101y   p 000100W  by-l.dine rt
oouOloto   00 : d_,ttr    rn100-bo;18,   91tr    W   dote .                                                ltocO0      1960.             d  91  ..
otlO  -tI              I011dY1.00 dI... ~di1                                                                       190117..719.0.17
00  tlnn  _9( , 1170 ao  101.at,                                                                         ho  dnolooproo   010occ   oab1
Itu  onhId ou   per nI;en l96    e5 01900001  1980,   10al19 dott,                                           beolot   po-vorniy,- In        d o1, .11  one   0000-00R 1001  beloooOtI nu,I... Co9
V                ;oonlt,uoOOcO  no oo t mo  yto.nno          ...tn .... nyno9 ,  r                    uo    etln poot-y  on     leon               I,, on-lod   oP aooug   rn        o ryt
oooroeyolo    O   OOnOa oo L         I 10010,  by peOAlu   poyloloo. fl       In. o-crolc  Ioo.   _1 100 uunte.                                        o1011  0,100   too  tin.. .ur.
110  .doo1, 1r1, I-, Il IhOl t     pt  00000 n       Ietodo.       .,-d2   ,..t                                                                                              I      r
oor ri.       Ia   r  ..nWVpo~    ~n0 II on Io, odnnf   -roo   000A0 h0rfr.
flaptWold to      d prSooAgoo   19t6to65  1970olo   yopo9 tion    00,000-d4 "WItoocolPItil   d.    5  ,,  6    d   .1L
CIhLy  loolood   ohr o)llaht- 00000     l ..0..0001,  -lt  or  lIhoAiooO-t- Pb                                                                        Pth 0I, - 0  nd k000d 1 -bOo-   by o  1,ton
boouou,r 000000  rod ouat-00000  ty   010n-o,,rot  yntOou On no 0,00 ot PO                                                     P.ooofn o_90010.10  00   PrVI  cnloO   bopornocon
yrlo   sod   tol rotolonoth'      _I'i                   -;p -                                                                                    - 2  j.           y It LOWS      4   p .I 



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
BENIN
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1981                                                               ANNUAL RATE OF GROTEH,%
(1978 constant prices)
US$ Million               % of GDP                               1976-81
GDP at Market Prices                  951.8                     100.0                                 3.1
Gross Domestic Investment             333.6                      35-0                                 14-1
Gross Domestic Saving                   12.5                      1.3                                 9.5
Current Account Balance              -328.9                    -34.6                                 14.2
Exports of Goods, NFS                 298.9                      31.4                                 11.5
Imports of Goods, NFS                 658.0                      69.1                                 7.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981               Value Added                     Labor Force            Value added per Worker
US$ Million     %         Thousand            %           USS      _
Agriculture                           369.8        44.5        1,220.0         73.6           303.1     59.9
Industry, Construction
and Public Works                    102.5        13.4          100.3          6.1          1021.9    201.8
Services                              367.6        42.1         338.2          20.3          1086.9    214.6
GDP at Factor Cost                 839.9       100.0        1658.5         100.0           506.4    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(CFA? Billion)                % of GDP
1981                 1981      1976-81  a
Current Revenue                        52.6                  20.6       16.6
Current Expenditures                   34.8                  13.8       11.3
Investment Expenditures                25.1                   9.8        4.7
Transfers                               0.4                   0.2        0.4
Net lending                             2.8                    1.1       2.0
Overall deficit (-)                -10.5                  -4.1       -1.2
External Borrowing                      13.9                  5.4        2.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES               1976        1977      1978       1979      1980       1981
(Billion CFAF Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                  30.6        34.9      39.0       46.7      61.4       71.3
Net Claims on Central Government      -7.1         -9.4     -12.9      -11.8     -17.5      -20.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector a/       32.1        38.6      47.1       59.4      85.0       87.0
(Percentage or Index Number)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP      22.5         23.2     23.2       23.9      28.5       27.6
General Price Index (1978=100)         83.8         86.8    100.0      113.3      131.1     159.2
Annual Percentage Change in:
General Price Index                   ..           3.6     15.2       13.3      15.7       21.4
Net Claims on Central Gov't.          .,         -32.4    -37.2        8.5     -48.3      -19.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector         ..          20.2     22.0       26.1      43.1        2.6
a/ Average,
b/ Includes Public Enterprises.



- 24 -
ANNEX 2
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN
(as of September 30)1983)
US$ million)
Credit                                                                 Amount less
number        Year     Borrower               Purpose                  Cancellation   Undisbursed
Six credits fully disbursed         40.05
583-BEN       1975      Benin       Rural Education & Training            4.00             0.04
746-BEN       1977       Benin      Third Highway                        10.00             0.04
826-BEN       1978       Benin      Cotonou Port                         19.30             0.50
997-BEN       1980      Benin        Industrial Development              10.00             7.12
1090-BEN       1981       Benin      Feeder Roads                          700 a/                b
1127-BEN       1981      Benin       Borgou Province Rural Dev.           20.00 a/         13.21 Y
1142-BEN       1981      Benin       Fourth Highway                       11.30 a/          6.05 b/
1171-BEN       1981       Benin       Cotonou Water Sanitation             5.00 a/          2.86 b/
1189-BEN       1981      Benin       Power, Eng. and TA                    1.82 a/          0.84 b/
1207-BEN       1982      Benin       Technical Assistance in
petroleum sector                  8.00 a/         4-45 b
1246-BEN       1982       Benin       Second Education                    14.00 a/         11.96 bi
1314-BEN       1983      Benin       Zou Rural Developmient               20.00 a/         18.91
TOTAL                              170.47            67.93
of which has been repaid              9.58
TotaL now outstanding               160.89
Total now held by IDA              160.89
Total undisbursed                   67.93
al  Computed at the rate of the approval dates.
b/ Computed at the 09/30/83 rate of 1.05684.
WAPT2
March 1984



-25 -                 ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
BENIN
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I               Timetable of Key Events
(a)    Identification:  the project was identified by an
IDA mission in June 1982, and prepared by SRDR.
(b)    Appraisal mission:  May 1983.
(c)    Negotiations:  April 1984.
(d)    Planned date of effectiveness:  August 1984.
Section II              Special IDA Implementation Actions
Special conditions of effectiveness: The two
special accounts for the IDA and Special Fund
Credit would have been opened in a commercial bank
(para. 62).
Section III             Special Conditions
During negotiations, satisfactory agreements were
reached with the Government on the following
principal points:
(a)    implementing an action plan for feeder road main-
tenance and its financing, creating a tempo-rary
feeder roads maintenance section (FRMS), showing
line items in SRDR's annual budgets for cowuter-
part funds and maintenance needs (para. 36) and
filling specified posts in FRMS (para. 53);
(b)    tentative work programs for the second and third
years (para. 50):  (i) in case of modification of the
second and third year tentative work programs,
roads substituted for those in the tentative work
programs must have a minimal ERR of 12%; and (ii) each
year's work program should reflect a reasonable
geographic coverage in the four provinces;



- 26--                ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
(c)    work program review and approval:  submission of
the CNAERDR approved work programs for the second
and third years for IDA approval at least three
months before their implementation (para. 50);
(d)    criteria for selecting low-cost tracks to be con-
structed and their subsequent maintenance
(para. 51);
(e)    assigning by December 1984, all counterpart staff
for technical assistants, and thereafter contin-
uing to maintain them in employment for the dura-
tion of the project (para. 56);
(f)    monthly reports to be prepared showing the
operating costs, actual and expected productivity
and the unit construction cost incurred by each
brigade (para. 62).
WAPT2
Apr. 1984
J



m~~~~~~~~~~~~~  A2'I 4GE'
N CEO    /~~~~~~~~ IG   
UPPER ~~                     /> NIE
VOLTA -,l                    1             
N ~  iGERA                                '
4F-l CO  iLLA    12  O    A                  -j>      u~
E A V"   "N  Fd22  /           g 
3          N   ~~~~~~~f2~~~~S~    NIG   ERI A
I ANA lS
A -k  /1-p-i~~~~~
lAl~~~~~~~~~               r           05
0                          /~~~~~
T4 0     G       0                            R'AAAAt-'-b
Ok                                / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P,cp1 R7"d
N   I"""          N""'         C e~~~~~~~~~~~~"""'    K"""~R.U-y
NATT!5004 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~f            ,ri(d
"-'9  r   -"    5,",,' 44~~~~~~~~~~~.-a,
N                "oesr      9-'   "'c~~~~~~"D
EAAs,L'             0~~~~21  L"FT-ItKr          4. 
C'  "'5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"        2"~~~~1I1  1  ~   0 4  C   '
I       "o-'                 d~'  "pN"A
2-                      



I
I
I



