Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SECOND NULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2988-UNI)
DECEMBER 27, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =   Naira
US$1.00     =     4.30 Naira (at appraisal)
US$1.00     =     22.00 Naira (at mid-term review)
US$1.00     =     82.00 Naira (at completion)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP         -     Agricultural Development Project
ADPEC       -     Agricultural Development Project Executive Council
APMEU       -     Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
ARMTI       -     Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
BCFA        -     Bauchi Cooperative Financing Agency
CFA         -     Cooperative Financing Agency
ERR         -     Economic Rate of Return
FACU        -     Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FGN         -     Federal Government of Nigeria
FMANR       -     Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
FMiF        -      Federal Ministry of Finance
FUA         -     Fadama Users Association
ICR         -     Implementation Completion Report
LGC         -      Local Government Council
MANR        -      Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MSADP       -     Multi-State Agricultural Development Project
NATSP       -     National Agricultural Technology Support Project
NFDP        -      National Fadama Development Project
OFAR        -      On-Farm Adaptive Research
PCC         -      Projects Coordination Committee
PME         -     Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
SPAT        -      Small Plot Adoption Technique
UAES        -     Unified Agricultural Extension Services
VEA         -      Village Extension Agent



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page
Preface
Evaluation Summary .................................                                           i
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
Introduction .................................1
Project Objectives .................................1
Achievement of Objectives .................................2
Factors Affecting Project .................................6
Project Sustainability .................................7
Bank Performance .................................7
Borrower Performance .................................7
Assessment of Outcome .................................8
Future Operations .................................8
Key Lessons Learned .................................8
Part H: Statistical Annexes
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .12
Table 3: Project Timetable .13
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual .13
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .14
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .18
Table 8A:  Project Costs ............................                                      19
Table 8B:  Project Financing ............................                                  19
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits ............                     ................ 20
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants .........................                            21
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................ 24
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ............................................... 24
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions .................................................. 25
Part III: Sector-Specific Data
Table 1:    Achievements of the ADPs in Agricultural and
Commercial Services              ................................................... 26
Table 2:    Achievements of the ADPs in Infrastructure and Training .... 27
Appendices
Appendix A:             Mission's Aide-memoire
Appendix B.             Operational Plans of the ADPs
This docu ment has a resticted distnibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMIPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SECOND MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[LOAN 2988 - UNlI
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Multi-State
Agricultural Development Project (MSADP I), for which Loan 2988-UNI in the amount
of US$85.2 million equivalent was approved on August 25, 1988 and made effective on
November 16, 1989.
2.    The Loan was closed on June 30, 1995, two years beyond the original closing date
of June 30, 1993 and was fully disbursed on October 31, 1995 after cancellation of US$
7.5 million in January 1993.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Mr. Samuel Eremie (AF4NG), and reviewed by Messrs.
M. Rambocus (AF4NG), R. Polson and Surjit Singh (AF4AE), Mrs. Cynthia Cook,
Division Chief (AF4AE), and Mr. Franz Kaps, Operations Advisor (AF4DR).
4.    Preparation of this ICR was begun during the joint Bank/Borrower final
supervision and completion mission undertaken from May 7 to June 14, 1995. It is based
on material in the project file, field visits to all the project units, and discussions with
government officials and project beneficiaries. The Borrower's staff from the Federal
Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) and the Agricultural Projects Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit (APMEU) participated in the completion mission. The views of state
level officials and those of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(FMANR) and the Federal Ministry of Finance have been reflected in the aide-memoire
(Appendix A). A draft ICR was provided to the Borrower for comments but to date no
comments have been received. Also, no completion report has been received from the
Borrower.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SECOND MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[Loan 2988 - UNI]
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    At the time of appraisal of the Second Multi-State Agricultural Development
Project (MSADP II) in October 1987, the Bank had committed  loans totaling
US$1,018.5 million for 15 Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs) in Nigeria, 7 of
which had been completed. The performance audit reports of these projects by the Bank's
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) noted an increase in agricultural production in
the project areas, but criticized the complex project design and the inappropriate technical
packages for the agricultural component.' Other lessons learnt from the completed
projects included: (i) the need to ensure closer research-extension linkages; (ii) unification
of the extension services; (iii) private sector involvement in input distribution and
maintenance of rural infrastructure; and (iv) the need to develop sustainable agricultural
institutions at the state level. This experience and the on-going sector dialogue with the
Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) influenced the design of the MSADP II.
Project Objectives
2.    The main objectives of the project were to: (i) strengthen the agricultural services
in the ADPs, in order to raise agricultural production and incomes of an estimated 1.1
million farm families; (ii) improve the coverage and maintenance of supporting rural
infrastructure, especially the rehabilitation of 925 km of rural roads and the provision of
975 potable water points; (iii) strengthen supporting commercial services, through
privatization of input distribution and technical assistance and operational support to the
cooperative financing agencies (CFAs); (iv) strengthen the management and technical staff
capabilities of the ADPs; (v) strengthen the capacity for policy formulation, planning, and
expenditure programming in the state Ministries of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(MANRs); (vi) strengthen the Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
(ARMTI)'s curriculum, outreach and revenue base; and (vii) strengthen the Federal
Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU)'s capacity to provide preparation and
implementation assistance to the ADPs.  The project objectives were realistic and
consistent with Nigeria's priorities in smallholder agricultural development at the time.
The objectives were also relevant for the Bank's Sector Assistance Strategy which aimed
at strengthening agricultural support services, sector planning capacity and private sector
1 Report No. 3975-UNI of June 16, 1982 for Gusau, Funtua, and Gombe and Report No. 5972-UNI of
December 16, 1985 for Lafia and Ayangba ADPs.



- ii -
involvement in the provision and maintenance of agricultural inputs and rural
infrastructure [paras. 2, 3].
3.    Covenants.  The main covenants stipulated in the Loan Agreement were: (i)
advance quarterly payments of counterpart funds into the Project Account by the
Borrower and the participating states; (ii) maintenance of institutional arrangements for
project implementation and policy guidance; (iii) review of agricultural institutions in each
state; (iv) increase of internally generated revenue by ARMTI; and (v) reorganization of
the extension services. Most of the covenants were complied with fully except for
counterpart funding where the amounts were below the appraisal targets and often
released late [para. 4, Table 10].
4.    Project Costs. Financing and Timetable. Total project cost was estimated at
US$125.0 million at appraisal, with Bank financing of US$85.2 Million accounting for 68
percent. As of June 30, 1995, actual project cost was about US$91.1 million and Bank's
share (US$74.7 million) had gone up to about 82 percent, mainly because of poor
counterpart funding and the depreciation of the Naira; from Naira 4.3 to the dollar in
1988, to Naira 82.0 in 1995. A total of US$ 7.5 rnillion was canceled after the project's
Mid-Term Review in January 1993. The project was implemented in six years as
compared with the four years estimated at appraisal [para. 16].
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Achievement of Objectives. The project substantially achieved its objectives of
strengthening the state-level Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs) and their
supporting federal institutions. Extension services were unified under the ADPs for cost
effectiveness and 84 percent of the 1.1 million farm families in the project area were
reached.  The adaptive research component developed appropriate technologies for
farmers, especially on Downy Mildew resistant maize and soyabean utilization.
Outgrowers produced 1,973 tons of grain seed against the project target of 3,690 tons. In
rural infrastructure, 536 km of roads and 443 potable water points were constructed
versus the targets of 925 km and 975 water points, respectively. The Commercial
Services of the ADPs made production inputs more readily available to farmers but failed
to involve the private sector in input distribution due to government control of fertilizer
procurement and distribution. The Bauchi Cooperative Financing Agency (BCFA)
provided credit to the cooperative societies to the tune of Naira 32.1 million, as compared
with a target of Naira 45.0 million.
6.    To strengthen their management and technical capabilities, project staff attended
several short training courses, and enrollment over 6 years was almost 10,000 trainees.
This excluded the regular monthly and fortnightly training of the project extension staff.
The MANRs received some equipment and training support to enhance their sector
planning capacity. ARMTI established a machinery for the regular review of its courses
and increased its internally generated revenue to about 21 percent of operating cost as
compared with the 20 percent specified at appraisal. FACU provided quality support to
the ADPs both at start-up and during implementation. Overall, the structures for effective



- iii -
technology development and dissemination have been put in place and a corp of staff
trained for the management of agricultural projects [paras. 5 to 1 1].
7.    Factors Affecting Implementation.  The key factors which affected project
implementation were: (i) delays in getting the project effective; (ii) slow establishment of
the management units after the creation of new states midway through the project; (iii)
poor counterpart funding; (iv) irregular meetings of project executive councils; (v)
frequent changes in project management staff, (vi) management inexperience in Bank
procedures; (vii) low beneficiary participation; and (viii) political crises, fuel shortages and
natural disasters. On the positive side, the Federal Government was consistent in its
support of the ADP system as an effective arrangement for smallholder agricultural
development. Through its apex agencies, it provided useful technical implementation
support to the ADPs [paras. 17 to 19].
8.    Bank Performance.  The performance of the Bank was satisfactory in project
appraisal and supervision. The appraisal mission took into consideration the country's
agricultural development priorities, the economic environment as well as the Bank's sector
strategy. The intensity of supervision increased from 1994 when most of the responsibility
was transferred to the Resident Mission [para. 21].
9.    Borrower Performance. The Borrower's performance was generally satisfactory.
One of its agencies, FACU, prepared the project and, along with the Agricultural Projects
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (APMEU) and ARMTI, provided implementation
support to the ADPs and participated in Bank supervision missions. Most of the Loan
covenants were complied with, with one major exception being counterpart funding which
was inadequate and often late [para. 22].
10.   Project Sustainability. The structures established for technology development and
dissemination, the training of staff for agricultural development, the provision of state
counterpart funds through federal deductions at source from state statutory revenue
allocations, the satisfactory project economic rate of return (ERR), and the operational
plans prepared by each participating state suggest that some key project benefits have a
high probability of being sustained. There is, however, a need for improved sector policies
to increase private sector participation in project activities. Government has to resolve the
issue of private sector participation in fertilizer distribution and harmonize the cost
recovery policies for government agencies operating in the rural areas with those of the
ADPs in terms of beneficiary contributions [para. 20].
11.   Project Outcome. Overall, the outcome of the project is satisfactory, considering
the increase in agricultural production in the project states and the likely sustainability of
the project benefits. The re-estimated ERR of 23.48 percent reflects the significant
increases in output of the major crops, particularly foodgrains, cassava and groundnuts.
The ERR compares favorably with the 17 percent and 14.9 percent, respectively,
estimated at appraisal and the mid-term review (MTR). The project has put in place
institutional arrangements and physical facilities that can support future development
activities [para. 23].



- iv -
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12.   Key Findings of Implementation Experience. The key findings of implementation
experience are that: weak sector and economy-wide policies and strategies adversely
affect the attainment of agricultural project objectives, and in particular the participation of
the private sector, and this should be addressed as a condition for further support for
agricultural development; and there is scope for the development of viable beneficiary-
operated organizations with minimal government involvement in their management [paras.
8 to 15].
13.   Future Operations.  The project units have prepared operational plans with
adequate technical and institutional proposals. However, beyond government promises of
commitment to agricultural development, the counterpart funding problem is inadequately
resolved. The continued technical and budgetary support from the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture to the ADPs, in particular, will be important to their sustainability. Sector
policy improvements such as privatization of fertilizer distribution would need to be made
to enhance the likelihood of sustainability of project benefits.  Subject to continued
Government commitment and resolving of the policy issues, the Bank Group would
continue to support the ADP structure [paras. 24-25].
14.   Key Lessons for Future Projects. For future related projects, there is a need to:
(i) ensure that appropriate sectoral and macro policies are, or will be, in place to support
project implementation before a loan is approved; (ii) develop the skills of ADP staff for
mobilizing communities and individuals for greater participation in project activities and
for dealing with other stakeholders; (iii) strengthen procurement and disbursement
monitoring by project management; and (iv) monitor the effectiveness of the project
executive councils during supervision missions as this has serious implications for
management stability and achievement of project objectives [paras. 26 to 28].



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SECOND MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[LOAN 2988 - UNI]
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    By October 1987 when the Second Multi-State Agricultural Development Project
(MSADP II) was being appraised for a loan of US$85.2 million, the Federal Government
of Nigeria had had about 12 years of experience in the implementation of Bank-assisted
Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs), and the Bank had committed loans totaling
US$1,018.5 million for 15 ADPs, 7 of which had been completed (Table 2). The
preceding projects were judged by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
to have raised agricultural production in the affected areas, but were too complex in
design and did not adequately provide for appropriate technologies for farmers.2 Some of
the other lessons learned from the completed projects were: (i) the need to ensure closer
research-extension linkages; (ii) the unification of the extension services for a more cost-
effective delivery of services; (iii) a greater involvement of the private sector in input
distribution and in the maintenance of rural infrastructure; and (iv) the need to have
sustainable agricultural institutions at the state level. The MSADP II, which was designed
with these considerations in mind, was approved on August 25, 1988 and was expected to
close on June 30, 1993. It actually closed two years later on June 30, 1995, and the loan
was fully disbursed by October 31, 1995.
Project Objectives
2.    The main objectives of the MSADP II as stated in the SAR were to:
(i) strengthen the agricultural services for the benefit of about 1.1 million farm
families, through the establishment of a unified extension service, intensified
adaptive research, contract seed production, soil erosion control, and the
privatization of veterinary services;
(ii) improve the coverage and maintenance of supporting rural infrastructures,
through increased involvement of private contractors in rural road rehabilitation
(925 km) and maintenance, beneficiaries in the construction and maintenance of
potable water supplies, and water users associations in the installation and
maintenance of small-scale irrigation;
2 Report No. 3975-UNI of June 16, 1982 for Gusau, Funtua, and Gombe and Report No. 5972-UNI of
December 16, 1985 for Lafia and Ayangba ADPs.



(iii) strengthen supporting commercial services, through the privatization of input
distribution and technical assistance and operational support to the Cooperative
Financing Agencies (CFAs);
(iv) strengthen the management and technical staff capabilities of the'ADPs;
(v) strengthen the capacity for policy formulation, planning, and expenditure
programming in the state Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(MANRs);
(vi) strengthen the Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
(ARMTI)'s curriculum, outreach and revenue base; and
(vii) strengthen the Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU)'s capacity to
provide preparation and implementation assistance to the ADPs.
3.    The project objectives were clear and realistic and reflected Nigeria's 12 years
experience of using the ADPs as a means of achieving agricultural development through
smallholders. The objectives were also relevant for the Bank Sector Assistance Strategy
which aimed, among others, to strengthen agricultural support services, the agricultural
marketing and price systems and the capacity for sector planning, policy formulation and
expenditure programming. The Mid-Term Review (MTR) of 1993 maintained the project
objectives but revised some of the physical targets and recommended a re-allocation of the
balance of the Loan among the components, including the cancellation of US$ 7.5 million
as being surplus to project needs.
4.    Covenants to Achieve Project Objectives. Apart from the general covenants
relating to work plans, budgets and audits, the Loan Agreement provided for: (i) advance
quarterly payments of counterpart funds into the Project Account by the Borrower and the
participating states; (ii) maintenance of institutional arrangements, and especially, a
Projects Coordination Committee (PCC) at the federal level; (iii) a review of agricultural
institutions in each state; (iv) an increase of internally generated revenue by ARMTI; and
(v) reorganization of the extension services in each state, with the assistance of FACU.
All the covenants, except those related to counterpart funding and the agricultural
institutions review were satisfactorily complied with. Counterpart funding was generally
inadequate and also released late. Only two of the states concluded the institutional
review before loan closing. The status of the legal covenants is summarized in Table 10.
Achievement of Objectives
5.    The project achieved, substantially, its major objectives (see tables in Part m for
details). Extension was unified in all the ADPs, and 84 percent (931,709 out of the
1,115,415 obtained from village listing surveys) of the farm families were reached. The
appraisal estimate of farm families was 1,100,000. To disseminate improved technology
to the farmers, a total of 263,600 small plot adoption technique (SPAT) demonstrations
were conducted out of a target of 366,300. About 121,400 farmers field days were also
held against a target of 187,400. Adamawa ADP, which had introduced staff performance
incentives, had accounted for 55 percent of the SPATs and 72 percent of extension field



-3 -
days. Women farmers were integrated into the mainstream of the extension services and
1,724 women groups were formed versus a target of 2,017. Many of these groups were
registered as cooperatives to enhance their ability to secure inputs and credit.
6.    The adaptive research unit, in collaboration with the research institutes, carried out
diagnostic surveys of the fanning systems in each state and conducted 2,478 on-farm
adaptive research (OFAR) trials (out of a target of 3,556), leading to the development of
useful technologies e.g., Downy Mildew resistant maize varieties, high-yielding rice
varieties and soyabean utilization. Adamawa ADP, which was adequately staffed
throughout the project period, undertook 31 percent of the total number of OFAR trials
conducted under MSADP II. Contract outgrowers produced 53 percent (1,973 out of
3,690 tons) of grain seeds. Only 24 percent of the total seed produced by the outgrowers,
however, was bought back by the ADPs for distribution because of their inability to
maintain the revolving funds for this purpose. At the same time, Kwara and Niger ADPs,
which established effective linkages with the National Seed Service (NSS) for seed
production and processing, performed well by buying back 100 percent and 73 percent,
respectively. The technologies developed were essential in achieving higher output of the
major crops such as rice, maize and vegetables, the latter traded profitably in the major
urban centers.
7.    Achievement in improved soil conservation was poor mainly because the ADPs
could not sell their tree seedlings to farmers given that free seedlings were being provided
by other government nurseries. Efforts to privatize veterinary services did not also
succeed because the MANRs continued to subsidize services and drugs and vaccines. As
a result, the drug revolving funds did not succeed except in Adamawa ADP where an in-
house revolving fund was supported by a good market analysis and incentives to staff for
the supervision of the scheme.
8.    Altogether, a total of 536 km of rural roads were rehabilitated out of the target of
925 km, largely through private contractors. Niger ADP exceeded its road rehabilitation
target of 340 km by 82 km because it had strong state government support for the
program and used an experienced contractor; Kogi ADP had an 86 percent completion
rate. All other states performed poorly. Community involvement in road maintenance was
very low mainly because project staff lacked the skills for community mobilization. Niger
ADP is now experimenting with the involvement of road transport unions in road
maintenance. With respect to water supply, 443 potable water points were provided out
of the target of 975. Kwara ADP alone had 89 percent of these water points, having
constructed 195 boreholes and 200 wells. Community participation was well achieved in
the provision and maintenance of water points and each community paid in advance 10
percent of the estimated cost of the well in addition to providing maintenance services.
The ADPs also performed poorly in small-scale irrigation development, constructing only
605 tubewells compared with a project target of 4791 tubewells. The Commercial
Services of the ADPs made inputs readily available to farmers but privatization of input
distribution was not achieved as the distribution of fertilizer, the major input, remained
under government control. Bauchi CFA expanded its rural credit operations, providing
credit to the tune of Naira 32.1 million as compared with a target of Naira 45.0 million.



- 4 -
Bauchi CFA remained one of the few farmer organizations in the country that had little
interference from the government.
9.    The project strengthened management and technical staff capabilities through short
training courses that reached an estimated 10,000 participants during the 6 years of the
project, exclusive of the regular monthly and fortnightly training of extension staff. The
training was based on skill gap analyses; 98 percent of training was provided locally. To
strengthen planning and budgeting capacities, the MANRs were assisted with computers,
office equipment, vehicles and training support although the amounts of these were below
appraisal estimates. After initial delays in finalizing the terms of reference, sector-wide
institutional reviews were conducted only in Kwara and Niger states. Only Kwara State
hired a consultant for two years to advise the MANRs on policy and strategic planning.
10.   ARMTI has established a machinery for the annual review of its curriculum as well
as a Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (PME) unit for post-course evaluation.
Between 1990 and 1994, 48 courses were dropped while 33 new courses were introduced
based on the level of patronage, training needs analyses, demand by clients and changes in
the agricultural sector. The results so far indicate that 90 percent of course attendees
consider the courses relevant to their jobs. From 1990 to 1994, ARMTI provided training
to 4,696 personnel working in the agricultural sector, 1,102 of whom were from MSADP
H states. The distance learning program did not start before the end of the project
although a study of the modalities for establishing regional centers had been concluded,
training equipment procured and staff to man the centers identified. Two out of the four
centers are expected to take off in latel995. Following an aggressive marketing strategy,
ARMTI's internally generated revenue averaged 21 percent of its operating costs, as
compared with the target of 20 percent.
11.   The proceeds of the Loan assisted FACU to staff and equip itself to provide
technical implementation support to the ADPs. FACU undertook preparation of MSADP
II on behalf of the Borrower and participated in its appraisal, supervision and completion
missions. It mounted project facilitation teams to assist the start-up of the project in each
state and provided implementation support to the ADPs in various programs. FACU was
particularly supportive in linking the ADPs with the research institutes for OFAR, in
ensuring the unification of the extension services, in preparing technical manuals and
specifications for rural infrastructure as well as certifying civil works done, and in studies
and works for fadama development. After the bifurcation of the project states, FACU also
assisted the affected ADPs in overcoming the staffing and management problems arising as
a result of the bifurcation. FACU, however, only completed one out of the four studies it
was to have done under the project, for reasons given in paragraph 14.
12.   Technical Assistance. Technical assistance under the project was for: (i) ARMTI
to consolidate and improve its training program, using 44 man-months of international and
103 man-months of local consultants; (ii) the ADPs, with the assistance of FACU, to
recruit and train local government council (LGC) engineering staff for rural road
maintenance, based on need and the LGC meeting guidelines to be developed by FACU;
and (iii) strengthening sector planning by the state MANRs, including the recruitment of a
Planning Adviser for four years in each of the three original project states. ARMTI fully



- 5 -
utilized its technical assistance for short-term consultants to draw up a Strategic Plan in
1991 and 1992 and to recruit an institutional adviser for one year. ARMTI's Strategic
Plan stimulated the management to adopt most of the aggressive marketing strategies vital
for its existence. The ADPs could not build the LGC engineering staff capacity because of
limited staff and rapid tumover of chief executives in the LGCs. For technical assistance
to the MANRs, only Kwara ADP recruited a Planning Adviser for two years. The other
states faced initial problems of finalizing the terms of reference and towards the close of
the Loan, had limited funds to support them. The quality of the technical assistance was
therefore marginally satisfactory.
13.   Studies.  The project provided for the following studies by the ADPs: (i)
hydrological potential of rivers and shallow aquifers for small-scale irrigation
development; (ii) tsetse fly infestation and level of trypanosomiasis challenge; (iii) review
of agricultural institutions; (iv) financial, operating and staff development plans for viable
CFAs; and (v) project impact evaluation. The aquifer studies were concluded in three out
of the five states, that for Adamawa and Taraba states were stalled by disagreements
between the consultants and the ADPs over payments. Three out of the five states also
completed the surveys over the four seasons required for the trypanosomiases study. The
review of agricultural institutions was done only in two states [para. 9] and the CFA
study, in Niger State only. Impact studies were concluded in three out of the five states.
The quality of the concluded studies was high and the information guided management
decisions in project implementation.
14.   FACU was expected to undertake studies on: (i) expanding the role of rural micro-
enterprises and women-in-agriculture; (ii) economics of tractor use and possibilities of
introducing small horsepower tractors; (iii) comparison of force account and private
contractors in costs of road works; and (iv) development of a wage incentive scheme for
ADP staff. Only the study on wage incentives was completed and its recommendations
are still being studied by the government for possible implementation. The study on force
account versus contract was commenced but suspended because there were questions on
the competence of the contractors. The other studies were not done mainly because
FACU staff had to be redeployed to urgent implementation support assignments, e.g., the
restructuring of the project arising from two newly created states from within the original
three. Table 7 presents the details of the status of the studies.
15.   Overall, the physical and institutional development objectives were satisfactorily
achieved, while there was less success with the improvement of sectoral policy and
counterpart funding of the project. Government control of fertilizer procurement and
distribution and conflicting public sector interventions in agro-forestry and veterinary
services stifled private sector participation in these areas.
16.   Project Costs. Financing and Timetable. Project costs as at June 30, 1995 was
estimated as US$91.1 million (Naira 2,597.1 million) compared with US$125.0 million
(Naira 640.7 million) at appraisal. The exchange rate of the Naira for the US dollar
depreciated from Naira 4.30 at appraisal, to Naira 8.03 in 1990 and Naira 82.00 in 1995.
Bank share of project costs rose to 82 percent, compared with 68 percent at appraisal,
mainly because of poor counterpart funding and the depreciation of the Naira. Due to



- 6 -
delays in achieving loan effectiveness, and in the division of assets and establishment of
management units when new states were created, the project was implemented in six years
instead of the four years estimated at appraisal. In January 1993, a total of US$ 7.5 million
was canceled after the Mid-Term Review as surplus to the needs of the project. The
project fully disbursed by October 31, 1995.
Factors Affecting the Project
17.   The major factors that negatively affected the project were: (i) delays in getting
the project effective; (ii) poor counterpart funding; (iii) frequent changes in project
management and irregular meetings of the project executive councils; (iv) creation of new
states; (v) outside interference in management; (vi) management ineffectiveness; (vii) low
beneficiary participation; (viii) natural disasters; and (ix) political crises and fuel shortages.
Factor (viii) was not subject to government control. Factors (i) to (v) and (ix) were
subject to government control while (vi) and (vii) were subject to the control of the
implementing agencies. The floods during the 1994 rainy season which caused extensive
damage to crops, livestock and infrastructure were obviously beyond government control.
18.   The Loan which was approved on August 25,1988 did not become effective until
November 1989 because of delays in meeting the effectiveness conditions.  The
implementation of most components commenced in 1990. The bifurcation of states in
1991, midway into the project, created problems of relocation, sharing of assets,
constitution of new management teams and staffing. Implementation delays increased the
number of years from loan signing to physical completion of the project from four to six
years. Counterpart funding of the project by the federal and state governments was
generally unsatisfactory. FGN funding was usually lower than anticipated, but released
regularly. Kwara, Taraba and Adamawa ADPs were very poorly funded by their state
governments.  Kwara State contribution, for example, was about US$0.9 million
compared with the expected US$4.9 million. Associated with the frequent changes in
political administrators at the state level, there were frequent changes of senior
management staff. Adamawa ADP had four program managers in five years. Only in
Kwara ADP did the program manager remain unchanged during the entire project period.
The instability of management led to slow implementation performance. Meetings of the
project executive councils were very irregular and delayed policy and procurement
decisions. This lack of guidance to project management encouraged direct interference in
management by senior state government officials, especially in staffing, procurement and
the utilization of vehicles and equipment.
19.   Management in most of the project units was particularly ineffective in the
monitoring of procurements and disbursements, largely because of the lack of experienced
staff. Procurement documentation often required tedious scrutiny by Bank staff because
of frequent non-compliance with guidelines. The poor procurement and disbursement
monitoring led to the termination of some contracts that could not be completed by the
Loan closing date.  Another factor subject to management control is beneficiary
participation in such project activities and the low level of involvement of communities
and the private sector. The maintenance of rural roads and input distribution is indicative



- 7 -
of both lack of commitment and skills. In extension and adaptive research, beneficiary
participation has been satisfactory.
Sustainability
20.   The project strengthened the structures for the delivery of critical services to
smallholder farmers in the project states and raised agricultural production. Research-
extension linkages were improved to the mutual benefit of both the providers and the
farmers. The human resources development component produced skilled manpower for a
more effective management of agricultural interventions. Beneficiary participation has
increased in extension, adaptive research and the provision and maintenance of water
points. Financial institutions have developed confidence in the ability of Bauchi CFA to
on-lend to the cooperative societies because of the solid credit reputation it has
established. Bauchi ADP and FACU are already benefiting from follow-on projects while
Kwara, Kogi, Taraba and Adamawa ADPs have been earmarked to benefit from the
National Agricultural Technology Support Project (NATSP) and the National Fadama
Development Project (NFDP) facilities. ARMTI has attained a satisfactory level of
internally-generated revenue and has put in place the relevant infrastructure to sustain an
expanded training program. The FGN continues to stress its support for the ADP
arrangement as an effective way of developing the smalUholder sector of Nigerian
agriculture, and provides implementation assistance to the ADPs through its technical
units, such as FACU, APMEU and ARMTI. All these elements point to a likely
sustainability of the project benefits. Also the state governments are expected to keep the
projects running through their normal budgetary allocations.
Bank Performance
21.   Bank performance was satisfactory in project appraisal and supervision. The pre-
appraisal of the project coincided with the discussion of the Bank's "Nigeria Agricultural
Sector Review" in June 1987. The Bank appraisal mission in October 1987 considered
the government's agricultural development priorities, the changing economic conditions in
the country as well as the Bank's country strategy.  Some of the sustainability
considerations introduced into the project include unified extension, greater involvement
of the private sector and communities in project activities and the strengthening of the
capacity of the MANRs for policy formulation, planning and expenditure programming.
During the MTR, project targets were revised in line with implementation experience.
Bank frequency of supervision increased with the greater involvement of the Resident
Mission staff from 1994. Some of the officials of the MANRs however considered Bank
procurement guidelines too cumbersome for speedy project implementation.
Borrower Performance
22.   The project was prepared by FACU with the active involvement of the state
governments, based on its experience in the implementation of earlier ADPs.  The
preparation adequately covered government's priorities in agricultural development. FGN
demonstrated its commitment to the project through the regular release of counterpart
funds, although the amounts fell short of SAR targets. Government did not clarify its stand



- 8 -
on fertilizer subsidy, and especially the involvement of the private sector in fertilizer
procurement and distribution. The performance of the federal agencies, FACU and
APMEU, was satisfactory. Only Adamawa and Taraba ADPs complained of low coverage
by the agencies, a situation that may not be unconnected with the logistics constraints of
reaching these states. Most of the Loan covenants were complied with by the states,
except the timely release of adequate counterpart funds, and in some states, interference
with the management of the project [Table 10]. On the whole, Borrower performance
was satisfactory.
Assessment of Outcome
23.   Overall, the outcome of the project is satisfactory. The major objective of the
project, strengthen the agricultural institutions in order to increase agricultural production,
was largely achieved. The re-estimated project ERR of 23.48 percent reflects a positive
result compared to the estimated 17 percent at appraisal and 15 percent at mid-term. The
various measures indicated in paragraph 20 also suggest likely sustainability of the project
benefits. The macro-economic environment, however, needs to be more stable and
supportive of maximizing the private sector's contribution to the development effort.
Future Operations
24.   The operational plans prepared by the project units have adequate technical and
institutional arrangements. The financial and commercial provisions are, however, largely
dependent on the macro-economic policy stance at the federal level and government
commitment to the ADP system at the state level. While the FGN continues to stress its
commitment to the ADP system as the major strategy for agricultural development
through smallholder farmers, some senior state government officials see the system only in
the context of a particular Bank loan package. In particular, the success of the proposal
for commercial services will be very dependent on how the policy issues of input subsidy
and privatization are resolved. The key performance indicators during the operational
phase will remain: (i) achievement of physical targets; and (ii) degree of involvement of
the private sector, both in terms of costs and physical quantities [Table 6]. On the side of
the Bank Group, the usefulness of the administrative infrastructure which the ADPs
represent is well recognized. Several projects that would further strengthen the ADPs or
use them as implementation agencies are in the pipeline. They include projects on
agricultural extension and adaptive research, marketing and rural infrastructure and small-
scale irrigation.
Key Lessons Learned
25.   The major lessons learned during project implementation are significant for the
implementing agencies, the government and the Bank. For the implementing agencies
these are: (i) the performance of the unified agricultural extension services (UAES) is
highly dependent on the availability of appropriate technology as well as the effective
supervision of field level activities.  Not many appropriate livestock and fisheries
technologies were available for the UAES and this was reflected in the low performance of
these subsectors at the field level. FACU has recently organized seminars to facilitate



technology adaptation in these subsectors and the research institutions are being
strengthened under another Bank loan to respond to these needs. FACU has also been
organizing a number of orientation courses for extension supervisors in order to improve
their effectiveness; (ii) community participation and farmer empowerment are crucial for
the sustainability of the project benefits.
26.   The level of community participation appears to be related to the extent of
involvement of the community at the project design and implementation stages, and the
community's perception of the directness of the benefits. Communities have been more
willing to contribute in kind and in cash for rural water supply where their participation
had been outlined at the design stage and the benefits appear more direct, than to the
maintenance of rural roads constructed by the project. Staff of the implementing units
often lack skills for community mobilization and need to be trained in this area for future
projects. The success of the Bauchi CFA demonstrates that farmer organizations can be
effective when there is minimal interference from the government; and (iii) lack of
management skills in key areas such as procurement and disbursement, finance, monitoring
and evaluation and communication can hinder smooth implementation. For procurement,
some contracts have to be terminated because they could not be completed by the closing
date. This calls for the strengthening of the procurement and disbursement planning and
monitoring systems of the projects and for Bank supervision missions paying closer
attention to this aspect. The poor communication skills of some project managers have
caused unproductive tension between the ADPs and the parent MANR. Apart from
making full use of the established executive council subcommittees, most project
managers need to develop better communication and public relations management skills.
27.   For the government, the key lessons are: (i) adequate policy support is required for
smooth project implementation and there should be minimal interference in the day- to-day
management of the project. The irregular meetings of the project executive councils not
only denied the projects the needed policy guidance, approvals and financial support, but
also permitted interference in the day-to-day management of the project by individual
senior government officials. This calls into question the present structure and membership
of ADPECs. The Bank and the Borrower should revisit this arrangement especially for
future operations. The FGN decision to apply appropriate sanctions to states where ADP
management instability is high may reduce the problem; and (ii) agreed priority projects
should be adequately funded by the Borrower in order to maximize the benefits of the
project for the intended beneficiaries.
28.   The key lesson for the Bank is that the delegation of supervision responsibility to
the Resident Mission improved the promptness of Bank response to implementation
problems and this clearly helped project implementation. This is particularly important for
a project such as the MSADP II with nine implementing units. In respect of procurement,
the Bank has to recognize that the lack of a professional cadre of procurement specialists
in the government together with the frequent changes in staff, will result in poor planning
and monitoring of this function and, therefore, closer Bank supervision especially from the
Resident Mission, will help reduce the bottlenecks which slow down procurement
processes and therefore, project implementation.



- 10-
PART H: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
(/)             (/)             (V)               (V)
Macro Policies                     E                E                E                 0
Sector Policies                     ]               E                0                I
Financial Objectives               E                0                E                E
Institutional Development          0                E                E                E
Physical Objectives                0                E                E                E
Poverty Reduction                  Q                0                                  E
Gender Issues                                       0               I:]
Other Social Objectives            E                E                E                 0
Environmental Objectives           E                0                E                 E
Public Sector Management            0               E                E                 E
Private Sector Development         E                E                0                 E
Other (specify)                    E                E                E                 E
B. Proiect Sustainabilitv          Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(/)                      (1)                       (W)



(Continued)
Hfipghlv
C. Bank Performance                    satisfactory         Satisfactorv               Deficient
Identification                     E                                                  El
Preparation Assistance              a                                                 Ea
Appraisal                                                                            Ea
Supervision                        E                                                 EC
Highlv
D. Borrower Performance                      satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                                 El              5
Implementation                                                              Ea
Covenant Compliance                          5                              [J
Operation (if applicable)                    a               5              5
Highlv                                            Highl
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory   Satisfactor   Unsatisfactorv    unsatisfactory
(E)             0/ 5/                              /



- 12 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan Title                      Purpose                      Approval        Status
Preceding Operations
1.   Ln. 1092-UNI, Funtua ADP        Integrated Rural Dev.             1975       Completed
2.    Ln. 1099-UNI, Gusau ADP                                          1975
3    Ln. 1164-UNI, Gombe ADP                                           1975
4'    Ln. 1454-UNI, Lafia ADP                                          1977
5    Ln. 1455-UNI, Ayangba ADP                                         1977
6.    Ln. 1667-UNI, Bida ADP                                            1979
7.   Ln. 1668-UNI, Ilorin ADP                                           1979
s    Ln. 1719-UNI, ARMTI              Agric./Mgt. Training              1979
9    Ln. 1838-UNI, Oyo North ADP      Integrated Rural Dev.             1980
10.   Ln. 1854-UNI, Ekiti-Akoko ADP                                    1980
11.   Ln. 1981-LUNI, Bauchi ADP                                        1981
12.   Ln. 1982-UNI, Kano ADP                                            1981
13.   Ln. 2029-LI ATAP                                                  1981
14.   Ln. 2185-UNI, Sokoto ADP                                          1982
1i.   Ln. 2436-UNI, Kaduna ADP                                          1984
16.   Ln. 2733-UNI, MSADP I                                             1986
Following Operations
1.    Ln. 2035-LNI, MSADP Im                                            1989       Ongoing
2.    Ln. 3183-UNI, Nat. Seed         Improved Seed Supply              1990
3    Ln. 2261-UNI, Nat. Agric.        Improved Applied Research         1991
Research
4    Ln. 3451-UNI, Nat. Fadama        Small Scale Irrigation            1992
5    Ln. 3483-UNI, Agric. Tech.       Extension/Adaptive Research       1992



- 13 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date Actual /
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned                Latest Estimate
Identification                                                   May 1986
Preparation                                                      October 1986
Pre-appraisal                        June 1987                   June 1987
Appraisal                            October 1987                October 1987
Negotiations                         March 1988                  March 1988
Board presentation                   June 29, 1988               August 25, 1988
Signing                              February 23, 1989           February 27, 1989
Effectiveness                        May 30, 1989                November 16, 1989
Mid-term review                      December 1990               February 1993
Project completion                   October 31, 1993            October 31, 1995
Loan closing                         June 30, 1993               June 30, 1995
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(USS million)
Bank Fiscal Year                  FY90       FY91       FY92       FY93       FY94       FY95
Appraisal estimate                17.4       18.8       25.6       23.4
Curnulative                       17.4       36.2       61.8       85.2(b)
Actual(a)                         2.7        12.9       8.8        14.4       24.3       11.6
Cumulative                        2.7        15.6       24.4       38.8       63.1       74.7
Actualas%ofestimate               15.5       43.1       39.5       45.5       74.1       87.7
Date of final disbursement: October 31, 1995
(a) Loan was extended beyond the original closing date of June 30, 1993 by two years.
(b) USS7.5million was canceled in January 1993.



- 14 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
L Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR                 Estimated                       Actual
1. Technical Agricultural
Services
(a) Unification of        Staff to have been deployed by    Staff deployment concluded in
extension               1989.                         1993.
(c) Adaptive research     One contract between ADP and   Each ADP signed a contract
contract                research institute.          with a research institute.
(c) Outgrower seed        Outgrowers to produce 3,690   Outgrowers produced 1,973 tons
production            tons of grain seed.           of grain seed.
(d) Veterinaxy services   Each ADP to procure a         Mobile services procured, drug
laboratory, mobile diagnostic    revolving fund successfully
services, operate drug revolving   operated and private
fuid, license private        veterinarians registered only in
veterinarians and conduct    one ADP. Trypanosomiasis
trypanosomiasis survey.       survey conducted.
2. Rural Infrastructure
(a) Road rehabilitation and   Rehabilitate 1,460 kin, periodic  Rehabilitation 536 km, periodic
maintenance           maintenance 780 km, recurrent   maintenance 662 kIn, recurrent
2,432 krn, routine 3,212 km.  3,237 km, routine 1,241 km.
Private contractors to do road  Rehabilitation done by private
rehabilitation, periodic and  contractors but periodic and
recurrent maintenance.       recurrent maintenance by force
account.
(b) Rural water supply and   Construct 400 wells and 575  240 wells and 203 boreholes
maintenance            boreholes. Each community to   constructed. Each community
contribute at least 10% of    contributed at least 10% and
capital cost, water users     WUAs were formed for
associations to be organized.  maintenance.
(c) Small scale irrigation  Completion of shallow aquifer    Aquifer study completed in three
studies, development of 13,200   out of five States, 605 tubewells
tubewells, construction of    constructed, diversion structures
diversion structures for      constructed for 644ha.
10,000ha.



- 15 -
Table 5: Continued
L Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR                 Estimated                      Actual
3. Commercial Aaricultural
Services
(a) Privatization of input  ADPs to limnit input operations   All ADPs continued with retail
distribution           to wholesale level and retail  activities and only one ADP
through private distributors.  appointed private distributors.
(b) Rural credit         A cooperative financing agency   None formed or successfully
to be reactivated in each State.   reactivated, except Bauchi CFA.
4. State MANRs
(a) Sector policy and   Appointment of Planning       Planning Adviser appointed
planning             Adviser and provision of      only in one State. Equipment
equipment.                   provided, but often inadequate.
(b) Institutional review  Each state to do            Review done by two out of five
institutional review.        states.
5. Agficultural and Rural
Management Trainin
Institute
(a) Consolidation of     Review existing courses.      Courses reviewed.
training
(b) Outreach program     Commence Distance Learning    Program did not commence.
Program.
(c) Improving ADP        Prepare training plans with   Plans prepared and ADP staff
performnance          ADPs.                        trained in this regard.
(d) Internal revenue     Internal revenue to cover 20% of Internal revenue covered 21% of
operating costs.             operating costs.



- 16 -
Table 5: Continued
L Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR                  Estimated                      Actual
6. Federal Agricultural
Coordinating Unit
(a) Studies               Conduct four studies.         Only one study completed.
(b) Implementation        Give start-up and             Support given at start-up and
assistance             implementation support to    during implementation.
ADPs.
IL Modified Indicators               Estimated                      Actual
1. Technical Agricultural
Services
(a) Small plot adoption  Establish 366,300 plots.      263,600 plots established.
technique
(b) On-farm adaptive     Establish 3,556 trials.       2,478 trials established.
research
2. Rural Infrastructure
(a) Irrigation           Construct 4791 tubewells.     605 tubewells constructed.
3. Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation
(a) Surveys               Conduct 46 core and 53 special   31 core and 40 special surveys
surveys.                     conducted.
(b) Impact study          Conduct one impact study in   Impact study done in 3 ADPs.
each ADP.



- 17 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(no indicators were specified in the SAR)
Modified Indicators for                           Estimated
Future Operation
1. Technical Agricultural
Services
(a) Unified extension              Extension agents to conduct annually a
total of 75,040 SPATs covering crop and
non-crop subsectors.
(b) Adaptive research              Extension agents to conduct annually 950
on-farm adaptive trials, including non-
crop subsectors.
(c) Seed production                Outgrowers to produce annually 600 tons
of certified grain seed.
(d) Veterinary services           All clinical veterinary services to be
handled by MANR
2. Rural Infrastructure
(a) Rural roads                   Rehabilitate annually 30 km of road by
private contractors through Ministry of
Works, and maintain annually 245 km of
road by userstbeneficiaries.
(b) Rural water supply            Water users associations to finance all
capital costs of new wells, and also
maintenance.
3. Commercial
Agricultural Services
(a) Input distribution             Procurement and distribution of inputs by
private sector, including farmer
organizations.
(b) Credit                         Farmer-controlled agencies to manage
credit.



- 18 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study          Purpose as Defined at              Status          Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
1. Hydrological       To provide information on    Completed in three  605 tubewells and 23
potential of rivers and   irrigation development   out of five states.   stream diversion
shallow aquifer for   potentials.                                      structures constructed.
small scale irrigation
2. Tsetse fly         To determine the limitations to  Completed in three  Risk associated with
infestation and level of  livestock development posed    out of five states.   livestock development
trypanosomaiasis      by tsetse fly infestation.                       recognized in techno-
challenge                                                             logy development.
3. Review of          To rationalize the role of   Completed in two    State governments yet
agricultural institutions  service institutions in each  out of five states.   to implement
state for sustainability.                       recommendations.
4. Cooperative        To produce financial,        Completed in one    Study completed
financing agency      operating and staff          out of four States.   towards end of Loan.
(CFA)                 development plaas for viable
CFA in each state.
5. Women-in-          To provide information for    Not done.          Not applicable.
agriculture           expanding role of rural micro-
enterprises.
6. Economics of       To determine the potentials for  Not done.       Not applicable.
tractor use           introducing small horsepower
tractors.
7. Comparison of force  To determine the proportion of  Commenced but  Not applicable.
account and private   resources to devote to each   suspended.
contractors in road   method, related to its
construction          effectiveness.
8. Wage incentive     To determine motivational     Completed 1994.    Recommendations not
scheme for ADP staff   schemes for ADP staff in line                   yet implemented.
with their responsibilities.
9. Project impact     To assess the performance of    Completed in three  Provided data for
the project.                 out of five states.    implementation
completion report.



- 19 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Item                  Appraisal Estimate .        Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)                       (USSM)
Local   Foreign              Local   Foreign
Costs    Costs    Total    Costs    Costs    Total
1. Project Management          3.0      2.3       5.3       1.6       1.9       3.5
2. Technical services          7.3       6.2      13.5      3.8       5.1       8.9
3. Infrastructure             11.4      29.0      40.4      6.0      23.9      29.9
4. Commercial services         5.4      12.8      18.2      2.8       10.5     13.3
5. State MANR                  4.4      18.2      22.6      2.3      15.1      17.4
6. ARMTI                       1.7       3.3      5.0       0.9       2.7       3.6
7. FACU                        1.2       1.3      2.5       0.7       1.0       1.7
8. Contingencies               5.4      12.1      17.5      2.8       10.0     12.8
Total                       39.8     85.2      125.0     20.9      70.2      91.1
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                 Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
(USSM)                       (USSM)(a)
Local    Foreign             Local   Foreign
Costs    Costs    Total      Costs   Costs         Total
IBRD                           0.0      85.2      85.2      4.5      70.2       74.7
Federal Government (b)         17.0      0.0      17.0      7.3       0.0       7.3
State Governments (b)          22.8      0.0      22.8      9.1      0.0        9.1
Total                          39.8     85.2      125.0    20.9      70.2       91.1
Note:  (a) Actual as at June 30, 1995. USS7.5 million was canceled in January 1993.
(b) Federal and State Government contributions are converted to US$ at the prevailing average
exchange rates of Naira 8.0 (1990), Naira 10.4 (1991), Naira 19.7 (1992), Naira 22.0 (1993 and
1994), and Naira 82.0 (1995).



- 20 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Naira million)
Year          Project Costs     Total Benefit      Net Benefit
1990             102.1             -11.5            -113.6
1991             113.0               6.1            -106.9
1992             153.3             100.7             -52.6
1993             429.4             158.4            -271.0
1994             372.1             394.5              22.4
1995             186.0             394.5             208.5
1996             186.0             394.5             208.5
1997             186.0             394.5             208.5
1998             186.0             394.5             208.5
1999             186.0             394.5             208.5
2000              186.0            394.5             208.5
2001              186.0            394.5             208.5
2002              186.0            394.5             208.5
2003              186.0            394.5             208.5
2004              186.0            394.5             208.5
2005              186.0            394.5             208.5
Note: Costs and benefits are only for the five ADPs.
Discount rate     = 0.12
NPV (million Naira)   = 441.8 Naira
ERR (per cent)    = 23.48



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original       Revised
Agree-               Covenant    Present   Fulfllment    Fulfillment
ment      Section    Type          Status    Date            Date           Descriptlon of Covenant                 Comments
Loan      3.01(e)    4             CP        01/89          01/89          Borrower to pay into Federal Project Account  Initial payments into Federal and State
2988                                                                       initial amounts equivalent to $200,000 for  Project Accounts made. Quarterly
ARMll, $100,000 for FACU, and into each    payments done regularly but often lower
State Project Account 25% of the Borrower's  than budgeted.
counterpart contribution to first year's costs,    1995 releases not made till mid June.
and thereafter in advance, its quarterly
counterpart fund contributions to the Project.
Borrower to continue to maintain PCC,
3.02      5             C          Continuous    Continuous    ARMTI, FACU, APMEU and the PFTs each    All agencies were maintained in
in a form and with functions and membership  satisfactory form. PCC meets and PFTs
satisfactory to the Bank.                  were organized for all the states.
Borrower shall cause to be maintained in
4.01(a)    1            C          01/89         01/89          accordance with sound accounting practices,    Records were maintained and examined by
(i) &                                                           records and accounts for Statements of     super- vision missions.
(iii)                                                           Expenditure, and enable Bank
representatives to examine such records.
Borrower to ensure that the records are
4.01(a)    1            NC         06/94         06/96          retained until at least one year after the Bank   Not yet due as Loan was extended by two
(ii)                                                            has received the audit report for the year in  years.
which the last withdrawal from the Loan was
made.
Covenant qpes:                                                                                                            Present Stats:
I. -  Acwount/audits                                      S. -  Indigeus peple                                         C  -  covasenic ulied with
2. -  Fmanial perfomancetrevenue genrafion from baeficiaries  9. -  Monitoring, review, and rporting                   CP =  complied with partially
3. -  Flow ad utilization of projed fundh                 10. -  Projed implementation notcovered by categofies 1-9    CD =  conplied with afer delay
4. -  Couterp  funding                                    11. -  Sectorl or ao.-eeoral budgdary or odh resowu allocadion  NC -  not complied with
5. -  Manageut asecs of the projed or exeozting agncy     12. -  Secorl or cous-ectoral poliy reguloryrutitionl action
6. -  Envircmena covenants                                13. -  Other
7. -  Involuntary reealment



Table 10                                         (Contlnued)
Original      Revised
Agree-               Covenant    Present   Fulfillment    Fulrillme   Description of
ment      Section    Type          Status    Date           nt Date    Covenant                                 Comments
Loan      4.01(b)    I            CP         06/90          06/90      Borrower to have the records and accounts    Some of the project units submit their audit
2988                                                                   for each fiscal year audited, by independent   reports late.
auditors acceptable to the Bank, and to
furnish the Bank with the audit report not
later than six months after the year.
Sch. 2C    6           CP          01/90         01/90       Commnercial Services of the States to furnish  FACU was not equipped to play the role,
FACU a list of agricultural chemicals to be    and ADPs made their own determinations
procured, for a determination as to whether   which were not fully satisfactory.
the products meet with the Bank's
guidelines on environmental safety.
Sch. 2E    5           CP          12/90          12/90      The states to review their respective    Done by two out of the five states. Review
principal agricultural public service   started in 1990 after delayed Loan
institutions to improve their efficiency.  effectiveness.
Sch. 6A    5            CD         12/88          12/90      ARMTI to review, along with FACU and     Staff and logistics problern delayed the
(I)                                                          extension staff of Project states, contents of
ARMTI courses.                          progr.
Sch. 6A    5           CD          06/89         06/89       ARMTI to furnish Bank work plan of       Fulfilled
(4)                                                         Distance Learning Program.
Sch. 6A    S           C           01/89         01/90       ARMTI to increase fees to cover 20% of   Farm production activities were stopped.
(5)                                                         operating cost.
Sch. 6A    5           C           06/89                     ARMTI and the Bank to review ARMTI's    Study commenced in 1994 but suspended.
(8)                                                          non-training activities.
Sch. 6B    5           NC          12/90          12/90      FACU to study costs and benefits of using
Sch) 6B                                                     force account as against private contractors
( )                                                          for road works.



Table 10                                          (Continued)
Original      Revised
Agree-               Covenant   Present   Fulfillment   Fulfillment
ment      Section    Type        Status     Date           Date          Descrption of Covenant                   Comments
Loan      Sch. 6B    9           CD          12/90         12/92         FACU to-.carry out mid-term review.
2988      (2)                                                                                                     Delay due to creation of new states.
Sch.6B     5           C          -              -             FACU to organize seminars for
,,)                                                            intttoa . .   ie,                        Done in Niger and Kwara states.
(3))                                                           institutional review.
Sch. 6B    5           C          06/89          06/89         FACU to employ additional engineering    Fulfilled
(4)                                                            staff for regional offices.
Sch. 6B    5           C          -                            FACU to assist the states to establish
(5)                                                            Project Facilitation Team (PFT).         Done In all states.
Sch. 6B    5           C          -                            FACU to assist states to reorganize      D     t
(6)                                                            extension services, review and certify rural   Done through impiementation assistance
roads work, prepare annual work plan, and   and supervision nissions
deal with manpower develop- ment
questions.
Sch. 6C    9           C          -                            APMEPU to provide support to the states    Done through training and support missions.
for monitoring and evaluation and carry  Completion review work has started.
out a review of the Project afler
completion.
Project   Sch. 3     2           C          06/89          06/89         Bauchi State to prepare and furnish to the    Fulfilled
2988      (6)                                                            Bank a financial operating and staff
(Bauchi)                                                       development plan for the CFA.
Sch.       I           C          06/89         06/89          Bauchi CFA to appoint external auditors  Fulfilled
3(7)                                                           with prior Bank approval.



- 24 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The Project complied with all applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of            Planned      Revised      Actual
Project Cycle
Preparation to
appraisal             40.0         40.0         39.4
Appraisal             35.0         35.0         33.6
Negotiations
through Board
approval               5.0          5.0         5.0
Supervision           82.0         90.0        103.0
Completion            15.0         15.0         15.0
Total                 177.0        185.0       196.0



- 25 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Number  Days  Specialized        Perforn ing
Status of          Month!     of      in   Staff Skills  Implemen-    Development  Type of
Project Cycle       Year   Persons  Field  Represented  tation Status  Objectives    Problems
Through appraisal    10/87     9      325     a,b,d,e,f
Appraisal through
Board approval    08/88      1       2         e                          .
Board approval
through
effectiveness     11/89      1        1        g            .
Supervision 1      02/90       4      84        b,e           1             1
Supervision 2      03/91       2      20        a,b           2             2       Appointment
of key staff
Supervision 3       10/91      3      32       a,b,d          2             2       Counterpart
funding
Supervision 4       06/92      3      48        a,b           2             2        ADPEC
meetings
Supervision 5       11/92      3      26        a,b           3             2       Seizure of
vehicles
Supervision 6      02/93       5      105      a,b,d          3             2       Counterpart
funding
Supervision 7       11/93      2       10       b,c           2             2       Changes in
management
Supervision 8       02/94      9       94      a,b,c,f        2        Satisfactory   Aquifer study
Supervision 9       10/94      2       30       b,d           2        Satisfactory   Counterpart
funding
Completion          05/95      2       54        b            2         Satisfactory
Note: Bank supervision and completion missions were joined by FACU/APMEU staff.
Key to Staff Skills
a = Financial Analyst
b = Agriculturist
c = Procurement Analyst
d = Extension Specialist
e = Economist
f = Cooperative/Credit Specialist
g = Operations Officer



- 26 -
PART m: SECTOR-SPECIFIC DATA
Table 1: Achievements of the ADPs in Agricultural and Commercial Services
Adamawa        Taraba (Z)      Kwara        Kogi (Z)        Niger        All ADPs
Item                   T      A      T      A      T       A      T      A      T      A      T       A
1. Extension
(a)Farm families        500    233       -   230    300    185        -   172    300   295   1100   1115
('000 No.)
(b) Village extension   250    250   230    215    170    126    172    103    296   244   1118    938
agents (No.)
(c) VEA/Farnn family   1000    934   1000   1070   1000   1468   1000   1670   1000   1209   1000   1189
(No)
(d) SPAT ('000 No.)      184    145     22     11    45      32     43     34     72     42    366    264
(e000 No )          139.5   87.3   39.4   27.9    2.2    1.6   3.3    3.0    3.0    1.7  187.4  121.4
(f) Radio/TV            405    302    208      57   520    399    228   220   1716   1246   3077   2224
progrms (No.)
(g) Women groups        320    184   864    890   200    195    174    193   459    262   2017   1724
formed (No.)
2. Technical Services
(a) Diagnostic surveys    15      2      7      3     12      7     11      7       6      4     51      23
(NO.)
(b) OFAR trials         1124    781    553    258   1058    695    129    119   692    625   3556   2478
(NO.)
(c) Grain seed pro-
duction (tons)       169     85    809    102      75     46     39      6     46      10   1138    249
- direct             1901   1298    178     25    720    182    139    135    753    333   3691   1973
- outgrowers
(d) Seedling production  4.0    1.5   2.6    0.4    0.6    0.6    0.2    0.1    1.1    0.6    9.3    3.4
(millions)()
3. Commercial
Services
Input distribution     153    159    41      41     75     73    n.a    n.a   203    180    472    453
- Fertilizer
('000 tons)         334    167     26      26    250    200     1 5    11    114    117    739    521
- Grain seed
(tons)               92     45     28      28   200    100    166      14    118      96    604    283
- Agrochemicals
(tons)
Note:   T  =   Target
A  =   Achievement
=    Includes production of 0.2 mnillion seedlings out of target of 0.8 million
in Bauchi during 1990-92.
(Z) =   Figures are for 1992-94 for Taraba and Kogi and 1990-94 for the rest.
n.a =   Not applicable since fertilizer distribution was handled by State MANR.



- 27 -
Table 2: Achievements of the ADPs in Infrastructure and Training
Adamawa       Taraba (Z)      Kwara         Kogi (Z)        Niger        All ADPs
Item                   T       A      T      A       T   I A       T   I A        T      A      T       A
1. Infrastructure
(a) Rural roads (Ian)
- Rehabilitation     132     30    193       7    210     34     50    43    340   422    925    536
- Periodic maint.      0      0      0       0    109    109     45     46    537    507    691    662
- Recun-ent maint.    370    136    160    20   1023    732    443    590   436   1759   2432   3237
- Routine maint.     270    472    150       0    992    527    800    242   1000       0   3212   1241
(b) Water (No.)
- Borehole           100      0    100       8    300    195     50       0     25      0    575    203
- Borehole rehab.      0      0      0       0      0      0     19    11        0      0     19      11
- Well construction    0      0      0       0    240    200    140     40      20      0    400    240
- Well rehab.        100      0    100       0      0      0     20       3      0      0    220       3
(c) Inigation (No.)
-Tubewell          1177    408    925      30   1180     84   1200      28    309     55   4791    605
- FUA fornation      22     40      18     14    40      41      40     40     40     45    160    180
2. Training
(a) Local (No.)        n.a  2929    n.a  1811    n.a   971   1768   1603    n.a  2494           n.a  9808
(b) Overseas (No.)      n.a    40    n.a    29    n.a    51         30     23    n.a    30       n.a    173
Note:   (Z) = Figures are for 1992-94 for Taraba and Kogi and 1990-94 for the rest.
n.a = Not available



- 28 -
APPENDIX A
NIGERIA
LOAN 2988-UNI: SECOND MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank mission, assisted by staff of the Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
(FACU) and the Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (APMEU)3 undertook a
final supervision of the Second Multi-State Agricultural Development Project (MSADP II) during
May 8 to June 14, 1995, to collect and analyze the data for the preparation of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) and to assist the borrower to prepare its Final Evaluation Report (FER).
This aide-memoire, which is subject to review by the management of the Bank, summarizes the
mission's assessment of the performance of the implementing units, the borrower and the Bank. It
also includes the plans for the operational phase of the Project and a revised schedule for the
delivery of the ICR.
2.     The mission visited the nine project units, viz., Kwara, Kogi, Niger, Adamawa, Taraba
and Bauchi ADPs, Bauchi Cooperative Financing Agency (CFA), the Agricultural and Rural
Management Training Institute (ARMTI) and FACU, and had discussions with the management
and staff. It also met with the Commissioners and Directors of the state Ministries of Agriculture
and Natural Resources (MANR) and made field visits to assess the effect of the Project's activities
on the fanners and other stakeholders. The mission, on June 14, 1995, briefed the representatives
of the borrower, the Director of Agriculture of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources (FMANR) and the Director of Multilateral Institutions of the Federal Ministry of
Finance (FMF), on its key findings. The mission is grateful for all the courtesies extended to it by
the management and staff of the federal ministries and the project units.
Proiect Back!round and Obiectives
3.     The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) obtained the loan of US$85.2m in 1989 to
finance the MSADP II, aimed at improving the agricultural production and incomes of
smallholders in the former Kwara, Niger and Gongola states. About 10 percent of the Loan was
also to assist Bauchi ADP and CFA as well as the two federal institutions, FACU and ARMTI.
Kogi State was created from Kwara State (plus a part of Benue State) and Adamawa and Taraba
states from Gongola State. Part of Kwara State was merged with Niger State during the exercise.
Following the mid-term review (MTR) of the Project in 1993, US$7.5m was canceled from the
original Loan while the balance was reallocated.
3The mission comprised Messrs: Samuel Erenie (Mission Leader), 0. Awoyemi (Consultant, World
Bank), Chiji Ojukwu, Reni-Callie Okoro, P.E. Ochala, John Eboigbe (FACU), Ben Aniakor (APMEU)
and Ayo Oyewole (ARMTI).



- 29 -
4.    The objectives of the Project, which remained unchanged with the MTR, were to:
(a) strengthen the agricultural services, through a unified extension service, adaptive
research, contract seed production, soil erosion control and privatization of veterinary
services;
(b) improve the coverage and maintenance of essential rural infrastructure, through
increased involvement of private contractors in road rehabilitation and maintenance, local
government councils (LGCs) in routine manual maintenance of feeder roads, the
beneficiaries in the construction and maintenance of rural water supplies, and water users
associations in the installation and maintenance of small-scale irrigation;
(c) strengthen supporting commercial services, through privatization of input distribution
and technical assistance and operational support to the CFAs;
(d) strengthen the management and technical capabilities of the project staff through
manpower development and training and to support project administration and finance, and
planning, monitoring and evaluation;
(e) strengthen the capacity for policy formulation, planning, and expenditure programming
in the state MANRs;
(f) strengthen ARMTI's curriculum, out-reach and revenue base; and
(g) strengthen FACUs capacity to provide preparation and implementation assistance to
the states.
Performance Assessment of the States
5.    Tables 1 and 2 summnarize the targets and achievements in the various components of the
ADPs and the Bauchi CFA.
6.    Technical Aricultural Services (Table 1). The extension services have been unified in all
the states. However, livestock and fisheries extension which came into the ADPs more recently,
need to be further strengthened through the development of more appropriate technologies and the
effective deployment and supervision of field staff. The average Village Extension Agent
(VEA)tFarm Family ratio was 1: 1189 at the end of 1994, compared with the target of 1:1000.
Adamawa ADP which introduced staff performance incentives had a remarkable achievement in
the conduct of the small plot adoption technique, SPAT (about 55 percent of the total of 263,602
SPATs) and field days (72 percent of the 121,443) while Kwara ADP was outstanding in its media
support to extension because of its qualified staff and strong collaboration with the local
broadcasting stations. Seventy percent or more of contact farmers in Kwara State have adopted
Downy Mildew resistant maize varieties, Ex-Dakar groundnut variety and soyabean utilization.
Adoption was, however, low for the TMS 30572 cassava which is considered inferior to the local
variety (Oko iyawo) and for the recommended spacing in rice which makes weeding with the
existing hoes difficult.



- 30 -
Table 1:            Second Multi-State ADP (MSADP II)
Achievements of ADPs in Agricultural and Commercial Services
Achievement
Item                    Target*    Quantity   %       Remark
Extension
-Village extension agents                               Adamawa had full
(No.)                         1118       938    84    number
-VEA/Farm family ratio        1:1000    1:1189     -
-SPAT ('000 No.)               366.3    263.6    72
-Field days
('000 No.)                   187.4    121.4    66
-Radio1I`V programs (No.)       3077     2224    72
-Women groups formed (No.)     2017      1724    85    54% registered.
Technical
-Diagnostic surveys (No.)        51        23    45    Funding a
-OFAR (No. of locations)        3556     2478    70    constraint.
-Direct grain seed production                           Relatively
(T)                             1138      249    22   low yields.
-Outgrower grain seed                                   Poor buy back
production (T)   . .            3690      1973    53    arrangements.
-Seedling production
(millions)**                  9.36      3.40    36
Commercial
-Input distribution
+ Fertilizer (T)             472100   452730    96    No private
+ Grain seed (T)                738       521    71   involvement in
+ Agrochemical (T)              603       283    47    fertilizer distribution
-Bauchi CFA
+ Credit (Nm.)                 45.00     32.11    71    Figures for 1991-
+ Beneficiary (No.)            1140       978    86    1993.
* As specified at appraisal and revised at mid-term review.
** Includes Bauchi ADP figures for 1990 to 1992.



-31 -
7.    All the ADPs, with the assistance of FACU, successfully established linkages with the
relevant research institutions for back up support in diagnostic surveys, on-farm adaptive research
(OFAR), monthly technology review meetings (MTRM) and specific studies. About 70 percent of
the target of 3,556 OFAR trials was achieved, most of it in the crop subsector. With the
introduction in 1994 of the concept of simple VEA-conducted OFAR, the ADPs hope to achieve
more in OFAR in future. The OFAR component developed and adapted a number of technologies
for dissemination to farmers by the extension staff.
8.    The Women in Agriculture (WIA) component organized women farmers into groups 1,724
groups as at the end of 1994) for a better delivery of extension and input services. Extension to
women farmers has been integrated into the regular extension service and WIA staff participate in
OFAR to adapt technologies to meet the production and postharvest operations needs of women.
Soyabean utilization has been particularly successful in Kwara State where soya cheese is
effectively competing with beef and fish in the restaurants, as a cheap source of protein. Many
women are also earning a living from the commercialization of soyabean products.
9.    Contract outgrowers accounted for 89 percent of the certified grain seed production of
2,222 tons between 1990 and 1994. However, because of the inability of some of the ADPs to
maintain the revolving fund for seed, only 24 percent of the seed was bought. The performance in
the buy back of seed was better in Kwara and Niger where effective linkage was established with
the National Seed Service (NSS) for seed production and processing. The production and
distribution of seeds of Downy Mildew resistant varieties of maize helped reduce the devastating
effects of the disease in the MSADP 11 states, especially Kwara and Kogi. The seeds of high
yielding upland rice varieties were also well accepted by farmers.
10.   The ADPs were less successful with the soil erosion control and agro-forestry component.
Most of the forest tree seedlings produced in the project nurseries could not be sold to fa.rmers
because of the availability of free seedlings from other government agencies. The alley cropping
demonstrations were largely destroyed by animals while farmers considered the planting of vetiver
grass tedious. The ADPs have been advised to teach farmers to raise their own seedlings and to
collaborate more effectively with other agencies that may be involved in seedling production. The
private veterinary component was also a failure. Some states did not have enough private
veterinarians and subsidies by the MANR on drugs and vaccines stifled the drug revolving fund.
Only in Adamawa ADP did the drug revolving fund succeed becauge prices were based on a good
market analysis and incentives were given to staff to supervise the scheme.
11.   Commercial Services (Table 1). The ADPs were used as a channel to distribute 452,730
tons of fertilizer, and also distributed 521 tons of improved seeds and 283 tons of agrochemicals
between 1990 and 1994. The privatization of input distribution did not succeed as the distribution
of fertilizer, the most viable input, remained under government control. While most of the
Commercial Services Divisions (CSD) had autonomy in fixing input prices, there were frequent
withdrawals of their funds by the ADP management and even the state governments, making it
difficult to maintain the revolving funds. None of the ADPs was able to set up a viable CFA.
Kwara ADP assisted the existing agency to obtain a commercial loan while Niger only recently
concluded a study for such an agency.



- 32 -
12.    The Bauchi CFA experience between 1991 and 1993 clearly demonstrates the capacity of
farmer controlled organizations to mobilize rural savings and extend credit on a sustainable basis.
With Bank assistance to Bauchi CFA, the credit to the cooperative societies rose from 2.06m in
1991 to 7.43m and 13.56m in 1992 and 1993, respectively. The repayment rate between 1992
and 1994 was above 90 percent. The level of savings in the societies also rose from 0.9m in 1991
to 1.45m in 1993. Bauchi CFA's success is attributable to: (a) good support from the
cooperatives who perceived the agency as addressing their needs; (b) goodwill and minimal
interference from the State Government; and (c) a responsive profit-oriented management. The
diversification of its operations has enabled the agency to absorb some of the overheads associated
with its credit operations.
13.    Rural Infrastructure. Table 2 shows that the ADPs achieved about 58 percent of their
target (925km) of rural road rehabilitation by contract. Niger ADP exceeded its target of 340km
by 82km, because it had strong state government support for the program and used a top-notch
contractor. The overall performance in periodic and recurrent maintenance was also high. The
weakest aspect was the routine manual maintenance of feeder roads. The high turnover of LGC
executives made it difficult to establish institutional arrangements with the councils for road
maintenance. In its place, the ADPs are experimenting with direct technical support to the
beneficiary communities and, in Niger State, the involvement of the road transport union.
14.   In the provision and maintenance of rural water supplies, there was stronger community
participation, in the form of labor or advance cash deposit. The greatest achievement was in open
well and borehole construction in Kwara State. The 300No. Kwara borehole program had to be
stopped at the 65 percent level because of the initial delay in signing the drilling contract, poor
counterpart funding, and the low level of the Loan balance towards the end of the Project. The
ADPs are concerned about the activities of other agencies which provide and maintain water
sources free of charge to the communities. The mission found during discussions with
representatives of some of the donor agencies that there is now an appreciation of the need to
coordinate effort. In Kwara, for example, all the water providing agencies are expected to report to
the Bureau for Integrated Rural Development in the Governor's Office.
15.   There was little achievement in irrigation development. Although the ADPs met the targets
for the formation of fadama users associations (FUA), development remained at the pilot scheme
level. The aquifer studies for Adamawa and Taraba have not been completed because of
disagreement between the consultants and the ADPs over payments. The animal traction
component trained some farmers and extension staff and linked up a few farmers with credit
agencies. The use of animals and implements did not, however, spread much. The ADPs would
need to further assist local fabricators to produce implements that are more acceptable.
16.    Management. The bifurcation of states in 1991 created management challenges, especially
in the filling of the key positions of Program Manager, Financial Controller and Chief Engineer.
There was management instability, associated with the rapid changes in political administration at
the state level. Adamawa ADP had four program managers in five years. Only in Kwara ADP
did the program manager survive the entire project period. A consequence of the instability is the
weak strategic competence of the management. Little attention was paid to the corporate future of
the organization, to strategic changes in structure or to effective linkages with other stakeholders,
including the LGCs and the MANRs. As the MSADP II Loan comes to an end, some states are
considering a reduction of the size of the management and staff in the ADPs in response to the
change in focus of the follow-up loans.



- 33 -
Table 2:                   Second Multi-State ADP (MSADP II)
Achievements of ADPs in Infrastructure, Training
and Plannina. Monitoring and Evaluation
Achievement
Item                    Target*     Quantity    %        Remark
Infrastructure
-Road (Km.)
+ Rehabilitation             925        536      58       By contract
+ Periodic maintenance      691         662      96       By force account
+ Recurrent maintenance    2432        3237      133       It
+ Routine maintenance      3212        1241       39
-Water (No.)
+ Borehole                  575         203      35       Kwara alone had
195
+ Well                      400         240      60       Kwara alone had
200
-Irrigation (No.)
+ Tubewell                 4791         605      13
+ FUA                        160        180      112
Training (No.)
-Local                       n.s.       9808      -
-Overseas                    n.s.        173      -
PME (No.)
-Core surveys                 46          31      67       Low targets
-Special surveys              53          40      75
-Impact study                  5           3      60
*As specified at appraisal and revised at mid-term review.
17.   Meetings of the ADP Executive Conimittee (ADPEC) were very irregular, leading to
delays in policy and procurement decisions. The FGN has advised that the Chairman of the
ADPEC (the state Chief Executive) should authorize the Commissioner of Agriculture to chair the
ADPEC meeting in his absence. In Kwara, Kogi and Taraba states, the MANR holds a very poor
image of the ADP mainly because of communication gaps. Bridging the gap may require such
measures as: (a) ensuring that the ADPEC sub-conmmittees for Agricultural Services and
Infrastructure function; (b) allowing the directors of the MANR attend ADPEC meetings in
advisory capacity; (c) as is being practiced in Niger State, instituting regular meetings between the
ADP Program Manager and the MANR directors; and (d) providing the MANR with resources to
implement its statutory functions, which include supervising the ADPs.



- 34 -
18.   A total of 9,981 short training courses in management and technical skills was recorded
between 1990 and 1994, 98 percent of them provided locally. For a total staff strength of 4,648 in
1994, this represents an average of two courses per staff. Although the impact of the training has
nof been assessed systematically, a good indicator is the large number of management staff picked
up by the state and federal governments for higher responsibilities. In Bauchi ADP, the funds for
training were not utilized as the ADPEC turned down the overseas training proposals.
19.   Planning. Monitoring and Evaluation (PME). The ADPs developed internal capacity for
the conduct of core surveys and the preparation of periodic reports. Staffing was fairly adequate
except in Kogi and Taraba ADPs where there were many vacancies at the enumerator level. Only
a few impact and special studies were conducted, mainly because of funding and staff constraints.
Impact studies were not done in Kogi and Taraba. APMEU recently undertook an impact study of
some ADPs but the report is yet to be released. Program Managers need to improve on their
perception of the PME function and use it more effectively for management decision making.
20.    Funding. State counterpart funding was a serious problem in Kwara, Taraba and
Adamawa ADPs. The situation improved slightly from 1994 with the deduction at source of the
state contribution. Federal funding was usually below the budgeted amount but was regularly
released. As at the end of 1994, using the fluctuating yearly foreign exchange rates, the
contributions of the funding parties were approximately, 8 percent FGN, 10 percent State
Government and 82 percent World Bank. At appraisal, Bank contribution was expected to be
about 68 percent.
21.   Assistance to State MANR. The ADPs provided the Planning, Research and Statistics
Department (PRSD) of the MANR some computers, office equipment, vehicles, office renovation,
stationery and staff training. The quantities were, however, often below the targets and the PRSD
felt that more could have been achieved if it had direct control over procurement. Only Kwara
State recruited a Planning Adviser who served for two years. Only Kwara and Niger undertook the
institutional review. For both activities, there were initial delays in finalizing the terrns of reference
and towards the close of the Loan, limited funds to support them.
Performance Assessment of the Federal Units
22.    ARMTI. The institute has established a permanent machinery for the annual review of its
courses. Between 1990 and 1994, 48 courses were dropped while 33 courses were introduced,
using such criteria as the level of patronage, demand by clients, recommendations of training needs
analyses (TNA), and changes in the agricultural sector. Staff were attached to client organizations
to study their management systems as an input to curriculum enrichment. In 1991, a PME Unit
was started with technical assistance from the Commonwealth Secretariat. This unit has been
evaluating all ARMTI courses. The results so far indicate that 90 percent of the attendants
consider the courses relevant to their jobs. Staff development was vigorously pursued. Between
1990 and 1994, 69 senior staff were trained overseas and 96 staff locally as against the targets of
64 staff and 130 staff, respectively. There was also considerable improvement in staff and student
housing, infrastructural facilities and training resources.
23.    Following an aggressive marketing strategy, attendance at ARMTI courses rose from 858
in 1990 to 1,258 in 1992. The figure fell to an average of 737 in 1993 and 1994, mainly because
of the political and fuel crises that dominated those two years. The average attendance of 939 per
annum during 1990 to 1994 was lower than the MTR target of 1,300. Staff of the MSADP II



- 35 -
states accounted for about 24 percent of the total attendance of 4,696 during the period. Internally
generated revenue averaged 21 percent of the operating costs during the period, as compared with
the appraisal target of 20 percent. ARMTI has established collaborative arrangements with a
number of international agencies and has so far organized eight international courses. One area of
low achievement was the distance learning progran. Lack of experienced staff in this area and the
logistic complications involved have dictated ARMTI's cautious approach. It is hoped that courses
would start at the centers in 1996.
24.   ARMTI's strength lies in a motivated management and staff and strong government
financial support. Between 1990 and 1994, the FGN contributed about US$4.5m, compared with
a total loan disbursement of US$3.7m. The Strategic Plan for ARMTI (1990 to 1995) led the
management to look beyond training to a diagnosis of management problems, the provision of
appropriate interventions, and an outreach to the international market. The Governing Board of
ARMTI met regularly to support the management. ARMTI has contributed to the rapid
indigenization of management and the formulation of policy in the agricultural sector.
25.   FACU provided strong professional input to the preparation, appraisal and MTR of the
MSADP II, and assisted the states with project facilitation teams (PMT) at the onset as well as after
the bifurcation. FACU also provided implementation assistance to the different components of the
ADPs as well as the PRSD of the MANR. The proceeds of the Loan have assisted FACU to pay
some of their expatriate staff and provide vehicles, computers and infrastructure for effective
operation. The construction of the Lokoja Regional Office which was approved during the MTR,
is expected to be about 70 percent complete by June 30, 1995. Of the four studies stipulated by
the appraisal report, only the one on wage incentives was completed. The study on the economics
of force account versus contract in road construction was started in 1994 but suspended owing to
technical hitches with the consultant.
Overall Assessment
26.   As at May 31, 1995 about 95 percent of the Loan has been disbursed, leaving a balance of
US$3.559m. About US$2.Om from this is likely to be canceled at the close of the Loan because all
the project units have suffered from acute counterpart fund problems in the last six months and
could not implement most of the items agreed on in the November 1994 Action Plan. The
introduction of a new exchange rate for the Naira in January 1995 further lowered the rate of draw
down on the Loan funds, especially for local procurements. Apart from the counterpart fund
problem, the other major constraints to implementation observed by the mission were:
(a)   the bifurcation of states with the attendant relocation and staffing problems;
(b)   the political and fuel crises that prevailed from 1992 to 1994 which not only
restricted staff movement but also drastically raised input prices for farmers;
(c)   frequent changes in project management and irregular ADPEC meetings which
delayed approvals to management proposals;
(d)    outside interference in management, more specifically, in staffing, procurement
and th'f utilization of vehicles and equipment; and
(e)    difficulty of management to meet Bank procurement guidelines.



- 36 -
27.    Overall, the outcome of the project was satisfactory. The re-estimated economic rate of
return (ERR) of 23.3 percent compares very favorably with the 14.9 percent estimated at the
MTRI It is a credit to the farmers and the extension services that crop yields remained stable
inspite of the input constraints. The provision of rural infrastructure, especially roads and water,
and high quality commercial inputs was strongly appreciated by the farmers. Through the project
intervention, skilled manpower was also produced at the state and federal levels which is likely to
take agricultural development management forward.
Performance of the Bank and the Borrower
28.   The implementing agencies saw the Bank's input in project preparation, appraisal and
supervision as very satisfactory. They particularly commended the increased supervision from the
Resident Mission in recent years which had helped to speed up implementation. Some of the
officials of the MANR considered the Bank's procurement guidelines too cumbersome.
29.   The performance of FACU and APMEU was generally commended by the states. Only
two states, Adamawa and Taraba, complained of low coverage by these units. This may not be
unconnected with the logistics constraints of reaching those states. Federal funding of the states
though below the budgeted amounts was released promptly in the past. In 1995, such releases
were not made till June. At the state level, the relationship between the ADP and the MANR was
often not cordial. The states complied with all the Loan covenants, except the timely release of
adequate counterpart funds.
Project Sustainability
30. The MSADP II has laid the structure for the delivery of critical support services to the farmers
in the affected states. The operational plans attached to this aide-memoire contain proposals for a
more prudent management of resources and a focus on a limited number of activities. There is,
however, concem about adequate funding, involvement of the LGCs in the maintenance of rural
roads and the participation of viable farmer groups and the private sector in input procurement and
distribution. Part of the funding problem would be solved with the insistence by the FGN of
deduction at source for continued federal support to the states. FACU and ARMTI are also
strengthening their capacity to support viable farmer organizations and beneficiary participation.
Assistance to the Borrower for the FER
31.   The borrower agencies responsible for the preparation of the final evaluation report
(APMEU and FACU) were briefed on their responsibilities in 1994 and had drawn up a schedule
for the submission of the report by May 31, 1995. Owing to logistics problems, in particular many
projects being due for ICR at the same time, APMEU started its field visit for the MSADP II FER
on June 12, 1995 and now plans to submit the report on August 31, 1995. Both APMEU and
FACU participated in the Bank's ICR mission and have gained experience that would be helpful for
their own exercise.



-37 -
Revised ICR Delivery Schedule
32.   The following is the tentative schedule for the ICR:
June 29, 1995        Submit aide-memoire (with operational
plan) to Headquarters for review
July 5, 1995         Send aide-memoire to the Borrower
July 19, 1995        Submit draft ICR for Divisional review
August 7, 1995       Consult HQ files and revise draft ICR
September 15, 1995    Transmit draft ICR to Borrower for
comments
November 17,1995    Submit final ICR to Board
December 22, 1995    Transmit ICR to Borrower and
implementing agencies
For the Mission:
Samuel Eremie
Mission Leader
June 23, 1995



NIGERIA
SECOND MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OPERATIONAL PLANS FOR THE ADPS
Appendix B
NIGER STATE AGRICULTURAL DEV. PROJECT
OPERATIONAL PLAN (JULY 1995 - DECEMBER 1997)
Physkal    Target                                    Financial    Resources    (N'000)
S/No.   Item                            Unit                   1995         1996          1997         Total         1995          1996         1997         Total
A. Application of Funds
I Management & Administration
Admiistration                   Lump                     I             I            1             3         27g2          4428         4643         11853
Fnace & Accounts                LUMp                     I             I            1             3         2048          3664         4287          9999
Hunun Reoumc Devlopnment    LLunp                        I             I            1             3          520           965          940          2425
Sub-total                                                                                                   5350          9057         9870         24277
2 Ertenslon
FornightlyTraing(FNT)           No                     130           260          260           780          487           757           712         1956
Field Visits                    No                   36400        72350         72350       217050          1658          3153         3153          7964
SPAT & Field Days               No                   16S0S        25205         25201         67214         1205          1736          16S1         4622
Media                           Lunp                     I             I            1             3          942           635           151         1728
Sub-total                                                                                                   4292          6281         5697         16270
3 Technical                                                                                                                                                                    w
MTRM                            No.                      6            12           12            30           131          394           497         1022                    0
Sasonal StaffTraiing            No.                      1            2             2             5          455           601           655         1711                     1
OFAR andField Viits             No.                    75g           758          757          2273          748          1977          1533         3510
Seed Producton/Prcessing        Ton                     84            84           84           252         1956          1941          1807         5704
Animal Trcon Trainig            No.                     14            30           16            60          268           291           373          932
Sub-total                                                                                                   3558          4456         4t65         12879
4 Rural Institutions
Input Ditnbuion                 Luap                     I             I            1             3        13671         22999        29901         66571
CFA Pomo4io                     LAmp                     I             I            1             3        24272          7995         6683         38950
Sub-total                                                                                                  37943         30994        36584        105521
5 Engineerlng
Road Rehbitation &Maint.        Km                      70            88           91           249        14300         17970         18595        50865
Inigation Schem                 No.                     83           145          156           384         2428          4160         3552         10140
Civ3 WorWEquip. MainL           Lump                     I             I            1             3         6950          2837         4038         13825
Sub-total                                                                                                  23678         24967        26185         74830
6 PME & PRSD
Plannin   Mosmitreg h EvaL      Lump                     I             I            1             3          951          1271          1497         3623
PRSD                            Lmp                      I             I            1             3           169          235          255           650
Sub-total                                                                                                   1120          1506         1647          4273
TOTAL                                                                                                      75941         77261        34U8         238050
EL Source eor Fund
I Intenauly Gaenargd Recvue                                                                                  26110         57760        75330        159300
2 Countepaut Fund - Federal                                                                                   3000          6000         6000         15000
Comlurprt Ftrd - Stie                                                                                       3750          7500         7500         18750
3  3RD - NATSF                                                                                               10250         10250            0         20500
IPRD - NFDF                                                                                                 6150          8200        10250         24600
TOTAL                                                                                                      49260         89710        99080        238050



KWARA AGRICULTURAL DEV. PROJECF
OPERATIONAL PLAN 1995 - 197
Physical  Target                                                 Financial Resources (N'    N'000).
S/No.  Item                              Unit                 1995          1996         197         Total         195          1996         1997         Total
A Application of Funds
I Management nd AdmInistration
Adninistration                  Lump                     I            I            1            3          380          1165         1165         2710
Finance                                                  I            I             1           3          295           932          932         2159
Hunan Resource Dev.                                      I            I             1           3          755          2330         2330        54169
Sub-total                                                                                                  1430         4427         4427        10284
2 ExnsIon
FortnightlyTraining(FNT)        No.                     12           24           24           60            51          157          157          365
Field Visits                    No.                    320          640          640         1600          802          2472         2472         5746
SPAT&FieldDays                  No.                   6980        13960        13960        41880           584         1791         1791         4166
Media                           Lump                     I            I            1            3          529          1638         1637         3804
Sub-total                                                                                                  1966         6058         6057        14081
3 Technical
Seasonal Staff Training         No.                      4            4            4            12          350          550          700         1600
OFAR and Field Visits           No.                     98          189          189          456          1085         4401         3148         8634
Seed Production /Processing     Ton                     14           32           32           78           10S          341          347          796
Livestock Development           Lump                     I            I             1           3           III          379          372          862
MTRM                            No.                      6           12           12           30            81         10           300          561
Sub-total                                                                                                  1735         5851         4867         12453
4 Commercial Services
Input Distribution              Lump                     I            I             1           3          665          2035         2035         4735
Cooperative Mobilization                                 I            I             1           3            90          295          295          680
Sub-total                                                                                                   775         2330         2330         5415
5 Engineering
Road Maintenance                knL                     20           20           20           60            95          291          292          678
Civil Works/Equip. Maint        Lump                     I            I             1           3           238          700          700         1638
FsdaniDevelopment               Lump                     I            I             1           3            15           88           88           191
Animal Traction                 Lump                     I            I             1           3            28           87           88          203
Sub-total                                                                                                   376         1166         1168         2710
6 PME & PRSD
PME                             Lump                     I            I            1            3          1210         3728         3728         8666
PRSD                                                     I            I             1           3            75          233          233          541
Sub-total                                                                                                  1285         3961         3961         9207
TOTAL                                                                                                     7547         23793        22810        54150
. Sonres of Funds
I Itneally  enrated Revene                                                                                  1000         2000          2000         5000
2 CamntrpartFund.- Federal                                                                                  3300          6600         6500        16250
Cxpart Fund - State                                                                                           0         8200         8200        16400
3 IBRD-NATSF                                                                                                    0            0            0            0
IBRD]- NFDF                                                                                               7550         23300        23300        54150
TOTAL



ADAMAWA AGRIC. DEV. PROGRAM
OPERATIONAL PLAN (JULY 1995 - DECEMBER 1997)
Physical     Target                                Financial    Resources   (N'000)
.S/No.  Item                           Unit                 1995         1996         1997        Total         1995         19%          1997        Total
A. AppDcation of Funds
I Management & Administration
Administration.                Lump                    I            I            1            3         724          1478         1478         3680
Finance                                                I            I            1            3         486          900          900          2286
HumanResourcesDev.                                     I            I            1            3         570          1155         1155         2880
Sub-total                                                                                               1780        3533          3533         8848
2 Extension
FortnightlyTraining(FNT)       No.                   114          228          228          570          529         1168         1168         2865
Field Visits                                         280          280          280          840         370          485           722         1577
SPAT& Fielddays                Lumn                    I            I    -       I            3         610           510          855         1975
Media                         "                                     1            1            3          500         1208         664          2372
Sub-total                                                                                              2009         3371         3409          8789
3 Technical
MTRM                          No.                      6           12           12           30         300          1000          750         2050
OFAR and Field Visits         No.                     63          110          105          278          896         1748         1446         4090
SeedProductionfProcessing      Ha.                   110          105          100          315         475          910           835         2220
Lvestock Developrnent          Lumnp                   I            I            1            3          250          750          700         1700
Sub-total                                                                                               1921        4408         3731         10060
4 Conunercal Services
Cooperative Mobilization       Lumnp                   I            I            1            3          210         421           419         1050
5 EngineerIng
Road Maint                    km                      45           90           90          225         313          626          650          1589
Civil Works/Equip. Maint.      Lump                    I            I            1            3         1036         1684         1660         4380
Fadarm Development            No.                     10           30           30           70           65          200          200          465
Animal Traction               Lumnp                    I            I            1            3           32          110          110          252
Sub-total                                                                                               1446         2620         2620         6686
6PME                            Lumnp                    I            I            1            3          767         1100         800          2667
TOTAL                                                                                                   8133        15453        14514        38100
B. Sources of Funds
I Internally Generated Revenue                                                                           2100         3000         3000         8100
2 Counterprt Fund - Fedeal                                                                               3000         6000         6000         15000
Counterpart Fund - Ste                                                                                 3000         6000         6000         15000
TOTAL                                                                                                  8100         15000        IS000        38100



TARABA AGRICULTURAL DEV. PROGRAM
OPERATIONAL PLAN (JULY 1995 - DECEMBER 157)
Physksl      Taret                                  FInancial    Resoumes   (N'000)
S/No.   Item                            Unit                 1995         1996          1997 Total                1995         1996         1997         Total
A. Appflcatlon of Funds
I Management & Administration
Administration                 Lump                     I            I            1            3          407          913           705         2025
Finance                        Lump                     I            I            1            3          407           900          900         2207
HumanresourcesDev.                                      I            I            1            3          814          1800         1409         4023
Sub-total                                                                                                1628         3613          3014         8255
2 Extension
Fortnightly Training(FNT)      No.                      I            I            1            3          418          1636          831         2885
Field Visits                   Lump                     I            I            1            3          783          1079         1125         2987
SPAT& Field Days               No.                  15000        30000        30000        75000           59           502          998         1559
Media                          Lump                     I            I            1            3          518          1181         1331         3030
Sub-total                                                                                                1778          4398         4285        10461
3 Technical Services
MTRM                           No.                      6           12           12           30          300           400          300         1000
Sessonal Stafftraining         Lump                     I            I            1            3           70           100           70          240
OFAR and Field Visits          Lump                     I            I            1            3         2076          1625         1066         4767
Seed Production/Processing     Ha.                   210           310          310          830          216           647          487         1350
Uvestock Developmnet           Lump                     I            I            I            1          760           715          320         1795
Sub-total                                                                                                3422          3487         2243         9152
4 Comnuerdl Services
Credit Liaison                 Lump                     I            I            1            3          811          1800         1412         4023
5 EngIneering
Road Mairi.                    No.                      I            I            1            3           95           175          118          388
Fadans Developnent                                      3            9           11           23           46           165          270          490
Civil Works/Equip. Maint       Lump                     I            I            1            3            85          150          100          335
Animal Traction                                         I            I            I            1           39            65          100          195
Sub-toal                                                                                                  265           555          588         1408
6 PME & PRSD
PME                            Lunp                     I            I            1            3         1303          2880         2255         6438
PRSD                                                    I            I            1            3          122           274          211          607
Sub-tal                                                                                                  1425          3001         2436         6862
TOTAL                                                                                                    9329         I6854        13978        40161
IL Sources of Fwnds
I Intanally Generated Revenue                                                                              1610         3400         2500          7510
2 Countprt Fund- Fedeal                                                                                    1500         3000          3000         7500
Cauntpa Fund - StLdt                                                                                     3000         6000          6000        15000
3 IBRD - NATSF                                                                                             2031          5582         2538        10151
TOTAL                                                                                                    8141         17982        14038        40161



KOGI AGRICULTURAL DEV. PROJECT 
OPERATIONAL PLAN (JULY 1995 - DECEMBER 1997)
Physical Target                        Flnancial Resources (N'000)
.S/No.  Item                                      Unit                199S         1996         1997         Total        199s          19%          1997         Total
A. Appliation of Funds
I Adminisration and Mwngement
Administration                           Lump                    I            I            1            3         1050         1400         2020          4470
Finance                                                          I            I            1            3          900         1400         2150          4450
Human Resources development             -                        I            I            1            3         1895         2825         4280          9000
Sub-total                                                                                                         3845         5625         8450         17920
2 Extension
FortnightlyTraining(FNT)                No.                    96           192          192          480         1140         1676         2516          5332
Field Visits                            Lump                     I            I            1            3         1020         1989         3940          6949
SPAT&FieldDays                          No.                 10240         19416        19416        49072         1100         1718         2084          4902
Media                                   Lump                     I            I            1            3         1330         1972         2030          5332
Sub-total                                                                                                         4590         8851        10570         24011
3 Technical Services
MTRM                                    No.                     6            12           12           30          300          600          900          1800
Seasonal Staff training                 Lumnp                    I            I            1            3          360          705         1055          2120
OFAR and Field Vjists                   No.                    73           116          118          307         2722         3255         5007         10984      >
Seed production/Processing              Lump                     I            I            1            3          624         1631         2375          4630
Livestock Development                                            I            I            1            3          210          341          459          1010
Sub-total                                                                                                         4216         6532         9797        20545
4 Conunercl
Input Distribution                      Lump                     I            I            1            3         1550         2180         3250          6980
Credit Uaison                                                    I            I            1            3          200          800         1200          2200
Sub-tot                                                                                                           1750         2980         4450          9180
5 Englnnering
Road Maintenance                        Km                     20           30            60          110          100          150          300           550
Civil Works/Equip. Maint                Lump                     I            I            1            3          700         1350          1850         3900
Fadama Development                                              0             I            1            2            0          150          220           370
Sub-total                                                                                                          800         1650         2370          4820
6 PME & PRSD
PME                                     Lump                     I            I            1            3         2857         3414         4279         10550
PRSD                                                             I            I            1            3          500         1500         2515          4515
Sub-total                                                                                                         3357         4914         6794         15065
TOTAL                                                                                                            15SS8        30552        42431         91541
IL Soaree of Funds
I Intenally Geeae Revenue                                                                                          3057          4935         2949        10941
2 Coutespart Fund - Fedail                                                                                          3000         7500         7500         18000
C4urdapa Fund - Sbtmic7400                                                                                                    10000        10000         27400
3 IBRDp- NATFSP tI                                                                                                     0         6600        22000         28600
IBRD - NATSF                                                                                                      6600            0            0          6600
TOTAL                                                                                                            20057        29035        42449        91541






IMAGING
Report No:        1'%49
Type: ICR



