Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
L-A/ cRTkf - 'A/I
Report No. 7087-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGERIA
SECOND MU-LTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 30, 1988
Africa Country Department IV
Agriculture Operations Division
rThis docdment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



NIGERIA
SECOND MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVAI-ENTS
(March 1988)
Currency Unit  =    Naira ('A)
US$1.00  =    N4.30
N1.00 (100 Kobos)  -    US$0.23
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless othewise stated all weights and
measures used in this report are metric.
1 metric ton (m ton)      =    2,205 pounds (lb.)
1 hectare (ha)                 2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)          -    0.62 mile (m)
1 meter (m)               =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 millimeter (mm)              0.04 inch (in)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
SECOND MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP       -    Agricultural Development Project
APMEPU    -    Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning
Unit
ARMTI     -    Agriculture and Rural Management Training Institute
BCFA      -    Bauchi Cooperative Financing Agency
CFA       -    Cooperative Financing Agency
CSD       -    Commercial Services Division
FACU      -    Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FMAWRRD   -    Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and
Rural Development
FGN       -    Federal Government of Nigeria
LGA       -    Local Government Area
LGC       -    Local Government Council
MANR      -    Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MSADP     -    Multi-State Agricultural Development Project
PCC       -    Projects Coordinating Committee
PPAR      -    Project Performance Audit Report
RBDA      -    River Basin Development Authority
SAP       -    Structural Adjustment Program
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance
of their official duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



NIGERIA
SECOND MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE                                   iii
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                               iv
I.   INTRODUCTION                                                       1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR                                            2
A.   Background                                                    2
B.   Impact of the Structural Adjustment Program                   3
on Agriculture
C.   Sector Strategies and Policy Framework                        6
D.   Bank Sector Assistance Strategy                               8
E.   Lessons Learned from Previous tiDP Experience                 8
III. THE PROJECT AREA                                                  10
A.   Population                                                   10
B.   Agricultural Practices and Potential                         10
IV.  THE PROJECT                                                       12
A.   Project Rationale and Objectives                             12
B.   Project Design                                               13
C.   Summary Description                                          14
D.   Detailed Description - Statewide Programs                    17
1.   Technical Agricultural Services                        17
2.   Rural Infrastructure                                   20
3.   Commercial Agricultural Services                       25
4.   ADP Project Management                                 27
5.   State MANRs                                            28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
comprising Messrs. Sullivan, Marples, Wambia (Principal Author),
Bunyasi and Ms. Hamann (Bank) and Ms. Weidemann (Consultant) whtich
visited Nigeria in October 1987. The report also draws on analytical
work contributed by Ms. Vatnick (Bank) and Messrs. Goe and Sinkinson
(Consultants). Ms. L. Kiang and Ms. A. Bagai provided the computer
and secretarial support respectively.



- ii -
Page No.
6.   Federal CoL.ponents - Detailed Features                29
V.   COSTS AND FINANCING                                               32
A.   Cost Estimates                                               32
B.   Proposed Financing                                          32
C.   Procurement                                                  35
D.   Disbursement                                                 36
E.   Auditing and Reporting Requirements                          38
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                            39
A.   Federal Coordinating Role                                    39
B.   Implementation of Statewide ADPs                             39
C.   Mid-Term Review                                             47
D.   Implementation of ARMTI Component                            48
E.   Project Status                                              48
F.   Environmental Considerations                                49
VII. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                                   50
A.   Demand, Markets and Prices                                   50
B.   Financial Analysis                                          52
C.   Federal/State Financial Implications                        53
D.   Economic Analysis                                           55
E.   Benefits and Risks                                          55
VIII.AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                    59
ANNEXES
1.        Agricultural Sector Characteristics
2.        Summary State Characteristics
3.        Constraints to Agricultural Development
4-1.      Project Cost Summary
4-2.      Financing Plan by Project Component
4-3.      Disbursement Schedule
5-1.      Organization Chart
5-2.      Implementation Schedule
5-3.      Proposed CFA Action Program
6.        Impact of Selected Extension Messages on Farm Incomes by
Agro-Ecological Zone
MAPS
IBRD No.   20937:  Nigeria - Vegetation Zones
IBRD No.   20938:  Nigeria - Agricultural Development Projects



l                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~- iii -
NIGERIA
SECOND MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE
Code
A.   Background Reports
World Bank Experience with Rural Development                  Bank OED Report
1965-1986. OED Report No. 6883, October 16, 198'
Agricultural Sector Memorandum February 25, 1985             Agriculture Sector
Report No. 4723-UNI                                            Bank Report
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Memorandum,         Water Supply Bank
September 30, 1986.  Report No. 6203-UNI                       Report
B.   Project Identification and Preparation
1.   Gongola State - Feasibility Study of State-Wide            D04377
Agricultural Development Project (Final Report,
October 1986), MANFU Intl, Ltd. and MASDAR (UK)
Ltd.
2.   Kwara State - Agricultural Development Project              D04376
(Draft Final Report, October 1986), FACU and
Michael Boddington and Associates.
3.   Niger State - Agricultural Development Project             D04375
(Project Document, October 1986) FACU.
C.    king Paers
1.   The Proposed Agricultural Extension System
2.   Animal Traction Component for Smallholder Cultivation
3.   Social Determinants of Animal Traction in Central Nigeria
4(a) Vehicle Fleet Characteristics of Feeder Roads
(b) Rural Roads Program for Gongola, Kwara and Niger States
(c) Term.3 of Reference for Engineering Consultants for Rural Roads Component
5.   Traftic Counts
6.   ARMTI:  Proposal for Second-Phase Funding
7.   Cost of Using Tractor Mechanization for Annual Food Crop Production
8.   Economic and Financial Analysis
9.   Detailed Project Cost and Financing Tables



- iv -
NIGERIA
SECOND MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiaries:            Federal Republic of Nigeria; and Gongola, Kwara,
Niger, Bauchi States.
Amount:                   US$85.2 mn equivalent
Terms:                    Payable over 20 years, including five years of
grace, at standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:          The Federal Government would on-lend US$30.1 mn
to Gongola State, US$28.8 mn to Kwara State,
US$18.2 mn to Niger State, and US$2.8 mn to Bauchi
State on the same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan. The States would carry the foreign exchange
risk. FACU and ARMTI (both Federal Government
agencies) would receive US$1.5 mn and US$3.8 mn
respectively.
Project Description:      The project would assist Kwara, Niger and Gongola
States with the following core activities:
(i) intensified and unified extension services,
adaptive research and cmntract seed production;
(ii) small-scale irrigatiorn development;
(iii) privatized veterinary services; (iv) input
supplies through private retailers; (v) rural
credit through existing cooperative credit
institutions; (vi) essential rural infrastructure;
and (vii) strengthening the capacity of the state
ministries of agriculture and natural resources
(MANR) for policy formulation, planning, and
expenditure implementation. The proiect would
assist in the immediate strengthen.ng of the rural
credit and agricultural extension programs in
Bauchi State until the start of the proposed
Fourth Multi-State Agricultural Development
Project (MSADP IV) project, help ARMTI improve
its training capability, and strengthen FACU's
capability for supporting the project implementing
agencies of the States.



-v-
Estimated Costs:
Local       Foreign       Total
…--- US $ Million ----
A.   Statewide ADPs
1.   Technical and Agricultural
Services                      7.3           6.2         13.5
2.   Rural Infrastructure            11.4          29.0        40.4
3.   Commercial Services              5.4          12.8        18.2
4.   Support to State MANR            4.4          18.2        22.6
5.   Project Management               3.0           2.3         5.3
Sub-Total Base Cost            31.5          68.5        100.0
B.   Federal Components
1.   ARMTI                            1.7           3.3         5.0
2.   FACU                             1.2           1.3         2.5
Sub-Total Base Cost             2.9           4.6          7.5
Total Base Costs               34.4          73.1        107.5
Physical Contingencies           2.1          4.9          7.0
Price Contingencies             3.3           7.2         10.5
Total Project Costs a/         39.8          85.2        125.0
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                   -          85.2         85.2
Federal Government                   16.9           -          16.9
State Governments (SG)               22.9           -          22.9
ToLal                          39.8          85.2        125.0
a/ Of which US$12.5 million in duties and taxes.
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year:              1990      1991      1992    1993
---------- US $ Million -------
Annual                    17.5      19.0     25.7    23.0
Cumulative                17.5      36.5     62.2    85.2



- vi -
Benefits and Risks: The project would (i) strengthen statewide
agricultural services, including extension, adaptive research, soil
conservation, afforestation rural road rehabilitation/maintenance, rural
water supplies, input distribution, marketing and credit; and (ii)
strengthen the policy formulation, planning and expenditure implementation
capacity of state MANRs. Benefits should thus be felt across each project
state. Even with the limitations of available technology, the project
would increase the value of agricultural production and farm income as
output shifts to higher value cash crop enterprises (horticulture, cotton,
livestock and crop combinations) in response to the new economic
environment. By assisting ARMTI, the project would contribute to the
formation of human capital in the sector. The project would continue the
process of role clarification and rationalization betwe--a the public and
private sectors for delivering agricultural services at the state level
The main risks are that: (i) the effort to continue the rationalization of
the longer term organization of agricultural services at the state level
would move at a slower pace than anticipated; and (ii) the project's
investments in rural infrastructure, particularly its maintenance, would
not be sustained after project completion. The first risk would be
minimized by the project's emphasis on building consensus within each state
for organizational reforms before these are implemented through a mutually
agreed phased action program, which does not disrupt the availability of
essential services and the second risk would be minimized by the projects'
strong emphasis on rehabilitation and by the initiatives to strengthen the
role and capacity of the LGAs which are charged with this function.
Rate of Return:      Overall Project                      18%
Ruzal Water Supply                   8%
Rural Roads                 Above   15%
Small-Scale Irrigation              48%
Maps:   IBRD 20937
IBRD 20938



NIGERIA
SECOND MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) has requested a Bank loan
of US$85.2 million equivalent to finance the foreign exchange costs of a
Second Multi-State Agricultural Development Project (MSADP II) covering
three states in the middle-belt of the country (Kwara, Gongola and Niger).
The Project is envisaged as part of a time slice of a national program for
agricultural development, and further Bank assistance may be requested in
support of a follow-up operation. The loan would also provide additional
support to rural credit and an agro-forestry and soil conservation program
in Bauchi, continue Bank support to expand the programs of the Agricultural
and Rural Management Training Institute (ARMTI), and strengthen the capaci-
ty of the Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) to supervise the
rural infrastructure programs of Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs).
1.02      Under prior ADPs, the Bank has supported statewide programs for
the intensification of smallholder agricultural (mainly food) pr3duction,
helped build or strengthen key agricultural institutions and services, and
financed basic rural infrastructural development programs in Nigeria.
Agricultural production has increased in all the state3 covered by the
ADPs, and food production in particular has kept pace with the population
increase, making Nigeria nearly self-sufficient in basic foods for the
first time in 1986 since mid-1970s. However, the increase in agricultural
production is the result of a number of parallel initiatives combined with
favorable rainfall in 1986, and cannot be attributed solely or directly to
the impact of the ADPs. Nevertheless, the ADPs have laid potentially
strong institutional foundations which should support an accelerated pace
of sectoral growth in the 1990s. The proposed project would continue the
on-going dialogue with the FGN on a broad range of agricultural sector
issues (para 2.15 and 2.16), particularly in respect of institutional
development. The project would have a smallholder focus, while paying
particular attention to long-run sustainability of state agricultural
services and institutions by: (a) strengthening agricultural services
through support for: seed multiplication, unification of extension servic-
es, environmental and resource management programs (agro-forestry and soil
conservation), land xse planning (with specific attention to the peculiar
needs of the Mambilla Plateau), introduction of a system of research
memoranda between ADPs and national research institutes, and licensing of
private livestock veterinarians; (b) improving the coverage and maintenance
of supporting rural infrastructure through a greater role for private
contractors in mechanical maintenance and Local Government Councils (LGCs)
in routine manual maintenance, and through community contribution to
capital, maintenance and operating costs of small-scale irrigation facili-
ties and rural water supplies; (c) strengthening commercial services,
specifically input supply and Cooperative Financing Agencies (CFAs); (d)
providing management support for the ADPs, particularly with respect to
finance, stores and maintenance operations, through training and technical
assistance; (e) strengthening policy formulation, planning, expenditure



programming and implementation capacities of the State Ministries of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANRs); (f) assisting the state MANRs,
ADPs and other key agricultural institutions to carry out reviews of their
roles, staffing, and financial resources in order that sustainable struc-
tures for promoting future agricultural development can be implemented; (g)
assisting ARMTI to strengthen its curriculum, out-reach, and revenue base
by charging fees to its clients; and (h) assisting FACU to strengthen its
rural infrastructure implementation assistance to ADPs through technical
assistance.
1.03      The project was prepared by FACU with active involvement of the
state governments concerned. It was pre-appraised by a joint Bank/FACU
team in June 1987 and then appraised by a Bank team consisting of Messrs.
Sullivan (mission leader), Marples, Bunyasi, Ms. Hamann, with assistance
from Mr. Wambia in October 1987. Negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C. between March 24 and April 5, 1988.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR 1/
A.   Background
2.01      Agricultural Sector Characteristics (Annex 1).  The structural
composition of agricultural GDP over the 1984-86 period was as follows:
staples 52%; other crops 15%; livestock 14%; fish 8%; and forestry 11%.
About 28 million ha are farmed annually, most in the form of mixed crops,
while 2.5 million ha are under perennial crops. Productlon is mainly by
smallholders, using traditional manual technology. In the northern and
central states, cattle and annual crops predominate, the latter consisting
of food crops (sorghum, millet, maize and cowpeas) and cash crops (cotton
and groundnuts). In the south, tree crops (cocoa, oil oalm and rubber) are
the traditionzt cash crops with food needs met from cassava, yams, and in
the drier locations, maize. Less than 1% of the total cropped area, and
less than 10% of the irrigable area, is covered by assured irrigation at
present so that traditional, rainfed farming systems dominate the country's
agriculture, and rainfall is the single most important determinant of
year-to-year variations in sector performance.
2.02      Role of Agriculture.  Prior to the oil boom that started in 1970,
agriculture was the key sector of the economy, accounting for 50% of C-DP
and 45% of exports (1969-70). Since then, its contribution to total GDP
has decreased to 28% in 1986, and exports to 2.4% as oil has assumed a
dominant role in the economy. Nevertheless, agriculture still accounts for
1/   For a more thorough discussion, refer to World Bank Nigeria:
Agriculture Sector Review, September 1987.



- 3 -
63% of all employmer.t, virtually all non-oil exports, and 97% of domestic
food supply.
2.03      Agricultuwal Performance Until 1986.  During the oil boom period
(1970-82), agriculture in general, and cash crops in particular, suffered
severely. With an overvalued exchange rate (supported by oil export
revenues) and extensive rural-urban migration, both export and import
prices of agricultural tradeables were too low relative to escalating labor
and other local production costs, so domestic production became non-viable
in financial terms. The agricultural sector became a net importer,
accounting for an average of 10% total annual imports during the oil boom
period, as against being the main export sector in the pre-boom period.
B.   Impact of the Structural Adjustment Program on Agriculture
2.04      The Structural Adjustment Program.  Beginning in mid-1986, the
FGN initiated a structural adjustment program (SAP). The centerpiece of
the SAP was the depreciation of the naira, from Nl.00:US$1.00 in 1986 to
N4.3:US$1.00 by March 1988. Other reforms In the SAP which hi. a had
important effects on agricultural performance are the liberalization of
interest rates, fiscal and monetary restraint which stabilized the economy,
and import liberalization which improved the flow of imports crucial to
agricultural activity, including incentive goods.
2.05      Agricultural Policies.  Government policy reforms and actions
specific to the agricultural sector during the period under review
included: the abolition of all commodity boards; deregulation of all
agricultural prices; restructuring of River Basin Develepment Authorities
(RBDAs); extension of bans on imports of major agricultural commodities;
launching of a National Food Security and Storage System; announcement of
the Government's intention to eventually eliminate fertilizer subsidies;
and the decision by the Government to disengage from direct production and
distribution of farm produce. The effects of some of these actions which
are relevant to this project are enumerated below.
2.06      The most visible impact of the abolition of commodity boards and
deregulation of agricultural prices were: the increase in the share of
producer prices to FOB prices for export commodities; an increase in real
producer prices for exporters and a decline (below previous official
support levels) for import substitutes; the mushrooming of micro
agricultural commodity traders (buyers and exporters) and the entry into
agricultural raw material production and commodity exports trade by large
industrial and trading firms; and an initial fall in the quality of
Nigerian commodity exports due to poor grading, which led foreign buyers to
mark down Nigerian exports by up to 20% (from a previous 10% quality
premium). Already, the situation is beginning to improve as traders and
buyers gain experience with the new system.
2.07      Starting in 1985, the FGN substituted outright import bans for
quotas and tariff protection for rice and maize (1985), vegetable oils and
wheat (1986-87), and manufactured tobacco and barley (1988) in order to



- 4-
control the massive sectoral trade deficit. The immediate effect of the
import bans was a 35% reduction in the value of agricultural imports (food
and live animals) between 1984 and 1985 (from N1 billion to N690 million),
and by a further 22% in 1986 (to N535/US$400 million), a trend which
continued in 1987.
2.08      The government was initially successful in reducing subsidies on
fertilizer use from 50% in 1984 to 28% in 1986 by progressively adjusting
the sales price. However, fertilizer prices have not since been adjusted
because of the government's concern about the impact on farmers' incomes
and production since farmgate prices for some major focdgrai:.s fell
significantly (by up to 40%) in many parts of the country in 1986/87 2/.
Consequently, the subsidy element following the four fold devaluation of
the naira has risen back to around 73% (1987). The government however
still remains committed to a progressive reduction of the fertilizer
subsidy, and is currently undertaking a study on a broad range of
fertilizer sub-sector issues, including: pricing and efficiency of use, the
level of subsidy; potential for efficiency gains in handling, distribution
and storage; formulations and alternative means to maintain soil fertility
as land fallow decreases. The findings of the study will form the basis of
subsequent policy decisions regarding the government's fertilizer
sub-sector strategy (see para 4.40).
2.09      Agricultural Production in 1986. 3/  The Bank estimates that
whereas the overall GDP (measured in 1977 constant prices) increased by
2.5% in 1986, agricultural GDP increased by 9.3% (3.8% in 1985). The
favorable trend in agricultural performance was reflected in virtually all
sub-sectors, continuing an upward trend for three consecutive years. The
sector's strong performance is attributable to favorable weather, increase
in area cultivated, new entrants (companies, retrenzhed workers, and school
leavers), timely avallability of inputs and the strengthened system of
agricultural services.
2.10      Staple food crops, the main emphasis of the ADP program,
continued their impressive growth tn output in 1986, with a reported
overall increase of 9.8% compared with 9.1% in 1985. Most components of
agricultural GDP are also reported to have recorded increases, from 1.3%
for plantain to 19.8% for beans. Output of cash crops however recorded a
lower rate of increase of 1.3% (3.2% in 1985). Since then however, all
export crops, but especially tree crops, have registered a rebound in
2/   Following the comparatively poorer grain harvest in 1987 (dve to
poorer rainfall), grain prices are reported to have recovered from
their 1986 levels.
3/   This discussion draws partly on t!he Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) 1986
Annual Report and the World Bank's Country Economic Memorandum on
Nigeria (1988).



- 5 -
marketed produiction and exports in response to steep increases in real
producer prices.
2.11      Overall GDP is estimated to have fallen by 5.3% in 1987, and
agricultural GDP by 8.0%. This poor performance in agriculture is mostly
attributable to the effects of widespread drought. CBN estimates for the
first half of the year indicate a 2.7% fall in agricultural CDP, with a
steep fall in staple crops (5.2%), especially foodgrains. Cash crops
however recorded a modest increase of 1.0% compared with 2.6% for tie first
half of 1986, with cocoa exports increasing by 5% in physicrl terms.
Overall, the agricultural production trends post-SAP look p:omising,
despite a setback in 1987.
2.12      Producer Prices:  The composite CPI increased by 5.4% in 1986.
In contrast, following the abolition of commodity boards in 1986, producer
prices for all commodities increased significantly higher. While prices
for some staples are reported to have increased by between 8% for rice and
30.5% for millet, in 1986 due to the good harvests and lack of storage,
prices of garri (a cassava product) declined by 17.7%, maize by 10.2% and
guinea corn by 24.1%. The trend in world market prices for most of
Nigeria's agricultural exports declined by 23.3%, but due to devaluation of
the naira, producer prices expressed in naira terms increased by 50.7% in
1986. Cocoa producer prices increased by 67.3%, cotton by 57% and rubber
by 154.5%. On average though, agricultural terms of trade appear to have
stagnated, with significant improvements for producers of most export
crops, and a decline for producers of most staple crops.
2.13      Partly due to the drought, producer prices for foodgrains
recovered in 1987. After being flat in the first four months of 1987, food
prices for consumers increased at an annual rate of 9% between November
1986 and November 1987 (compared with an overall CPI increase of 10% for
the same period). Except for some uncertainty on the foodgrain front, the
incentives regimes for agricultural exports and import substitutes appear
to be improving following the SAP.
2.14      Transitional and Long-Term Constraints.  The SAP offers strong
incentives for agricultural growth in the medium-term and the long-term.
In the short run however, there are the effects of the sudden shock of
increased input prices for a technology which has been accepted by farmers
for over a decade. In the medium term, supply response from agriculture is
constrained by the sector's limited capacity to rapidly adjust to new
incentives and institutional arrangements, given entrenched and extensive
market failure. Specific medium-term constraints include: (a) poor
coordination between the national rese rch system and the weak extension
services, constraining technological t*ansformation; (b) limited access by
smallholders to institutional credit; (c) inadequLte rural marketing
infrastructure and information systems which permit farmgate prices to
crash following small production gains; (d) poorly developed rural basic
services (particularly water) which divert significant family labor
resources away from agriculture; (e) low productivity and inadequacy of
public investment in the sector, limiting the effectiveness of essential



agricultural services; and (f) technological limitations which do not offer
packages of tested practices with strong incentives to change under the
current price relationships. In the long-run, supply response will be
constrained further by environmental and resource degradation, and the
incapacity of states to sustain the current momentum in agricultural and
rural development without external assistance if they don't rationalize
their institutional structures, strengthen the capacities for maintenance,
and improve their revenue capacities (see para 6.23).
C.   Sector Strategies and Policy Framework
2.15      Bank-FGN Sector Dialogue.  The Bank and the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural Development (FMAWRRD) have been
engaged in fruitful sector dialcgue over the past year, beginning with a
discussion of the Bank's "Nigeria Agricultural Sector Review" in June
1987, and the FGN's own "Agricultural Policy for Nigeria" document. The
sector dialogue is proposed to be institutionalized through half-yearly
sector consultations during which the Bank and the FGN would agree on a
policy framework and operating strategy to underpin the Bank's sector
assistance to Nigeria. The first such meeting in October/November 1987
developed a broad consensus on all important policy, strategy, and
institutional issues.
2.16      The most important elements of the emerging consensus on the
sector policy framework which have particular relevance to this project are
summarized below:
(i) Agricultural and Rural Development Strategy: ADPs as
designed in the past were too expensive to implement and involved
duplication of functions, which would be difficult to sustain, in
addition to being unnecessarily rigid. Therefore, future ADPs would
incorporate more cost-effective ways of meeting program objectives,
and implementation would be more flexible to enable the projects to
respond to new opportunities and priorities (and therefore stay
relevant). The components of specific ADPs would be selective,
responding to the comparative advantages and constraints of each state
involved.
(ii) Organization of Agricultural Services. The FGN and states
recognize the need for role clarification and rationalization to
ensure sustainability of agricultural services. The four areas in
which progress is sought are to: (a) minimize the waste implicit in
duplication of staff and services between ADPs and state ministries;
(b) transfer commercially viable services to the private sector, other
specialized institutions, or cooperatives; (c) strengthen those
statutory functions which will remain the responsibility of the MANR,
and to ensure effective linkage between the MANR and the ADP, as its
implementation arm; and (d) ensure that the staffing levels in the
ADPs are the minimum needed for effective services and are flexibly
structured for redeployment as priorities change.



-7-
(iii) Input Supply. The FGN has indicated its commitment to
ultimately eliminate the fertilizer subsidy. Privatization of input
supply is consistent with the Government's long term policy and
development objectives. The existing state-owned ADP farm
agricultural supply companies (FASCOMs) or commercial services
divisions (CSDs) are therefore interim arrangements. These should be
gradually transformed to private or joint-stock companies and
cooperative wholesale agencies. Present and future ADPs would support
the development of an active private sector role (broadly defined to
include cooperatives) in input supply, starting at retail level, with
the states eventually playing a regulatory role.
(iv) Rural Credit. Access to credit was more important to
farmers than the interest rate payable on agricultural loans per se;
and mobilization of ruraL savings was a pre-requisite for the creation
of a sustainable rural finance system, and would therefore be an
integral part of any program aimed at increasing the volume of credit
flows to agriculture.
(v) Food Security. The FGN outlined its policy and strategy for
achieving food security for Nigeria in the medium term. The FGN
proposes to maintain a small (about 250,000 tons) strategic grain
reserve to cater for national food emergencies. The state governments
would maintain minimum essential buffer stocks to stabilize prices
within broad bands over space and time. All interventions are
proposed to be through private traders and licensed agents. Farmers
and private entrepreneurs would be encouraged (through credit) to
maintain on-farm and commercial storage for their food and trading
requirements. The backbone of the Government's food security program
would be on-farm storage, and the program for implementing the
strategy would reflect this emphasis.
(vi) Marketing. The FGN confirmed its policy which eschews an
active role for the Government or its agencies in the dinect marketing
of agricultural produce, except under compelling circum2tances and for
public policy reasons. This policy has recently been manifested in
the wholesale abolition of all agricultural commodity marketing boards
in 1986.
(vii) Rural Roads. Priority should be given to maintenance of
existing rural roads over new construction. The Government is also
willing to explore the potential for improving the cost effectiveness
and institutional sustainability by substituting force account through
ADPs (the dominant method under existing ADPs) with two modifications:
contracting the mechanical rehabilitation and maintenance to private
firms by tender; and strengthening the labor intensive road
maintenance capabilities of LGCs, which are statutorily responsible
for this function.
(viii) Rural Water Supply. Priority should be given to
maintenance of rural water suRplies over new construction. Therefore,



- 8 -
existing and future ADPs would include programs to effect cost
recovery and beneficiary or community participation in maintenance of
rural water supplies.
(ix) Irrigation. An estimated one million ha are potentially
irrigable in the drought-prone northern states through the completion
of low-cost medium scale irrigation schemes and development of small
scale irrigation schemes on flood plains. The experience of earlier
ADPs with supporting small scale irrigation on flood plains (known as
"fadamas") so far has been very encouraging and should be expanded.
D.   Bank Sector Assistance Strategy
2.17      Since the advent of the SAP in 1986, the Bank's sector assistance
strategy has shifted its focus from food security assistance to supporting
sector planning for the resumption of growth (target 3.5% p.a.) to provide
employment and incomes for a rurai labor force which is forecasted to
increase from 50 million in 1985 to 80 million in the year 2000, and help
diversify the export base. The strategy, which is being developed through
Government policy papers and Bank sector work, combined with sectoral
consultations, includes efforts to deepen the adjustment process in
agriculture aimed at: (a) encouraging the continuation of efficient import
substitution (particularly of foodgrains) and poverty alleviation; (b)
reducing input subsidies and other price distortions; (c) rehabilitating
major export crops; (d) strengthening agricultural marketing and price
systems through physical infrastructural development and marketing
information systems; (e) strengthening agricultural support services,
specifically extension and research; (f) deepening rural financial
intermediation; (g) increasing the shore and productivity of agricultural
public expenditures at Federal and state levels; and most critically (h)
strengthening the capacity for sector planning, policy formulation and
expenditure programming at Federal and state level ministries of
agriculture (MANRs).
E.   Lessons Learned from Previous ADP Experience
2.18      Background.  The Bank has committed loans totalling US$1018.5
million for 15 ADP projects (excluding this project) to date. By the time
the Third Multi-State ADP (appraised in March/April 1988) is under
implementation, every state in Nigeria will have an ADP. Seven first
generation enclave ADPs have now been completed. Project Completion
Reports (PCRs) have been prepared on all the ADPs. Five of the completed
enclave ADPs have had OED Project Performance Audit Peports (PPARs):
Gusau, Funtua, and Gombe (June 16, 1982; Report No. 3975-UNI) and Lafia and
Ayangba 'December 16, 1985; Report No. 5972-UNI).
2.19      The Performance Audits.  The PPAR for the Gusau, Gombe and Funtua
ADPs noted that on the positive side agricultural production in the project
areas increased at 5% per annum compared to 1% in the rest of the country
during the project period. The report criticized the technical design of
the project's agricultural component which recommended sole crop packages



-9-
with intensive use of inputs. These proved totally unacceptable to farmers
who instead applied selected inputs to their traditional system of mixed
crops. The extension service was not fully effective. The audit report
estimated the ERRs to be 15%, an acceptable figure but lower than estimated
at appraisal. The PPAR for the Lafia and Ayangba ADPs criticized the
projects' complicated design. The projects experienced serious shortfalls
in local funding which caused implementation delays. The core agricultural
development programs failed to offer significantly improved technology to
farmers. The audit judged the roads program to be more successful, and
suggested that its benefits had been under-estimated in the original
analysis which had not looked at the roads program separately. The
project's autonomous management structure was questioned, with the audit
noting that the project units htad not been re-absorbed in the state MANR
following completion. The re-estimiated ERR for both projects was only 6%,
but this reflected only agricultural benefits, not those flowing from the
rural roads program.
2.20      Lessons learned from completed ADrs include the need to ensure
that: (i) project technical packages are based on proven technologies
acceptable to farmers, and that an appropriate on-farm research program
exists which tests improvements to accepted practice; (ii) close linkages
are developed with national. research institutes so that their programs
respond to problems experienced at farm level; (iii) extension services are
unified to ensure a single source of technical advice, and streamlined to
reduce overlap and inefficiency; (iv) the distribution of agricultural
inputs is privatized to provide the basis for efficient and sustained
delivery; (v) rural infrastructure construction is by the private sector
and routine maintainence by LGCs; and (vi) state agricultural institutional
structures are sustainable and the project is compatible with state funding
capability.
2.21      The recent report by the Operations Evaluations Department (OED)
to the Board on rural development 4/ specifically covered the Nigerian ADP
experience, and questioned the financial and institutional sustainability
of the rural development strategy based on the ADP concept which relied so
heavily on Bank financing, parallel institutions outside the state civil
service framework, and expatriate management. The report mentioned all of
the points noted in the PPARs referred to above. In addition, the report
noted that: the traditional process of detailed project appraisal in rural
development (RD) lending can cause rigidities in RD activities, and
recommended a more flexible approach (so-called "process approach"), which
provides for continual appraisal from identification through completion;
and the merits of relying on rate of return calculations for judging the
success of ADPs were questioned, noting that they may convey wrong signals
to project sponsors about early production benefits which may not be
4/   World Bank Experience with Rural Development 1965-1986, OED Report No.
6883, October 1987.



- ib -
reliably estimated or conflict with equally important objectives of
institution-building and human resource development. The design of this
project (para 4.04) is consistent with the recommendations of the OED
report.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A.   Population
3.01      Total population in the project states was estimated by the
National Population Commission at 9.5 million in 1985 (Gongola 4.5 mn,
Kwara 2.9 mn, and Niger 2.0 mn); and is projected to increase to 13.8 mn by
the year 2000 (Gongola 6.5 mn, Kwara 4.3 mn, and Niger 3.0 mn).  About 80%
of the population (7.6 mn) lives in rural areas. There are some 1.1
million farm families averaging 6-7 members per family. Arable land in the
project states is approximately 16.7 mn ha (Gongo1a 7.1 mn, Kwara 4.5 mn,
and Niger 5.1 mn). Accordingly, population density per ha of arable land
is estimated at 0.5, the lowest in the country (average 1.41), with Niger
having the lower density (0.4), and Kwara the higher one (0.65). By the
year 2000, population densities in the project states will increase to only
0.8 per ha, (0.94 for Kwara, and 0.59 for Niger), a 60% increase, but still
below today's national average. Summary statistics of the participating
states are provided in Annex 2.
B.   Agricultural Practices and Potential
3.02      Location and Rainfall.  The project area lies in Nigeria's middle
belt between the densely populated forest areas of the coast and the large
communities in the open savannahs to the north (see attached maps). Annual
rainfall ranges from around 2,000 mm in the south to 850 mm in the north
except on the Mambilla Plateau in Gongola State where it reaches 4,000 mm.
Two large river systems, the Niger and Benue, flow through the area,
presenting attractive possibilities for low cost irrigation development.
The Mambilla Plateau is a 4,000 km2 enclave rising some 1,500 m on the
Cameroon border. The rest of the project area is flat or gently undulating
and lies at 50 to 700 m above sea level.
3.03      Soils.  Given the varied terrain and geological base, numerous
soil types exist in the project area. The main group consists of
moderately acidic sandy soils with low organic matter content. While these
soils are reasonably well suited to growing annual food crops they are
fragile and are subject to loss of nutrients in the rainy season once their
vegetative cover has been removed. In the river plains, the soils are
alluvial with a high clay content. The clay soils set hard and are
difficult to cultivate except when their water content is within narrow
limits. However, these soils have good mineral content, retaining moisture
and nutrients longer than sandy soils. The soils on the Mambilla Plateau
are lateritic and are rapidly eroding on the steep slopes of that region
due to defoliation by cattle (para 3.08).



3.04      Farming Systems.  Mixed cropping is the predominant type of
farming with the typical farm family cultivating several plots which total
2 to 3 ha. Root crops (yams, cassava, and sweet potato) make up about 55
percent of the total grain equivalent in Kwara, 45 percent in Niger and 35
percent in Gongola. The combination of crops in each farm enterprise
depends or the rainfall and soils. In the drier north the main crop
enterprises cultivated under rainfed conditions are cereals - sorghum,
millet and maize - with groundnuts and cowpeas the main supporting crops.
The legumes help maintain soil fertility and provide the more digestible,
high protein forage to balance the low quality grain straw for livestock
feeding during the dry season. There are about two domestic ruminant
livestock units (a livestock unit being equivalent to an adult bovine) per
cropped ha, but because of the uneven distribution of livestock there is
not much integration of livestock and crops into farming systems.
Nevertheless, there is considerable symbiotic association where farmers
dispose of crop residues in return for having animals manure their crop
land.
3.05      Further south in the project area root crops become more
dominant, particularly yams. The most frequent crop association in Kwara
is sorghum followed by yam where the sorghum stalks after harvest are bent
over to form a trellis for the yam vine. In Gongola yams are often grown
together with maize.
3.06      Rice is the primary crop during the wet season in the river
plains and the fadama areas (flood plains), although sugar cane and cotton
are grown in some areas. In the dry season farmers often get a second crop
of vegetables - tomatoes, peppers ar,d onions predominantly - either drawing
on residual moisture or using low cost washbores or tubewells fitted with
small pumps to irrigate their plots.
3.07      In south-eastern Gongola, and in pockets of Kwara and Niger where
there is a heavy tree canopy, land is unoccupied. These areas are infested
with tsetse fly which transmit trypanosomiasis to cattle. As wild game
populations get ever lower, the alternate hosts for trypanosomes becomes
scarcer, and as chemotherapy prophylaxis becomes more affordable, people
and livestock are moving in to inhabit these areas.
3.08      The Mambilla Plateau in Gongola is a unique highland ecological
zone. Being above 1,000 m altitude, the climate is temperate and rainfall
of 1,200-1,800 mm extends to eight months of the year. The valleys support
a range of crops including maize, sorghum, cassava, cocoyam, coffee, tea
and kolanuts. On the plateau farmers have developed a unique form of green
manuring using the legume Tephrosia vogelii which is grown for 2 years in a
4 year crop rotation. The Mambilla economy is dominated by livestock,
particularly cattle. The excessive cattle population is bringing about
serious hillside erosion. Potential yields on the plateau are high both
for the rather limited area of valley cropping and for the indigenous
cattle if better management of herds can be brought about.



- 12 -
3.09      The project area has about 3.4 million ha under cultivation (20%
of availability), of which less than 15 percent is tractor cultivated, and
that figure is shrinking given the relatively high cost of mechanized
cultivation compared with output value (Working Paper 8). Livestock
numbers and productivity assessments are out-dated and incomplete; however,
there are estimated to be about 5 min cattle and 9 mn sheep and goats in the
project states. They yield annually about 220,000 metric tons of milk and
130,000 metric tons of meat.
3.10      Main Constraints.  The main constraints to agricultural
development in the project area are described in Annex 3. They can be
summarized as: a weak technology framework, poor infrastructure, weak
institutional support, and inadequate public investment. 5/
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Rationale and Objectives
4.01      Project Rationale.  The FGN believes that ADPs provide in the
Nigerian context, a well tested and evolutionary means of achieving its
agricultural development objectives. As a result, all states have set up
ADPs with FGN support sometimes in advance of Bank funding. Although ADPs
have by no means revolutionized agriculture in the country, they have
consistently supported a number of agricultural services, mainly targetted
to smallholders, and essential rural infrastructural initiatives which
should boost production and incomes, among them: the increased use of a
new technology package based on fertilizers and inputs; the expansion of
maize production; the development of small-scale privately owned irrigation
schemes using tubewells and pumps; rural water supplies, feeder roads and
small dams; and the rapid dissemination of new technologies in cassava and
yam production. Among the ADPs' most appreciated components have been the
extensive rural roads programs, which opened up thousands of villages to
markets and employment opportunities, and the various rural water programs
- boreholes, dams and well rehabilitation - which have improved rural
drinking water supplies through much of rural Nigeria.
4.02      The Bank has worked with Nigeria to tailor ADPs to respond to the
overall agricultural potential and constraints in the states under
5/   The percentage share of agriculture in the capital expenditure
programs of the three states during the Second Plan (1970-74), Third
Plan (1975/76 to 79/80) and Fourth Plan (1981-85) respectively was as
follows: Gongola 18.5, 12.1 and 9.3; Kwara 9.3, 5.8, and 8.8; Niger
18.8, 12.9, and 10.9. The per ha expenditures of the project states
was the least among the project states compared to the rest of the
country.



- 13 -
consideration, the changing economic conditions within the country and the
collective experiences of the previous projects (para 2.20). The ADPs have
evolved in several areas: the total agricultural development of the
states, rather than exclusive foodgrain production, is now the focus of
attention; management units rely less on expatriates; extension services
are stronger and the links between farmers and research institutes have
been more firmly established through Monthly Technology Review Meetings
(MTRMs); road rehabilitation and maintenance now have priority over new
construction; and experimentation with privatization of commercial services
has been initiated. The proposed project, like MSADP I before it (Ln.
2733-UNI), is viewed as a time slice of overall development activities
within their respective states. With MSADP III, now in preparation, every
state in Nigeria would be covered with an active, Bank-assisted ADP.
Continued Bank support would ensure that the ADP program evolves along the
lines of increased productivity, competitive market orientation, efficiency
and sustainability.
4.03      Project Objectives.  The project's main objectives are to:  (a)
strengthen agricultural services; (b) improve the coverage and maintenance
of supporting rural infrastructures; (c) strengthen supporting comrercial
services; (d) strengthen the management and technical staff capabilities of
the ADPs; (e) strengthen the capacity for policy formulation, planning, and
expenditure programming in the state MANRs; (f) strengthen ARMTI's
curriculum, out-reach and revenue base; and (g) strengthen FACU's capacity
to provide preparation and implementation assistance for rural
infrastructure programs of ADPs.
B.  Project Design
4.04      Project Design.  The principal design improvement from the
lessons of ADP experience in this project in contrast with previous ADPs is
the increased attention to sustainability of project investments and
service institutions after completion (para 6.03). To ensure the
sustainability of:
(a)  Technical and Agricultural Services, the project (i) introduces a
system of sponsored research between ADPs and national
agricultural research institutes (paras 4.10 and 8.12); (ii)
unifies extension services (paras 4.07 and 8.02); (iii) assigns a
central role to the private sector and smallholders in improved
seed multiplication and distribution, and establishes a
commercially oriented seed pricing policy (paras 4.11 and 8.21);
(iv) has a soil erorEion control and agro-forestry program in each
state (including Bauchi), and a special extension and land-use
planning program for Mambilla Plateau (para 4.09); (v) proposes
to license private livestock veterinarians and remove all
subsid±is on animal drugs and vaccines (paras 4.14 and 8.22).
(b)  Rural Infrastructures, the project proposes to:  (i) increase the
role of private contractors in rural roads mechanical
rehabilitation and maintenance (paras 4.17, 8.14 and 8.15); (ii)



- 14 -
strengthen the capacity of LGCs to carry out routine manual
maintenance of feeder roads with support from ADPs (paras
4.18-4.19 and 8.17); (iii) increase the role of beneficiary
communities in the construction and maintenance of rural water
supplies (paras 4.20 and 8.18); (iv) organize farmers into Water
Users' Associations (WUAs) to assume responsibility for
installation and maintenance of small-scale irrigation (paras
4.22 and 8.19).
(c) Commercial Agricultural Services, the project proposes to: (i)
commercialize ADPs' input supply operations (CSDs), limit their
operations to wholesale levels only, with no more than one store
per Local Government Area (LGA), and increase the role of private
traders and cooperatives in input supply at the retail level
(paras 4.24 and 8.24); and (ii) provide technical assistance and
operational support to improve savings mobilization, lending and
trading operations of CFAs (paras 4.27 and 8.25).
(d) ADP Management, the project proposes to: (i) strengthen
management and technical development programs in the ADPs; (ii)
strengthen financial management and audit; (iii) strengthen
procurement and stores management; and (iv) strengthen ADPs'
capacity for maintenance for vehicles, plant and equipment (paras
4.29 and 8.03).
(e)  State MANR's, sector expenditures and principal service
institutions, the project proposes to: (i) strengthen the
capacity of the MANR for sector policy formulation, planning and
expenditure programming (para 4.30); (ii) assist the MANRs to
conduct reviews of agricultural institutions with a view to
improving their effectiveness, efficiency, and sustainability
(paras 4.31-4.33, 8.08 and 8.09).
(f) ARMTI, the project assists ARMTI to extend its out-reach and
strengthen its curriculum (para 4.35), and strengthen its revenue
base by introducing fees to cover 20% of its operating expenses
beginning 1989 (paras 4.36 and 8.26).
C.   Summary Description
4.05      Statewide Components
1.   Technical Agricultural Services (US$15.3 million) 6/
(a) a program to strengthen on-farm adaptive research closely
6/   Amounts in brackets are total (local & foreign) component costs,
including all continger^ies, and not only IBRD financing.



- 15 -
linked to feedback from the extension services and supported
by the national agricultural research system (US$0.9
million);
(b) a program for the strengthening, unification and operation
of extension services covering crops and livestock with
specific attention to the role of women in agriculture
(US$5.3 million);
(c) Agro-Forestry and Soil Conservation Programs to arrest soil
erosion, deforestation, creeping ' sertification, and
generally to improve agricultura± .esource management
capacity (US$2.0 million);
(d) a program to address the unique development planning,
extension and land-use planning requirements of the Mambilla
Plateau (US$1.0 million);
(e) a program of multiplication of improved seed by private
outgrowers (US$2.7 million);
(f) a program to introduce modern techniques of animal traction
(US$1.3 million);
(g) a program for strengthening veterinary services by the
equipping and licensing of private veterinarians and
establishing veterinary drug revolving funds, and conducting
surveys of the extent of tsetse fly infestation and level of
trypanosomiasis challenge (US$2.0 million).
2.   Rural Infrastructures (US$46.1 million)
(a) a program to rehabilite and maintain economically viable
rural market/feeder roads; and develop LGC capacity to
maintain feeder roads in their jurisdictions (US$22.3
million).
(b) a program of borehole construction and well rehabilitation,
and to establish LGC and community private sector
maintenance capability of rural water supply systems
(US$20.3 million).
(c) a program tc establish small-scale irrigation schemes owned
and managed by smallholders (US$3.5 million).
3.   Commercial Agricultural Services (US$21.1 million)
(a) a program to strengthen the availability of farm inputs
through ADP commercial services divisions (at wholesale
levels only) and to promote the role of private traders and
cooperatives at the retail level (US$13.3 million); and



- 16 -
(b)  a program to improve the capacity of CFAs to mobilize rural
savings and provide credit for farming activities (US$7.8
million).
4.   ADP Project Management (US$6.0 million)
(a) project administration and finance (US$3.5 million);
(b) planning, monitoring and evaluation (US$0.9 million); and
(c) manpower development and training (US$1.6 million).
5.   State MANRs (US$27.9 million)
(a) a program of technical assistance to strengthen sector
planning i.e. policy formulation, planning, expenditure
programming and implementation; assist the participating
states in the project area to prepare 5 and 10 year
perspective sector plans and development strategies and
improve the data bases for sector planning, and to prepare
annual sector expenditure plans (US$1.9 million).
(b) a program to review agricultural institutions and
rationalize the role of public and private service
institutio.,s in the sector with a view to improving
efficiency, eliminating duplication, and ensuring long-run
sustainability (US$0.3 million).
(c) a program to finance selected state agricultural development
expenditure programs (which are within the definition of
this project) after a Mid-Term Review determines that
performance criteria (see para 6.23) have been met
(US$25.6 million).
4.06      Federal Components (US$8.6 million).  The project would provide
funds for the following additional coaponents:
1.   ARMTI (US$5.7 million)
Consolidation of ARMTI's training program, introduction of a
Distance Learning Program, development of new high priority
courses, and expansion of physical facilities.
2.   FACU (US$2.9 million)
Financing of additional road engineering technical assistance and
studies concerned with project start-up and implementation,
comparative efficiency of road maintenance using private
contractors versus force account, and review of economics of
Tractor Hire Services in project states.



- 17 -
D.   Detailed Features - Statewide Programs
1.   Technical Agricultural Services
4.07      The Extension Services.  An important task would be unification
of all extension activities under one service. The project would fund
communication support for extension services, equipment and vehicles, civil
works, technical assistance and incremental operating costs. Extension
staff would undergo refresher courses once every three years. Courses
would aim to update professional skills, would be residential at a research
or training institute, and would be for 4-8 week duration. The courses
would cover (i) technical aspects of crop and livestock production; (ii)
extension methods; and (iii) supervision and management of extension
programs. The unification of extension services would be a condition of
disbursement to each state (para 8.02). Detailed operating arrangements
for the extension components are in Working Paper 1.
4.08      Women in Agriculture. 7/  Female visibility in agricultural field
operations varies widely in the middle belt and is usually determined by
ethnicity and religion. While virtually all rural women engage in
agricultural processing, some also participate throughout the entire
agricultural season from weeding through harvesting and even marketing.
Many are owners or caretakers of small livestock. The farm enterprise is
characterized by separate plots for husbands and wives who usually have
different income streams and resources. Few farm women are currently
reached by extension services. MSADP II would adopt a phased approaZh to
providing direct support to women in agriculture in the three states with
programs tailored to specific extension zones. Extension for women farmers
would be part of the unified system. Some retrained home economists would
be used to increase numbers of female village extension agents, thus
enhancing capacity to reach women farmers where cultural conditions
necessitate female agents.
4.09      Agro-Forestry and Soil Conservation.  Each state (including
Bauchi) would have a project-funded agro-forestry and erosion control
component to be carried out by the extension service, to deal with the
serious risks of environmental degradation, particularly on the Mambilla
Plateau of Gongola State. The program would focus on encouraging small
farmers to cultivate fruit trees and forage trees. It would also include
minor civil works, and planting along contours of Vetiveria zizanioides, a
grass that helps stabilize the soil and control erosion, to rehabilitate
7/   MSADP IT is the first project to incorporate into appraisal an
assessment of women's f'---4ng activities and extension needs. The
World Bank's Women in Development Division is currently assessing
efficiency and productivity of women farmers in Nigeria and elsewhere
in Africa to identify means to increase food production.



- 18 -
land.  Before any major expansion of the initial seedling production
capacity is undertaken, demand projections for tree fruits would be
studied.  Fruit and forage tree production would be undertaken with project
resources only to the extent that trees are saleable at market prices with
individual farmers and cooperatives organized by the ADP to act as
retailers, and the ADP as LGA-level wholesalers.  Leguminous trees such as
Leucaena and Glyricidia spp would be produced from seed innoculated with
the appropriate rhizobia. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the
states would ensure that each ADP and LGC would make suitable arrangements
with graziers to implement regulations so that cattle are excluded from the
areas to be forested, and that these arrangements would be reflected in the
annual work programs which the ADPs would submit to the Bank for review and
approval (para 8.11).
4.10      Agricultural Research.  The project would fund new programs of
adaptive research in Gongola, Kwara and "ler States. The project research
component would, in addition to provid.ing for a research unit for field
trials within each ADP, involve staf f o: r:S .ional research institutes,
uni-ersities and extension services. I'le ;roject would fund equipment,
vehicles, trials materials and transport costs as well as sponsored
adaptive research contracts with the national research institutes for the
prevision of specific scientific services. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that FACU' would help each state to conclude adaptive research
contracts with one or more research institutes to seek and receive
assistance and support in MTRMs, diagnostic surveys, and problem solving
research by June 30, 1989 (para 8.12). In each state the ADP would also
retain a small field trials unit in each main ecological zone for adaptive
research work, both on the station and on farmere' fields. This component
would bring research staff into closer contact with farmers and extension
staff, and would provide an opportunity for programs to be designed in
relation to the constraints perceived by farmers. Work in the new ADPs
would proceed in a step-wise fashion: (a) diagnostic surveys of typical
farming systems would be done to determine key constraints by project
research and extension staff 8!; (b) when new technology is needed work
would begin on the diagnosed problem at the concerned n'ttonal research
institute and in due time the institute would make recommendations; (c)
adoption trials of the institute's recommendations on the state's trial
units and representative farmers' fields; (d) the extension service would
then persuade farmers to try the successful technology on corner plots and
to review findings at MTRMs; (e) analysis of the results obtained from the
corner plots of farmers. This approach is now being tried with initial
success under MSADP I and several other ongoing ADPs including Bauchi's.
8/   Problems include:  (a) location specific fertilizer component needs;
(b) alternative systems for staking yams in the face of rapid
deforestation; (c) the integration of new short season cowpeas into
existing farming systems; and (d) control methods of the parasitic
weed striga hermonthica.



- 19 -
4.X1      Seed Multiplication.  The project would support in each state a
cereals/pulses seed service to farmers. The states' intervention is
essential to ensure that those species and varieties of crops which can
benefit producers are available, and that the quality of seed is
satisfactory. Each state's seed service would buy foundation seed of
specified quality from the National Seed Service (NSS). The foundation
seed would be multiplied by licensed outgrowers to produce commercial seed
which would be certified for purity and viability of specified percentages
for each species by the proposed National Seed Certification Agency (NSCA).
If necessary the state program would mul,iply breeder's seed through one
generation and produce part of the demand for certified seed. As far as
possible this work would be conducted on one site of about 50 ha.
Thereafter, the seed would be multiplied by licensed outgrowers to produce
commercial certified seed with technical advise from the ADP. Gongola
would in addition produce pasture legume seed on the Yelwa ranch which is
located on the Mambilla Plateau. Contracted outgrowers would also bulk the
legume seed. Seed certified by the ADP would be marketed through
commercial trade outlets and through the ADP's commercial services input
distribution network. The capital and operating costs of plant, equipment
and machinery for seed processing and quality control, as well as working
capital for purchases from contract growers, are included under the
project. Current demand among cereals is overwhelmingly for rice and maize
seed, and those species would dominate initial production. The subsequent
production mix would depend on demand and on new improved varieties
becoming available. Provision is made for total production within the
three states of 600t in PY2 increasing to 1,800t in PY4. It was agreed at
negotiations that the ADPs would rely on contract growers for at least 75%
of seed production, and that both the seed purchase price paid to
outgrowers and the seed selling price to farmers would be at the prevailing
market prices. The certification standards to be followed would be those
established by the NSS (para 8.21).
4.12      Animal Traction.  Ar. important thrust of the project would be
support for crop/livestock integration and the adoption of animal-powered
traction to overcome constraints on draft power supply. Given the present
crop technology, the combined crop/animal farm enterprise provides one of
the most attractive options for farmers to make a significant jump in
present income levels. Equally important is the fact that only by using
livestock to build soil fertility can crop yields be maintained over the
long term in the face of rising fertilizer prices and growing population
pressure on land. Conversely, in the absence of a properly functioning
rural credit system, livestock product sales enable crop farmers to
purchase crop inputs. Research by the International Livestock Center for
Africa (ILCA) has shown that crop farmers with livestock in Africa use
higher quantities of crop inputs than those with no livestock.
4.13      The project would provide facilities, equipment (e.g. ox-carts),
and finance operating costs to train ADP staff and farmers in animal
traction. In Gongola this work is on-going and so the project would merely
up-grade the facilities and increase the availability of training. In
order to spread knowledge of animal training methods and the cultivation



- 20 -
capacity of animal-drawn equipment as widely as possible throughout the
states, training courses would be short and intensive and would include
courses for extension staff who would be instrumental in spreading the
program. Further details of th7e animal traction component are included in
Working Papers 2 and 3. Assurances were obtained from the states during
negotiations that each ADP would submit their plans for the animal traction
programs along with the annual work plans (para 8.11).
4.14      Veterinary Services.  In each state the project would help
improve animal health services. Provision is made for: (i) rehabilitation
and procurement of essential equipment for veterinary clinics; (ii) an
electrical generator, and minimal laboratory and vaccine equipment for each
state headquarters; (iii) vehicles for mobile diagnostic services; (iv) a
revolving drug fund; (v) equipment and facilities for private rural
veterinary practitioners; and (vi) a survey to establish levels of tsetse
infestation and trypanosomiasis challenge. The states would take
complementary initiatives in moving to full cost recovery for drugs and
vaccines, and the licencing of private rural veterinary practitioners. It
was agreed at negotiations that states would charge full cost for all drugs
and vaccines sold by their veterinary departments beginning from January 1
1989 and that the mechanism for licensing private rural veterinary
practitioners would be established, after consultation with the Bank, by
December 31, 1989 (para 8.22). The tsetse and trypanosomiasis surveys
would enable decisions to be taken on how serious the problem is, and the
risk faced in pursuing livestock developmental activities in the affected
areas.
2.   Rural Infrastructure
4.15      Rural Roads. 9/  The project states have some of the lowest
intensities of rural roads in the country. Niger and Kwara have an
estimated 0.17 km per sq. km, while Gongola has 0.07. Feeder roads in the
project states have deteriorated to a condition wihich prevents or seriously
impedes the movement of farmers' supplies and produce during the rainy
season, and multiplies the cost of transporting them during the dry season
by a factor of two or three. The condition of other state roads is
variable but in general they are now less of an impediment to agricultural
marketing than feeder roads. The objectives of the rural roads component
would be to: (a) strengthen the institutional capacity to prepare,
implement and monitor feeder road programs; (b) introduce uniform
acceptable evaluation procedures for ranking feeder roads based on actual
and potential usage in order to establish priorities for investments; (c)
institute systematic periodic, recurrent and routine maintenance regimes;
(d) reduce transportation costs on feeder roads by at least 50%, which
would stimulate the integration of rural markets and directly improve
farmers margins for marketed crops; (e) develop minimum-cost techniques for
9/ For more details, see Working Papers 4 aid 5.



- 21-
large-scale rehabilitation of feeder roads; (f) encourage private sector
participation in rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder roads; and (g)
revive LGC capability in feeder road maintenance. The selection of roads
for rehabilitation and periodic maintainance would be limited to those
programs (packages) which have a minimum economic rate of return of 15%.
The analysis would be done using a Bank analytical model currently in use
by FACU and other ADPs. Over the project period the project programs would
have the following targets:
Niger        Kwara         Gongola
Rehabilitation         - km:      410          550           500
Periodic Maintenance  - km:       600           180           -
Recurrent Maintenance - km:   1,830          1,900           950
Routine Maintenance   - km:   1,830          1,760           950
4.16      The ADPs would employ the 'spot improvement' technique for feeder
roads rehabilitation, which is a minimum-cost operation to achieve a
pre-determined level of service. This would generally be all-weather, but
accepting occasional one or two-day traffic interruption when seasonal
watercourses are in peak flood flov. Minimum cost geometric standards
adequate for the anticipated traffic volume will be adopted. Periodic
maintenance is the replacement of laterite or gravel pavement lost by
attrit±on, and is required at 5 to 10 year intervals depending upon traffic
volume. Recurrent maintenance is the annual, re-grading and re-compaction
of road pavement, and removal of road-side drain silt and vegetation by
machine intensive operation. It would be carried out on all rehabilitated
roads. Routine maintenance is a day-to-day hand-labor operation on all
rehabilitated roads to clear culverts, side drains and turn-outs, and
rectify wash-outs and pot-holes as they occur, cutting off grasses on the
shoulders and removal of fallen branches and other obstructions. Maximum
effort is needed during, immediately preceeding and following, the rainy
season.
4.17      It is expected that the rehabilitation, periodic and recurrent
maintenance programs would, in general, be executed by contract. The
contracts would be bulked per state, and put to tender. There are an
adequate number of interested local contractors, some with international
affiliates, to provide a competitive environment. Previous ADPs have
provided for road works to be done by force account. Private contractors
are capable of undertaking the project's proposed rural road program at
significant cost saving over force account execution. In Niger and Kwara
States, there is a residual plant fleet in the enclave ADPs, some of which
would be suitable to the proposed programs. The existing units would be
reconstituted to execute the rehabilitation programs in their respective
zones of Bida and Ilorin, until they become operationally uneconomic -
estimated at the end of 1990. Existing ADP workshops and spares stocks in
Niger and Kwara would be reduced to support only the residual engineering
units, and many will eventually be phased out with them. The project would



- 22 -
fund one small force account maintenance unit for rental to LGCs 10/ in
each state with a capacity to maintain the feeder roads which would not be
subject to contract, and to provide backstopping to private contractors.
With FACU assistance each state would monitor the cost and product of its
force account unit over the first two years of project implementation.
These costs would be inclusive of all overheads and would therefore enable
a valid comparison to be made with costs and products using contractors.
It was agreed at negotiations that these comparisons would be compiled by
FACU, and be ready for review with the Bank by December 31, 1990 (paras
6.14 and 8.14, and 8.20).
4.18      LGCs are constitutionally responsible for maintaining feeder
roads in their jurisdiction. ADPs, with assistance from FACU, would assist
LGCs which meet agreed qualifying criteria to carry out routine maintenance
of rehabilitated roads in their jurisdictions. To qualify, an LGC's unit
responsible for routine road maintenance must have an adequate staff
capability, including at least one qualified road engineer/technician, as
determined by the ADP Zonal Engineer. The project would finance the
recruitment and training of LGC engineering staff as technical assistance,
as necessary, and provide each LGC with necessary hand tools for manual
road maintenance. The LGC-ADP standard contract would be agreed with the
Bank for each state prior to its adaptation for use (para 8.17). The ADP's
EngiLeering Unit would assist the LGCs to develop effective manual road
maintenance programs. The LGC would eng gb and provide hand labor on the
scale of one length-man per 3 or 4 km. of rehabilitated road and one
headman per 8 lengthmen. The project would supply a bicycle for each
headman and handtools for each lengthman.
4.19      Each ADP's Chief Engineer would agree annual routine maintenance
programs with respective LGCs in advance, and would provide them with a
simple work specification. A cost per km based on the ADPs standard costs
established in collaboration with FACU engineers would be agreed between
project and LGCs, who would pay headmen and lengthmen under their normal
payment procedure, and would be reimbursed by the project monthly for all
work carried out to a satisfactory standard as certified by the ADP
engineering supervisor. It was agreed at negotiations that the Bank and
the states (with the assistance of FACU) would agree on an annual rural
roadworks program which would, among other things, define the extent of
roadworks to be done by force account and/or contract. FACU would submit
the work program to the Bank no later than August 31st of each year (para
8.15 and 6.13).
4.20      Rural Water Supply.  In Gongola and Kwara only 2% and 13%
respectively of the rural population has access to piped water (the
national average is 24%). There are no comparable percentages for Niger,
10/ The unit would consist of graders (3 for Niger, 4 for Kwara and 2 for
Gongola), a tipper-truck, agricultural tractor, and a bowzer.



- 23 -
but its situation is probably better: than that of Kwara. Nevertheless,
less than 5% of the rural population in the project area as a whole has
access to piped water, and the condition of many of these supplies is
unsatisfactory, with a large number of rural water schemes not working at
all or properly. The project would therefore provide rural water supply
facilities in Gongola and Kwara States. Niger State currently has several
programs underway and prefers to complete these before undertaking new
ones. The proposed investments are based on an initial review of the needs
of the rural sector and are considered an important means of increasing the
availability of farm labor which is a critical constraint on increased
production. Based on the experience in project states, one well is usually
able to serve about 400 farm families. 11/ The component provides funds:
(a) tp assist village communities to rehabilitate existing about 400 open
dug wells in Gongola and Kwara each which are operated with hand powered
lifting devices for which technical advice, tools and materials would be
provided: and (b) to construct about 500 wells in Gongola and Kwara States
each. The program would extend to 5-10% of the rural villages in each
state. Preliminary location of these new fac$lities would be determined in
each state by the ADP's engineering unit in consultation with LGC officials
on a simple formula using village population size and distance from current
water source as the location factor. At that stage it would become
apparent if and where open dug wells would ,e appropriate and where drilled
wells would be needed. The latter would be sited by contractors to serve
the locations determined by the project's engineering unit. Training of
village mechanics at each site would be the responsibility of contractors
with help from the Fadama Development Units (FDU's) of ADPs. The project
would assist LGCs to establish village cooperatives to raise funds for
spares, operational maintenance and eventual replacement. A condition for
siting a borehole agreed during negotiations would be that the beneficiary
community would contribute at least 10% of the capital costs, ei:her in
cash or kind (para 8.18). In addition, each beneficiary community would be
assisted by the ADP to organize its members for routine maintenance of the
boreholes.
4.21      Irrigation.  There is considerable scope for developing small
scale irrigation in the project states both from the Niger and Benue river
basins and groundwater sources. At present irrigation development is at
quite different stages in each state. A hydrological study has identified
areas of greatest potential, and in Bauchi State over 1,000 wash-bores and
tube-wells have been developed under project guidance. Kwara State has had
the least significant small-scale irrigation program, and fadama potential
in this state at this point is unknown. Studies are underway in order to
determine more precisely the hydrological potential of rivers and shallow
aquifers for small scale irrigation development in Gongola, Kwara and Niger
States. The results of these studies would be reviewed by the Bank before
I
11/ Refer Draft Sector Memorandum: Federal Republic of Nigeria Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation, World Bank, September 1986.



- 24 -
irrigation works are undertaken (para 8.11). An initial provision has been
made in the project to develop about 4,400 tube-wells in each state, with
the possibility for substantially e*panding the program after the Mid-Term
Review (para 6.24). A minimum 15% overall economic rate of return will be
required for the program in each project state. There is a high premium on
the ready availability of water for irrigation, and unsubsidized fadama
irrigation has already been demonstrated in some project states to be
highly profitable. 12/
4.22      In Niger State the project would build on the experience of the
MANR and the Bank financed Bida ADP who have successfully built simple
stream diversion structures to enable smallholder farmers to bring 10,000
ha Qf land under irrigated cultivation. This technology is now well
demonstrated and the resources of land and water are abundant. Although
adequate water charges have been established by the project, actual
collection has been poor, mainly because farmers were not well organized
into associations before the investments were made, and funds raised from
these water charges were tiot available to undertake effective maintenance.
The technology of shallow well and pump irrigation is not yet well
developed in this state, although the potential is good. Groups of farmers
would be organized by the ADPs into self managed "Water User Associations
(WUAs)", and would be assisted to obtain credit from local banks to
purchase materials for construction of these structures. The groups, which
would receive training through the ADP in organization and record keeping,
would provide self-help labor including the services of one or more masons
as necessary. Costs of materials are estimated to be in the range of
N10,000-15,000. The groups would then operate and maintain the structures
by beneficiary contribution of work or in cash. The ADP would also assist
groups with irrigable land to establish water extraction systems from
streams or shallow aquifers, survey agricultural holdings and establish the
equitable allocation of irrigation water once the availability of that
resource has been established. During negotiations, it was agreed that
Niger State would develop, and submit to the Bank by June 30, 1989, the
structure and operating procedures for WUAs, and form at least five pilot
associations (paras 8.19 and 6.15).
4.23      In Gongola State the potential for irrigation is mainly in the
flat plains adjacent to the Benue river system. Altogether, Gongola is
estimated to have 700,000 ha of fadama potential. Equipment would be
provided to form a unit for land surveying, drilling and test pumping of
washbores. This unit will be the path-finder of irrigation development in
12/ An indicator of the high profitability is the fact that until credit
facilities became available recently in the project states, otherwise
poor farmers readily paid up to N400 (US$400) cash to have a tubewell
installed on their farm with capacity to irrigate up to 2 ha. The
payback period for tubewells (now costing around N1,500) installed on
a one ha fadama planted to vegetables is generally below 1.5 years.



- 25 -
a series of locations where shallow aquifers are known to exist. Once a
system of irrigation has been demonstrated in an area, the project would
help the farmers to employ private contractors to install washbores and
pumps. The project's fadama development unit would then move on to explore
another site. The project would finance technical assistance, if necessary
to continually monitor acquifer extractions and water use to ensure that
ground water resources are not over exploited.
3.   Commercial Agricultural Services
4.24      Agricultural Inputs.  Loan funds would be provided to the states
for non-fertilizer inputs (seeds, herbicides, pesticides, seed dressings,
water, pumps, animal drawn equipment including carts, agro-processing
machinery and miscellaneous tools). Funds for non-fertilizer inputs would
be sufficient to meet estimated demand for the first year, and for
incremental demand thereafter. The projeet would fund limited
rehabilitation of wholesale warehouses and essential bulk transport fleet
in project year one. In addition, it was agreed at negotiations that the
project would also fund a program and unit in each ADP to promote the role
of the private sector (traders and cooperatives) as retailers and
wholesalers of farm inputs. The program would include business advice and
training, facility renovation or rental (of CSD owned premises), and agency
appointments. It was further agreed at negotiations that by December 31,
1990, CSDs in each project state would limit their inputs trading
operations to wholesale activities and their supplies would be retailed
through private distributors and cooperative stores (para 8.24); and that
the CSDs' management would be allowed maximum lattitude to set prices for
their inventories at wholesale levels, adequate to achieve an annual profit
(return on total assets-RTA 13/) consistent with the objectives of
promoting private sector retailing of farm inputs (para 8.23). This
pricing policy will ensure that project inputs are only applied to
economically viable enterprises.
4.25      Rural Credit.  The necessity for rural credit, particularly short
term, production credit, and the amount required has changed significantly.
In recent years farmers may not have required much, since crop prices were
relatively high and imported farm inputs were inexpensive as a result of
the overvalued exchange rate. The devaluation of the naira since 1986 has
resulted in a 300-400% increase in non-fertilizer input prices. With major
inputs like pumps increasing in cost from N400 to N1,600 each, farmers will
need short- and medium-term credit to continue using these inputs. Credit
also would be needed for the sale of pumps and tubewells for small-scale
irrigation; and of animals for traction and crop/livestock mixed farming.
13/ Return on Tdtal Assets (RTA) is defined as RTA = (Profit Margin Ratio)
X (Total Assets Turnover) = (Net Income) X (  Sales    )
(Sales)        (Total Assets)



- 26 -
4.26      Apart from unofficial sources, there are very few functioning
rural credit channels available to farmers. The Cooperative Financing
Agencies (CFAs) provide in the stateg potentially attractive alternatives
as there-exists a network of credit and marketing cooperatives throughout
each state. The project will therefore provide financial and technical
support to CFAs to enable them to mobilize rural savings and provide credit
(particularly to promote agro-processing and finance commodity trading).
The CFA in Bauchi (BCFA) which started as a small operation in the Bauchi
ADP (Ln. 1982-UNI), has slowly developed into a small but relatively
successful operation, i.e. from a loan recovery perspective. BCFA's
activities are undertaken on cooperative principles, with very little
government interference. BCFA, which works in close collaboration with the
Bauqhi Agricultural Development Project (BSADP), received substantial
technical assistance, vehicles, equipment, and operating subsidies in the
initial stages of its existence from the state under BSADP. BCFA has been
successful in providing substantial seasonal credit to 245 cooperative
societies in Bauchi. In 1986, it had an outstanding loan portfolio of N5.4
million, with a recovery record of 95% for its own-originated portfolio.
Bad and doubtful loans made by BCFA, reportedly on state government
directives in the late 1970s (before BSADP), have yet to be recovered since
they financed essentially unsound projects. Notwithstanding its successes
in loan recovery to date, BCFA is inadequately capitalized to be a
profitable lending operation. Therefore it requires further support. BCFA
will receive technical and operational assistance under the project
primarily to support a higher level and profitability of lending
operations, expand its profitable commodity trading oDerations, and
strengthen its savings mobilization capacity. To enable it to build a
larger equity base, and thus support bigger lending volumes, the Bauchi
State Government through BSADP would lend US$1.6 million to BCFA at the
Treasury Bill rate for 10 years to re-finance sub-loans. BCFA would enjoy
a grace period of three years on the Bank loan, and would repay it in 28
equal installments. However, before the funds are disbursed to BCFA, the
Bank would be satisfied with BCFA's financial and operating plans and
policies, which would be designed to assure it a return on assets of at
least 15% and assure it financial and operational viability during the
project period (para 8.07). During negotiations it was agreed that (a)
BCFA would no later than June 30, 1989 prepare and furnish to the Bank a
financial, operating and staff development plan showing the specific
measures which BCFA proposes to take to attain financial and operational
viability during the project period; (b) until BCFA obtains operational
viability, it will refrain from lending amounts exceeding 60% of the total
costs of a project, or US$10,000 equivalent (whichever is lower) unless:
(i) there is cofinancing participaton of other lenders, or (ii) the
beneficiary of the loan contributes at least 50% of the financing
requirements of the project; (c) BCFA would lend all its funds (not just
Bank loan funds) at competitive interest rates, and not make loans with
repayment periods exceeding a term of three years; and (d) BCFA would, with
the prior appro'6al of the Bank appoint external auditors no later than June
30, 1989 (para 8.25).



- 27 -
4.27      With careful pianning and manayemint support, the experience of
BCFA could be improved and replicated in the three other project states.
In recent years, however, the cooperative structure in the three states has
suffered from poor management and a record of loan defaults.  Few of the
primary societies remain active.  Kwara and Gongola have CFAs, but Niger is
yet to set up one.  The Kwara CFA became active only during the last two
years, and the Gongola CFA, which had been functioning more as a government
department than as a cooperative, has been preoccupied with recovering of
over-dues from MANR's past loans. Therefore, the CFAs in Kwara, Gongola
and Niger will only receive operational and technical assistance this time
around, much like Bauchi CFA received earlier. The aim is to help create a
CFA in Niger, and to bring all the three CFAs to a standard of financial
operations and manpower capability enjoyed by BCFA today, with an early
emphasis on savings mobilization.  During negotiations, it was agreed with
the states that each CFA would prepare financial, operating and staff
development plans, with consultants financed by the project, detailing how
the CFAs would attain viability during the project period, and submit them
to the Bank for review and comment by June 30, 1989. In addition to
maintaining competitive interest spreads on all their lending, it was
agreed at negotiations that CFAs in all project states would adhere to the
same operating terms as stipulated for BCFA above. The prudential
limitations on the operations of CFAs in the project states would be
maintained until they have achieved financial and operational capability
adequate to support higher risks. This is generally not expected to happe-n
during the four year implementation period of this project. However, the
Bank would review the operations of the CFAb during the Mid-Term Review to
determine whether these restrictions could be relaxed prudently.
4.   ADP Project Management
4.28      This component would provide each state ADP with management,
administration and f4nance as well as units for planning, monitoring and
evaluation, and manpower development and training. Facility renovation,
vehicles, equipment and operational costs would be funded. The effective
implementation and long-run survival qf the ADPs depends critically on the
calibre of management. Therefore, ADP's manpower development programs will
emphasize management development. Technical competence in many aspects of
agricultural project management and implementation has now been established
in Nigeria, the major exception being in financial, stores and maintenance
management.
4.29      Procurement and materials management are generally handled by
individual department heads, and there is need to increase the sense of
cost-consciousness, especially in engineering and extension functions.
This problem is most frequently manifested by high level of inventories
(often inappropriate ones) maintained by many ADPs, coupled with
unacceptably high machine and vahicle down-times, and by premature
cannibalization of machinery and equipment notwithstanding the availability
of foreign exchange (through on-going Bank project loans). To help rectify
the above situation, it was agreed during negotiations that senior level
Management Accountants, Internal Auditors, Stores Controllers and Chief



- 28 -
(Maintenance) Engineers, would be appointed, in each ADP not later than
June 30, 1989. The Internal Auditor and Stores Controller would head
Internal Audit and Stores Unics (where all procurement matters would be
centralized), respectively. The Stores Controller, Chief (Maintenance)
Engineer and lnternal Auditor would each report directly to the ADP Chief
Executive (usually the Program Manager). Because of the size and
complexity of the operations of ADPs and CSDs, and the need for high
calibre external auditors, it is expected that the external auditors for
the ADPs would be recruited, with the prior approval of the Bank, from
among Nigeria's leading or international audit firms, with experience in
auditing large and complex agricultural firms, but in any case not later
than June 30, 1989. In reviewing vehicle machinery and spares procurement
plans from the ADPs, the Pank would take into account the record of
down-time for machinery and equipment, and the inventory turnover ratio in
the prior 12 month period. The appointment of an internationally recruited
Financial Controller would be a condition of disbursement for each ADP
(para 8.03).
5.   State MANRs
4.30      Sector Policy & Strategic Planning.  The capacity of the MANRs in
the project area to plan effectively for sector development is constrained
by the lack of adequate staff, reliable data and inadequate budgetary
support for the planning function. In each state, the project would
finance the costs of consultants, training, equipment, vehicles and
incidental costs to prepare or up-date (five and ten year) resource
constrained sector long-term development plans and strategies based on
national priorities, and the state's comparative advantage. To assist each
state with the detailed preparation and implemf. ation of this project
component, the project will finapce a Chief Planning Adviser in each MANR
for four years. It was agreed that each state will prepare a monitorable
action plan for strengthening its planning capacity in each of the areas
listed above, and submit it for review by the Bank by June 30, 1989 (para
8.11).
4.31      Institutional Review.  To streamline the provision of
agricultural and rural infrastructural services, the proiect will finance
the costs of a Review of Agricultural Institutions in each state. 14/ The
Review would cnver the terms of reference, operations, and policies of key
agricultural public service institutions with a view to: (a) eliminating
duplication and redundancy; and (b) improving efficiency and financial
sustainability through possible restructuring. In each state, the review
is expected to cover the MANR, ADP, the state Tractor Hire Service (THS),
and majo- agricultural parastatals. The first priarity of institutions to
be reviewed in each state would be assigned to the MANR, ADP, and THS.
14/ The terms of reference of Review Team would be agreed with each state.



- 29 -
4.32      The State Governor's ADP Executive Committee (ADPEC) would
constitute itself into a State Agricultural Review Committee, with the Team
Leader of the Review Team as ex-officio member and Secretary, to oversee
and implement the recemmendations of the Review. The State Governor's
Office would be the likely Review Secretariat. During negotiations, it was
ageed that an Agricultural Institutions Review Team would conduct the
Review in each state, and would be recruited by June 30, 1989.   Each
Review Team would consist of at least a Team Leader (public administration
expert), a state finances expert, a financial analyst, and an agricultural
services specialist (para 8.08). To the extent possible, the Review Team
would be staffed by Nigerian experts. Other members would be recruited
into the Team as required after consultation between the State Commissioner
responsible for agriculture and the Bank.
4.33      To initiate and guide the Review, FACU would organize at least
three seminars in Nigeria, with representation from the states, FGN and the
Bank at the beginning of the process, at mid-point, and before its
conclusion. Within three months of the beginning of its work, the Review
Team would submit an Inception Report identifying the scope of work and
program to the State Agricultural Institutions Review Committee and the
Bank. The Inception Report would form the background material for the
first joint seminar between the state, FGN and the Bank. It was agreed
that the Review Team would complete its work before the Mid-Term Review of
the project, but no later than December 31, 1989 (para 8.09). In order to
ensure the digestability of the Review Team's recommeLidations, the Team
would prepare a series of decision-oriented Review Papers. The Review Team
would aim to complete each institutional review within three months. The
Review Team's Draft Final Report would form the background material for the
last (third) seminar.
6.   Federal Compone,irs - Detailed Features
4.34      Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute (ARMTI).
ARMTI was established with the assistance of a US$9 million Bank loan (Ln.
1719-UNI) in 1979 to provide a permanent capability to train staff in
managerial and supervisory positions in agriculture and rural development.
The project was scheduled for completion by December 31, 1984, but serious
delays in completing campus construction resulted in a series of
postponements. ARMTI's academic program is considered a success. In
quantitative terms, the overall average of 650 participants/year has
exceeded SAR targets by 16%. Nearly 55% of ARMTI trainees come from the
ADPs. Qualitative performance is much more difficult to assess, but
systematic feedback from the ADPs indicates that they are satisfied with
ARMTI's perfcrmance. loan funds should be fully disbursed by the end of
1988.
4.35      Under the proposed project, assistance to ARMTI would have the
following objectives:
(a) Consolidation and Improvement of the ARMTI Program. ARMTI's
existirg courses would bp reviewed and strengthened in 1988 with



- 30 -
assistance from external specialists. It was agreed at
negotiations that the Evaluation Unit would submit an annual
workplan to the Bank and quarterly progress reports on its
studies and findings (para 8.11).
(b) Growth and Outreach of ARMTI Training. ARMTI's future lies in
being able to maintain the quality of its programs while
increasing the number of clients served. The Institute's
training and media production resources would back-stop a
Distance Learning Program with the capacity to train in the
workplace, or through home study, using multi-media methods
supplemented by trainer-conducted workshops. This aspect of the
program would also develop self-instruction resources. It was
agreed at negotiations that ARMTI would provide a workplan of the
operations of the Distance Learning Program with details of
specific activities planned and potential audiences of the
program, including a timetable for evaluation of the various
program components for review by the Bank by June 30, 1989 (para
8.11).
(c)  Improving the Performance of ADPs in MSADP II.  ARMTI would help
achieve this by being more closely integrated in the design and
up-date of manpower development plans for the Kwara, Niger and
Gongola ADPs. Its prescriptions for improved management
performance would be part of the Manpower Development and
Training plans of the ADPs. FACU and ARMTI would collaborate
with the ADPs in designing training schedules and programs,
especially ARMTI's refresher courses for ADP extension staff.
The ADPs would also draw on ARMTI's expertise for consulting
services. Funds would'be made available to the project ADPs to
facilitate their access to those services.
4.36      ARMTI at present charges fees but not tuition because ARMTI is
classified as a tertiary institution in Nigeria (universities and colleges)
and these are not permitted to charge tuition. ARMTI's fees (books, meals,
lodging) cover less than 10% of its recurrent running costs. While it is
unlikely that ARMTI could become financially self-sufficient soon, it
should begin expanding its own revenue sources. It was agreed at
negotiations that ARMTI would increase its fees (as opposed to tuition) and
other income to cover 20% of its operating costs, beginning 1989, and
furthermore that FGN would exempt ARMTI from any regulations which would
interfere with the introduction of ARMTI's fees and other revenue
generating proposals for the duration of the project (para 8.26).
4.37      In addition to the technical assistance mentioned above, the
project would provide for a modest expansion of ARMTI's campus to provide
more student and staff housing. Given that ARMTI is situated 17 km outside
Ilorin, this development is needed to improve the residential status of the
cam.pus.  A comprehensive report on ARMTI's performance and recommendations
for the future is provided in Working Paper 6.



- 31 -
4.38      The FMAWRRD has recently been concerned that ARMTI is beginning
to extend its activities beyond its basic mandate of providing management
training in support of agricultural development. For example, ARMTI has
recently developed commercial business interests in large-scale capital
intensive farms and agro-processing which are unrelated to its training
functions. Therefore, the Bank and FGN agreed at negotiations that: (i) no
disbursements would be made in respect of ARMTI's program unless the Bank
and the FGN are satisfied that ARMTI xias discontinued its farm project and
divested itself of the tractors and equipment purchased for that purpose
(para 8.06); and (ii) the Bank, FGN and ARMTI would review ARMTI's
non-training functions and activities before June 30, 1989 (para 8.27).
4.39      FACU Support to the Project.  The project would provide funds to
FACU to employ local and foreign consultants to carry out studies or to
provide short-term expert advice on project-related issues. Some of the
studies to be undertaken include examining ways to expand the role of rural
micro-enterprises and women in agriculture, the economics of tractor use
and possibilities of introducing small horsepower tractors, development of
a wage incentive scheme for ADP staff, comparison of force account and
private contractors in roadworks, and preparation of annual roadworks
programs for the ADPs.
4.40      Fertilizer Studies.  Although the project does not finance a
program in the fertilizer sub-sector, the Bank and FGN agreed in the
Mimntes of the Negotiations to carry out studies on how to: (i) reduce
costs in distribution and marketing of fertilizer; (ii) improve crop
responsiveness of fertilizer use at farm level by optimizing nutrient
composition of fertilizer through better formulation, extension and
research support; and (iii) develop packages to maintain and improve
long-term soil fertility on the basis of an assessment of the role of
inorganic fertilizer in arresting soil degradation. The first study will
be carried out by a Bank team, working with the Fertilizer Procurement and
Distribution Department (FPDD) and the Federal Ministry of Industries on
distribution and marketing aspects. The second study will be carried out
by a team of Nigerian experts with support from Bank staff, consultants in
collaboration with FPDD, FACU and other researchers or, fertilizer
formulations. The third study will be carried out under the auspices of
the Director of the Federal Department of Agricultural Land Resources on
land degradation on long-term soil fertility. The detailed terms of
reference for the study would be worked out jointly with the FGN and the
Bank by May 15, 1988, and the studies would be completed by July 31, 1988.
The results of the studies will be jointly reviewed by the FGN and the Bank
in September 1988.



- 32 -
V. COSTS AND FINANCING
A.   Cost Estimates
5.01      Total project costs over the four year development period,
1989-92, are estimated at US$125.0 mn (N640.7 mn) of which US$85.2 mn
(N437.0 mn), or about 68%, would be foreign costs.  If taxes and duties are
excluded, total costs would be US$112.5 mn (N576.5 mn). Base costs are
estimated using prices for goods and services obtained during appraisal
up-dated to reflect the prices of March 1988 when negotiations were held.
Estimates for civil works for road improvements are based on cost
accounting data for ongoing ADPs, and on informal quotes from contractors.
Equipment estimates are based on recent prices in Nigeria. Foreign
exchange base costs and physical contingencies have been coverted at an
exchange rate of US$1.0 = N4.3, the exchangc rate prevailing at the
beginning of negotiations. Project costs include: (a) physical
contingencies equal to 10% of base cost for civil works, buildings,
herbicides and fertilizer, and 5% for all other items except for technical
assistance, salaries and wages; (b) price contingencies have been applied
for local costs at 15% for 1989, and 10% onward compounded annually; (c)
price contingencies have been applied for foreign costs at 3.0% for 1989-90
and 4.0% for 1991 and 1992. -Total contingencies calculated on the
foregoing basis are equivalent to 14% of the total and 16% of the base
costs.
5.02      Project costs, which are summarized in Annex 4-1 and detailed by
state, project component and expenditure category in Working Paper 9. They
cover those investment and ihicremental operational costs which are over and
above present salary expenditure by state MANRs and ARMTI. These
non-incremental salary expenditures are estimated at N66.6 mn over the four
year project period in current prices.
B.   Proposed Financing
5.03      As shown in the following table, of the total project cost of
US$125.0 mn (N640.7 mn), the Bank would finance US$85.2 mn (N437.0 mn) at
the standard variable interest rate and for a period of 20 years including
a five-year grace period. The Bank loan, representing 68% of total project
costs (76%, excluding taxes and duties), would cover 100% of foreign
exchange cost and no local costs. FGN's contribution would account for 14%
of project costs amounting to US$17.0 mn (N86.9 mn).  The remaining 18% of
project costs, US$22.9 mn (N117.4 mn), and consisting largelv of taxes,
(US$11.6 mn) incremental salaries and allowances and local general
operating expenses, would be financed by the State Governments (SG's).
Details of the financing plan are also included in Working Paper 9.



- 33 -
Summary Project Financing Plan
'(US$ Million)
(a) By Project Component
IBRD      FGN        SG        TOTAL
Technical Agric. Services            6.9       2.0       6.3         15.3
Rural Infrastructure                33.1       5.6       7.4        46.1
Commercial Agric. Services          14.9       2.3       3.9         21.1
Project Management                   2.6       1.0       2.4          6.0
State MANR                          22.4       2.7       2.8         27.9
Federal Component                    5.3       3.3        -           8.6
Total                         85.2       16.9      22.9       125.0
(b) By Disbursement Category
Building and Civil Works             2.7       2.3       0.3          5.3
Plant, Equipment, Vehicles          16.3       0.9       1.8         19.1
Rural Water and Irrigation          15.1       2.2       1.9         19.2
Rural Roads Contract                10.1       1.3       1.3         12.7
Agro-Chemicals, Inputs &
Implements for Sale                7.9       0.2       0.9         9.0
Technical Assistance, Training
and Studies                        8.7       4.4       0.9        14.0
Bauchi CFA Equity Loan Financing   1.9         0.2       0.2          2.3
Additional Programs                 20.5       2.5       2.6         25.6
Incremental Salaries and
Allowances                          -        0.3       5.1          5.4
Plant, Equipment & Vehicle
Operation                          1.5       2.6       2.5         6.6
General Operating Costs              0.5       -         5.3          5.8
Total                      85.2       16.9     22.9        125.0
% of Total                     68         14        18         100
naira                              437.0      86.5    117.2        640.7
5.04      The Bank loan of US$85.2 mn would be made to FGN, of which
US$79.9 mn would be on-lent on the same terms as the Bank loan to the four
SGs as follows:  Gongola, US$30.1 mn; Kwara, US$28.8 mn; Niger, US$18.2 mn;
and Bauchi, US$2.8 mn. FGN would on-lend the funds under subsidiary loan
agreements.  The balance of the loan, US$5.3 mn, would be used by FGN to
support ARMTI (US$3.8 mn), and to finance project studies and consultancies
sponsored by FACU (US$1.5 mn). Agreement was reached at negotiations that
FGN would include in FMAWRRD's annual budget FGN's annual contributions to
the ADPs and ARMTI, and that the SGs would include in their annual budgets
their contributions to the ADPs. Assurances were also obtained at
negotiations that the State Governments for the ADPs, and the Federal
Government for ARMTI, would meet the salary costs of existing staff



- 34 -
seconded to the project in addition to their contributions to incremental
costs. The details of the costs and the financing plan are provided in
Annex 4-2.
5.05      Project and Special Accountso.  FGN and the SGs gave assurances at
negotiations that (i) the ADPs and ARMTI would open and maintain a project
account (Account No. 1) in a local commercial bank to receive the project
contributions of the SGs (ADPs) and FGN (ADPs, FACU and ARMTI); and (ii)
FGN's and the SGs' contributions would be paid into these accounts
quarterly in advance. The amount of initlql deposits. which would be
denominated in naira, would be as follows:
Iilitial Deposits in Account No. 1 (Project Account)
(US$ Million)
SG               FGN
Bauchi               0.05            0.075
Gongola              0.40            0.250
Kwara                0.40            0.250
Niger                0.45            0.200
ARMTI                 -              0.200
FACU                  _              0.100
Total                1.30            1.075
5.06      Special Accounts (Account No. 2), which would be denominated in
US dollars would be established by each ADP, FACU and ARMTI in local
commercial banks into which the Bank would make initial deposits totalling
US$2.2 mn. The deposits would be used to prefinance goods and services
which are reimbursable under the loan.  The amounts of initial deposits
into the Special Accounts (Account No. 2), which would be denominated in
U.S. dollars, would be as follows:
US$
Gongola         0.5
Kwara           0.5
Niger           0.5
Bauchi          0.5
ARMTI           0.1
FACU            0.1
Total           2.2
5.07      Retroactive Financing.' Withdrawals of up to US$2.0 million would
be made on account of payments made for plant, equipment, vehicles and
spare parts (Category 1), civil works (Category 2), and consultant
services, training and studies (Category 6) for expenditures made after
January 1, 1988.



- 35 -
C.   Procurement
5.08      Procurement arrangements are summarized as follows:
Amount and Methods of Procurement
(US$ Million)
(IBRD Share itn Parentheses)
ICB          LCB           Others       Total
1.  Plant, Equipment, Vehicles       16.3          2.7             -           19.0
and Spare Parts                 16.3                                     (16.3)
2.  Civil Works and Buildings         -            5.3             -            5.3
(2.7)                       (2.7)
3.  Boreholes, Handpumps and         15.1          4.2             -           19.3
Well Rehabilitation            (15.1)                                    (15.1)
4.  Rural Roads Contract              -           12.6             -           12.6
(10.1)                      (10.1)
5.  Farm, Veterinary Inputs and       7.9           -             1.1           9.0
Implements                      (7.9)                                     (7.9)
6.  Incremental Salaries and          -             -             5.5           5.5
Allowances                              I
7.  Technical Assistance,                           -            14.0          14.0
Training and Studies                                       ( 8.7)        ( 8.7)
8.  Operational Costs                 -           12.4             -           12.4
( 2.0)                      ( 2.0)
9.  Additional Programs              20.5          5.1             -           25.6
(20.5)                                   (20.5)
10. Line of Credit to BCFA            -             -             2.3           2.3
(1.9)        (1.9)
TOTAL                     59.8         42.3           22.9         125.0
(59.8)      (14.8)         (10.6)        (85.2)
5.09      All goods and services financedlunder the Bank loan would be
procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. It was agreed that all
contracts exceeding US$500,000 for (i) vehicles, plant, equipment, spare



- 36 -
parts; (ii) boreholes, handpumps and well rehabilitation; (iii) rural road
rehabilitation and maintenance; and (iv) farm and veterinary inputs would
be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Whenever
possible, purchases would be grouped into packages of at least US$500,000.
It was also agreed that purchases valued at less than US$500,000 but above
US$60,000 would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB).
Purchases for groups of itemt valued at less than US$60,000 would be made
through international or direct competitive shopping on the basis o4 at
least three quotations. Procurement for sub-loans financed by Bauchi CFA
would be through normal business practices. For goods and services subject
to ICB, a pre-qualification process would be followed in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Procurement under ICB and LCB would amount to US$102.1
million. Procurement of civil works would be done on the basis of LCB
since these works would be scattered over the participating states and
would not be expected to attract international bidders. The bulk of these
contracts (95%) would be undertaken on the basis of LCB. Procurement for
technical assistance (US$14.0 million) would be done in accordance with
Bank guidelines for the procurement of consultants. All technical
assistance staff (whether short term or residential), auditors and study
teams recruited under the project, and locally recruited at or above Heads
of Department (including the ADP Chief Executives), would have
qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
Other costs (US$17.9 million) would comprise incremental salaries and
allowances, and operational costs and general services which include
vehicle and plant operation and maintenance, office/house rentals, travel
expenses, bank charge3 and audit fees, etc. It was agreed that all bidding
packages for goods and works over US$300,000 equivalent would be subject to
prior review by the Bank.
D.   Disbursement
5.10      The Bank loan of US$85.2 mn would be disbursed over a five year
period from July 1989 through June 1991. Disbursements are based on the
following assumptions:
(i) a four year implementation period for Gongola, Kwara and
Niger ADPs and ARMTI;
(ii) a two year implementation period for Bauchi ADP; and
(iii) a five year disbursement period to account for start-up
delays and unforseen difficulties during implementation.
The disbursement p-ofile for (area) agricultural development projects in
Nigeria is eight years with 86% disbursed after six years. Most of these
were first time projects, designed for a five year implementation period,
and which experienced significant start up delays. FGN and the states have
now chosen to have shorter and smaller projects which are considered as
phases of a longer term program. Unlike the earlier ADPs, in MSADP II
states the program has already started and basic institutions already
exist. A four year implementation period provides design flexibility which



- 37 -
is necessary given rapidly changing macroeconomic conditions. The project
would finance the first four years of an estimated 10-15 year program in
Gongola, Kwara and Niger States. The disbursement period of five years is
considered realistic given that most of the states have had experience with
previous Bank projects, have already started the ADPs, and that FACU would
provide start-up assistance which has proven effective in previous ADPs.
The disbursement schedule is provided in Annex 4-3. The conditions of
disbursement would be that: (a) the state would have concluded a
subsidiary loan agreement with the Federal Government (para 8.01); (b) the
state government would have established the ADP Management Unit, and
appointed key staff, including the Financial Controller to head the Firance
Department (para 8.03); and (c) the state government would have unified the
extension services, and removed redundant staff from the payrolls of the
ADPs (para 8.02). Additional conditions of disbursement applying only to
ARMTI and BCFA are that (a) ARMTI would have discontinued its farm project
and divested itself of the tractors and equipment purchased for purposes of
the farm porject, and (b) BCFA would have furnished its financial and
operating plans and policies satisfactory to the Bank.
5.11      The proposed allocation of loan proceeds and the disbursement
percentages are given below:
Summary Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Amount of the        % of Expenditure
Category                  Loan Allocated       to be Financed
i.  Plant, Equipment, VrehicLes         14.6             100% of foreign and
and Spare Parts                                      85% of local
2.  Civil Works                           2.3            100% of foreign and
85 of local
3.  Boreholes, Handpumps and             13.1            100% of foreign and
Well Rehabilitation                                  80% of local
4.  Rural Roads Contract                  8.8            100% of foreign and
80% of local
5.  Farm and Veterinary Inputs           6.6             100% of foreign and
and Implements                                       90% of local
6.  Technical Assistance, Training        7.7            100% of foreign and
and ,tudies                                          75% of local
7.  General Operational Costs             1.8            100% of foreign and
75% of local
8.  Bauchi CFA Sub-loans                  1.6            100% of foreign and
50% of local
9.  Additional Programs                  16.6            100% of foreign and
80% of local
10. Unallocated                         12.1
Total                    85.2



- 38 -
The following conditWons of disbursement from Category 9 (Additional
Programs) were agreed at negotiations: a satisfactory Mid-Term Review
(para 8.04); and agreement between the Bank and the states on the
additional programs to be eligible for financing which are consistent with
the definition of this project (para 8.05).
5.12      Reimbursements for approved expenditures for (i) purchases duly
batched and less than US$20,000, (ii) financing of Bauchi CFA's sub-loans
and (iii) incremental operating costs and general services would be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs). All supporting documents
for SOEs would be held by the project units for review b) auditors and Bank
supervision missions. Withdrawal applications would be aggregated in
amounts of at least US$20,000 prior to submission to the Bank for
reimbursement.
E.   Auditing and Reporting Requirements
5.13      Each of the state ADPs, FACU, ARMTI, and BCFA would keep
financial records in accordance with sound accounting practices to reflect
their operations and financial positions, and would have the accounts
including special accounts and SOEs audited annually by a firm of
independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audited accounts
and the auditor's report, including the Management Letter (Long Form), and
a statement as to whether or not Bank funds had been used for their
intended purpose, would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the
end of the fiscal year. Assurancels were obtained to this effect during
negotiations.
5.14      Each state ADP, FACU, ARMTI, and BCFA would prepare annual
budgets and work programs based on appraisal estimates, as amended. With
the assistance of FACU, : uniform budget and accrual based financial
accounting format would be introduced in the first project year, which
would adequately portray project activities, unit costs, budget variances
by cost centers, benefits, and productivity; and form the basis of a proper
management information and accounting system. At the time the annual work
program and budget are prepared, each state ADP and FACU would also prepare
a procurement program for the coming year, giving items and quantities
required, sources of funds, timing and procurement methods (whether ICB or
other). This program would be submitted along with the annual budget to
the Bank for information. Assurancer to the above were obtained at
negotiations (para 8.11). The state ADPs and FCU would prepare quarterly
cash flow statements, which would be submitted to FDRD and the Bank, and
would operate on the basis of these statements. On the basis of the
approved budgets and plocurement program, FGN and the SGs would make
budgetary allocations and thereafter would release the necessary funds
quarterly in advance.
5.15      Each ADP, FhCU, ARMTI, and BCFA would submit quarterly reports
and management accounts to FDRD and the Bank showing actual and budgeted
expenditures, statements of progres- achieved and objectives for the
forthcoming quarter by each project component. The quarterly reports would



- 39-
contain summaries of expenditures and use of funds to date. The management
accounts would contain key operating ratios, particularly on inventories,
down-time, and (in the case of the CSD) return on total assets and
turnover. The CFAs would prepare similar accounts with portfolio details
for submission to the state governments and the Bank every six months (para
8.11).
5.16      Mid-Term and Completion Reviews.  During negotiations, it was
agreed that the states, the Bank and FACU would conduct a Mid-Term Review
of the project following the second year of implementation. The review
would also examine state agricultural expenditures during the project's
initial two years as compared with priorities articulated in the state
agricultural development plan (paras 6.24 and 8.04). FACU would provide
coordination assistance, and the results and any recommended changes in
project enphasis would be discussed with FGN and the Bank. After
completion of the pro,ect APMEPU would prepare a project completion report
for each ADP, BCFA, and ARMTI analyzing the implementation of the project
and its impact in relation to its objectives, and would submit them to the
Bank within six months of the closing date (para 8.10).
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Federal Coordinating Role
6.01      FMAWRRD is responsible for ehe project being carried out through
the designated implementing bodies. FMAWRRD plays a crucial role in the
budgeting process, ensuring that the agreed upon level of Federal funds is
budgeted annually for all Bank-supported projects in the sector, and also
that the funds are then released quarterly to the entities. FMIAWRRD would
coordinate other Federal ministries and bodies who have roles in areas
touched on by the ADPs through a Project Coordinations Committee (PCC).
The PCC would be chaired by the Director of Rural Development, FMAWRRD and
would inlcude the Directors and Heads of the following FMAWRRD units:
Directors of Agriculture, Water Resources, Fisheries, Forestry, the
National Livestock Department, ARMTI; and Heads of the National Seed
Service, FACU, APMEPU, the Rural Agro-Industrial Development Scheme
(RAIDS). In addition, the Director of Agricultural Services, Federal
Ministry of Science and Technology and the Program Managers of all ADPs
would be members of the PCC. It was agreed at negotiations that the PCC
would meet semi-annually to review progress of the ADPs and to resolve any
coordination issues that may have surfaced, and that it would extend its
coverage to all ongoing ADPs. FACU would serve as the secretariat of this
committee. The membership and functions of the PCC were agreed at
negotiations. An organization chart of MSADP II is provided in Annex 5-1;
and an implementation schedule in Annex 5-2.
B.   Implementation of Statewide ADPs
6.02      Overview.  A feature of the ADPs is that they have incorporated



- 40 -
functions carried out by more than one ministry. In most states, the MANR
would be responsible for technical agricultural activities and input
supply; the Ministry of Local Government, and through it, the Local
Government Councils (LGCs) for rural road construction and maintenance; and
a water board with nominal responsibilities for rural water. To coordinate
ADP investments in the above areas, an ADP Executive Committee (ADPEC) has
usually been established which includes representation of the above groups.
In some states the ADPEC has been headed by the State Governor, in others
by the Commissioner, MANR, and some have Lad independent heads appointed by
the Governor. Also, a few states, including Bauchi, have passed
legislation transforming the ADPEC, the project management unit and the
departments working on agricultural activities into an Agricultural and
Rural Development Authority. This takes the ADPECs one step further by
making them permanent and (if they develop strong revenue bases)
potenti4lly self-sustaining entities; and eliminates the duplication of
functions with other agencies and ministries.
6.03      The FGN and the Bank have agreed to continue with the
semi-autonomous ADPs with some important changes (para 4.04). A clear
relationship between the ADP and MANR would be established (where they are
separate), with the ADP effectively becoming the implementing arm of MANR
which would provide overall policy guidance. It is mandatory that the
central thrust of the project should remain firmly in its technical
agricultural components of extention and research, in which the ADP would
eventually be each state's sole functionary. All the other services in the
agricultural sector which the project would engender and the extension
service amplify (water supplies, roadworks, irrigation, seed
multiplication, veterinary services, input supplies) would graduate outside
the umbrella of the ADP over time and move into the private sector or
become the responsbility of cooperatives or LGCs. Thus roadworks would
revert to LGCs; irrigation management would be turned over to water users
associations; seed production would increasingly depend on private
outgrowers; the LGC or State Water Board would take over rural water supply
management; and input distribution would be privatized. The project's
feeder road and water supply components are cornerstones without which
agricultural production would be held back. In their case also the project
would strengthen the institutional and technical capacity of the LGCs
responsible for those services. Ultimately, the ADP would under this
scenario evolve as a unified extension and field trials service. The ADPs
would no longer implement roads program through large force account
operations. Instead major road works would be contracted to the private
sector and routine maintenance would be done by LGCs. Also the ADPs would
progressively rely more on the private sector to deliver commercial inputs
in lieu of their own operations. Both the above initiatives involving the
private sector are expected to save costs and establish a sustainable basis
for continued activity. Similarly, state MANRs would be strengthened in
their essential policy formulation, regulatory, disease control, planning,
budgeting, and expenditure implementation function. The membership and
terms of reference for the main project implementation organizations i.e.
ADPEC and it, two sub-committees; and ADPMU and its sub-committees
described below (paras 6.04 to 6.08) were agreed at negotiations.



- 41 -
6.04      ADP Executive Committee (ADPEC).  An Executive Committee
responsible to the State Governor in Council would oversee the project.
ADPEC would be chaired by the State Governor, and the Commissioner for MANR
would be the Deputy Chairman. Other members of the ADPEC would include the
State Commissioners for Local Government, Finance and Economic Planning,
Works and Transport, Commerce and Industry; the secretary to the State
Government and Head of Service, the Director of FDRD, the Director of
ARMTI, the Head of FACU, the General Manager of the relevant River Basin
Authority, the State Director of DFRRI, the Permanent Secretary MANR, and
the ADP Chief Executive as member/secretary. ADPEC would meet at least
once every two months for the first two years of the project. In addition
to policy, financial and coordination matters, ADPEC would approve the
annual budget and work plan, appointment of principal staff, and ensure
that adequate funds would be available. ADPEC would approve all contracts
estimated, to cost an amount above US$100,000. Each ADP would create an
internal Tender Committee to approve all contracts awarded on the basis of
LCB or ICB; provided however that all contracts estimated to cost more than
US$25,000 and up to US$100,000 would be cleared by the State Commissioner
Agriculture.   Contracts requiring ADPEC's approval (i.e. above US$100,000)
would first be recommended by the ADPMU Tender Committee. The Tender
Committee would be chaired by the ADP Chief Executive, and would include
other members of the ADP Management Unit (ADPMU). The Chief Administrative
Officer ADPMU would serve as secretary to the Teader Committee.
6.05      Two sub-committees would be established under the ADPEC: an
Agricultural Services Sub-Committee; and an Infrastructure Development
Sub-Committee. The Agricultural Services Sub-committee would coordinate
services to farmers. The Permanent Secretary MANR would chair the
sub-committee, and its members would include the: Chief Planning Officer
MANR, ADP Chief Executive, Chief Technical Officer ADP, Chief Agricultural
Officer (MANR), ADP Commercial Services Manager, and two representatives of
the elected State Fermers' Council. The Infrastructure Development
Sub-committee would coordinate infrastructure programs. It woull also be
chaired by the Permanent Secretary MANR. Its other members would include
the Chief Planning Officer MANR, the ADP Chief Executive, the Chief
Community Development Inspector in the Ministry of Local Government and/or
Cooperatives, the Chief Civil Engineer (Ministry of Works), and the ADP
Chief Engineer.
6.06      The ADP Management Unit (ADPMU) would have responsibility for
operating the ADP, under the policy guidelines and direction of the
Commissioner MANR, and in accordance with the conditions of the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The ADP Chief Executive would
oversee three operational divisions: (a) Agricultural and Technical
Services Division where advice on crop and livestock production, research,
seed multiplication, animal traction, veterinary services, agro-forestry
and home economics are integrated and delivered; (b) Infrastructural
Services Division comprising road works, water supply and irrigation; and
(c) Commercial Services Division comprising input supply and (external to
the ADP administration) CFAs. Establishment of the ADPMU along these lines
is a condition of disbursement (para 8.03).



-42 -
6.07      During negotiations, it was further agreed that ADPMU would have
five support units: (i) administration; (ii) finance; (iii) planning; (iv)
monitoring and evaluation; and (v) manpower development and training. Each
ADP would have an Executive Management Committee chaired by the ADP Chief
Executive, and consisting of all ADP Heads of Departments and Zonal
Managers; the Committee would meet at least once every month; no later than
June 30, 1989, the following senior staff would be recruited by the ADP: a
Management Accountant, an Internal Auditor, a Stores Controller, and a
Chief Maintenance Engineer, all with qualifications and experience
satisfactory t3 the Bank. The staffing levels of the ADPs have been
carefully calculated during project preparation to ensure that only
necessary staff are employed to carry out project activities. It was
agreed at negotiations that the states would ensure that the ADPs would not
exceed staffing levels to be agreed with the Bank annually without the
Bank's prior agreement (para 8.13).
6.08      Previous ADP experience has shown the need to decentralize
project activities over several zones in each state depending on the size
of its territory. Under MSADP II, Gongola ADP would have 5 zones, Kwara
ADP 5, and Niger ADP 3. Bauchi ADP already operates out of 4 zones. Each
zone would be headed by a Zonal Manager and have appropriate technical an,d
support staff. The zones would be responsible for day to day
implementation of ADP activities. A Zonal Development Committee would be
constituted in each zone to plan and review programs and to facilitate
coordination and cooperation between different agencies and farmers'
organization operating in the zone. These committees would include zonal
representatives of the ADP, LGCs, the State Farmers' Council, CFA, and
other recognized farmers' groups in the zone.
6.09      Agricultural and Technical Services.  The Agricultural and
Technical Services Division would have an Extension Unit and a Technical
Unit. The state's extension activities, which would include crop and
livestock production, agro-forestry and agriculture, agro-processing and
marketing, would be coordinated for the first time, and unified in one
structure modeled along the lines of the Training and Visit (T & V) system.
Experience with T & V in on-going ADPs has been positive on three accounts.
It has led to a streamlining of extension activities with parallel
operations minimized. T & V has also improved the linkages between farmers
and researchers which had been almost non-existent in Nigeria for many
years. Finally, by incorporting home economics specialists in the T & V
system, the ADPs have begun to address the technical needs of women farmers
who form an important part of the farm population. The most critical
agricultural service change from the ADP programs put into operation this
time wouid be the funnelling of all the advice on crop production,
livestock husbandry, agro-forestry, product processing and marketing, and
home economics through a single faucet, the Village Extension Agent (VEA).
The detailed structure, modus operandi and training regimes of the project
states' extension services are described in Working Paper 1. The Project's
technical division would provide those components of production which the
farming community needs to make effective use of the output of the
extension services. These include research activities, seed



- 43 -
multiplication, land use planning, animal traction and erosion control
programs, and advice on agro-processing.
6.10      Women in Agriculture.  The Extension and Technical Units of the
Agricultural and Technical Services Division would develop programs
focussed on increasing agricultural productivity of women home economists
or regular agents to teach women '>1rmers individually or in groups.
Agro-processing, the most common female farming activity in the middle belt
would receive priority, with the objective being to increase value-added,
generate income for women, improve nutirition, and reduce drudgery thereby
freeing labor for other tasks. Simple tools and implements in support of
this program would be sold through CSD outlets and appointed retailers.
Credit wouid be provided as needed through the CFAs.
6.11      Infrastructural SerNiices.  Each ADP would create an
Infrastructural Services Divi6ion to implement the rural roads, water
supply and irrigation programs. The D4yision would be headed by a Chief
(Maintenance) Engineer, with professional and technical support stafr.
Additional support would be provided by the Rural Infrastructure
Coordination (RIC) division of FACU and supporting consultants. To carry
out the program, RIC staff at FACU would require a Principal Engineer
(GL12) reporting to the Senior 3Rural Infrastructure Coordinator; and three
of FACU's regional offices (Benin, Jos and Kaduna) would require a Civil
Engineer (GL13) reporting to the Regional Rural Infrastructure Coordinator.
The above staff would be recruited by FACU and would have qualifications
and experience acceptable to the Bank. Because it currently lacks the
capacity to provide the level of implenentation assistance required by the
project (particularly the preparation bf road contracts), FACU would
recruit an engineering consulting team at FACU headquarters and local
engineering consultants in each state would assist the ADPs in preparing
the annual roadworks program, ensuring the rural roads selected meet
economic criteria; and where private contractors are used in preparing bid
documents, evaluating tenders and inspecting the rehabilitation work.
Draft terms of reference for the consultants have been agreed by FACU and
are provided in Working Paper 5(c). The consultants would be recruited in
1988 so that the start-up work, described in the next paragraph, could be
completed prior to project start-up, estimated for January 1, 1989. Road
works are scheduled to commence in the fourth quarter of 1989, after the
rainy season.
6.12      Each ADPMU, in consultation with LGCs in the state, would select
candidate roads for rehabilitation. The Infrastructure Division, assisted
by consultants employed by FACU, would identify the highest priority
agricultural areas to all-weather roads of state network. Those candidates
would be ranked for agricultural significance by the established FACU
procedure. An economic rate f return (ERR) would then be computed for
each road using Bank HDM3 modc l which equates benefits from reduced vehicle
operating costs against costs of road rehabilitation and maintenance over
20 years. The Infrastructure Division, with FACU's assistance, would
compile a roadworks program for each'state, identifying which roadworks
would be implemented by contract, and by force account, except in the



- 44 -
Ilorin zone of Kwara, and the Bida zone of Niger and all of Bauchi, where
residual force account units would carry out rehabilitation programs during
the remaining economic life of the equipment. Under the guidance of FACU,
the Infrastructure Division would prepare bidding documents for one or more
contracts in each state to be put to tender following World Bank guidelines
and in accord with International Conditons of Contract for Works of Civil
Engineering Construction. The preparation documents would specify
pre-qualification standards and procedures for prospective bidders, and
FACU and the consultants who may have assisted in the preparation of the
roadworks program would participate with the Infrastructure Division in the
pre-qualification procedure.
6.13      The ADPMU would no later than August 31 each year furnish to the
Bank and FACU the roadworks program detailing the methods of procurement it
will use (force account and contract) proposed for the following year. The
ADP's force account capability would be limited to the e2.isting capacity
plus additional equipment provided to create one rental unit (to LGCs) in
each ADP as agreed during negotiations (para 8.15 end Minutes of
Negotiations).
6.14      ADP reimbursement claims for contract paymants would be supported
by FACU certification that the work has iŽeen carried out to specification
and in accord with the contract. FACU may delegate site inspection to
consultants satisfactory to the Bank at its discretion. It was agreed
during negotiations that the economic viability of the force account
activity would be reviewed annually by the ADPs, FACU and the Bank and the
units would be disbanded and equipment auctioned off when they become
uneconomic. FACU would design and supervise the monitoring/review exercise
to the Bank's satisfaction. The ADP would share the results of the
comparisons with the Bank not later than December 31, 1990 (para 8.14).
All ADP professional engineering staff would attend training courses in
contract administration, contract management and soil testing during the
project. ARMTI would organize the courses.
6.15      A Rural Water Unit (part of the Infrastructure DivisiM,I) headed
by a Principal Water Engineer and supported by Zonal Water Engineers would
implement the rural water program. The unit would work with the extension
staff and LGCs to identify target communities who would be selected based
on their willingness to contribute to part of the capital cost of the
installation and all of the recurrent costs. Before the rural water and
small scale irrigation programs are implemented, the ADPs would conduct
feasibility studies, and submit the findings of these studies to the Bank
for review and comment. The rural water unit, assisted by FACU, would
prepare tender documents for borehole construction and handpump procurement
which would follow ICB guidelines. In parallel with construction of
improved or new w.ter supply schemes, a Rural Water Supply Maintenance
Coordinator would assist with the formation of village or community groups
(Water Users' Associations - WUAs) to manage the water supply facilities.
The group leaders would raise funds, allocate work within the groups, and
engage local (so-called "bush") mechanics for maintenance. The coordinator
would train such mechanics and advise communities of their availability.



- 45 -
It was agreed at negotiations that Gongola and Kwara ADPs would prepare for
Bank review by June 30, 1989, a plan for carrying out the proposed rural
water supply scheme which would: (i) provide additional criteria on which
villages would be selected to participate in the program; and (ii) indicate
how much of a capital contribution (minimum 10%) each is to make to the
cost of the well/pump and over what timeframie the contribution would be
made. It was further agreed at negotiations that Niger, Kwara and Gongola
would each establish and maintain at least five pilot water user
associations for irrigation development; and develop and furnish to the
Bank by June 30, 1989 for its review and comment their proposals for the
structure and operating procedures of the associations (para 8.19).
Finally, it was agreed that by June 30, 1990, the Gongola and Kwara ADPs
would submit for review by the Bank, a mainteu,ance plan demonstrating how
the wells/handpumps to be provided under the project are to be maintained
on a self-sustaining basis, for review by the bank (para 8.16).
6.16      Commercial Agricultur4l Services.  Distribution of agricultural
inputs would be handled by semi-autonomous CSDs. They would be operated on
strictly commercial terms, with explicit state/ADP contributions to
subsidies or financing of items to be sold on non-commercial terms. The
CSDs would aim to achieve a reasonable return on total assets (RTA) net of
their total costs including overheads and inventories, with assets valued
at replacement costs, consistent with the objective of promoting the role
of the private sector in retailing input supplies. They would scale their
operations and set their pricing policies in conformity with this
objective. Each CSD would operate only one farm service center (FSC) per
LGC. Beginning January 1991, each such FSC would operate as a wholesale
outlst through which it would sell inputs to buyers (private retailers and
cooperatives) who would sell in outlying areas.
6.17      An important institutional development objective of the project,
which is partially aimed at ensuring the sustainability of input supply
services, is the gradual privatization of the CSDs, whether through joint
equity participation or out-right sale to the private sector or well
functioning cooperatives. This is in conformity with the general direction
of Federal/state agricultural policy. Therefore, discussions would be held
between each s. te and the Bank at the Mid-Term Review (paras 6.24 and
8.04) on the (a) prospects and procedures for shareholding arrangement for
the independent successor(s) of the CSD; (b) the modalities for
shareholding and management control; and (c) a monitorable implementation
schedule. There are several possibilities for achieving the above
objective. One possibility which could attract the participation of
priv4te interests would be for the state government to hold minority shares
(say about 20%) indirectly, such as through a holding company or the ADP.
The rest of the shares couLd be held by input retailers in the state,
farmers' organizations such as Farmers' Unions, CFAs and cooperatives, and
a large private firm with expertise in input or agricultural trade. The
private firm with trading expertise could be responsible for managing the
farm supply company (FASCOM). Private retailers and cooperatives could pay
for their shares through a charge on the purchase price of inputs supplied
by the CSD or FASCOM. The managing company could acquire its shares



- 46 -
through a profit-sharing arrangement. The FASCOMs could recruit
internationally a General Manager to help formulate and implement the
corporate proposals as well as the promotion of private retailers.
6.18      The assistance to the CFAs would consist of technical assistance
and training for CFA staff in banking, project appraisal and supervision,
and rural savings mobilization; equipment (including microcomputers), and
vehicles; and a long-term line of credit to Bauchi CFA of US$1.6 million.
Should suitable locally-recruited candidates be unavailable, the project
provides for international recruitment of a General Manager for Kwara,
Gongola and Niger CFAs, and a Banking Operations Manager for Bauchi CFA.
Each CFA would agree with the Bank on an action program towards financial
and operational viability prior to disbursements taking place, including
qualifications of management and Board of Directors (see Annex 5-3).
Continued support from the Bank under the project would be contingent upon
satisfactory performance reviews by the Bank during the Mid-Term Review
(paras. 4.26 and 8.24).
6.19      Training and Manpower Development.  The project would put in
place programs which meet the management requirements of ADPs. A
systematic in-service program to reflect emerging changes in technology and
policy would be amplified by regular courses for technical staff about once
every three years and administrators every five years. The highest
priority for training would be aimed at strengthening management capacity
of senior staff. In-house and external (including overseas) courses for
management development would be instituted f r all management staff.
6.20      Monitoring and Evaluation.  The Monitoring and Evaluation
division in each ADP would be responsible for project evaluation, with the
technical guidance of APMEPU for survey work. The work of this unit would
be to:
(a) design and implement a monitoring and evaluation system to reveal
the pace of project implementation;
(b) conduct basic farm inventory surveys to serve as the bench-marks
for subsequent project impact ass,ssment;
(c) implement an annual field survey program to assess the project's
impact on beneficiaries;
(d) with the help of consultants devise and implement a staff
incentive program related to (c); and
(e) conduct special surveys on specific constraints to agricultural
productivity which arise during implementation.
6.21      In addition to annual surveys the evaluation process would
comprise two major events: the Mid-Term Review to be conducted by FACU
(for FGN), the states and the Bank at the end of 1990 (paras 6.23-6.25);
and the Project Completion Review (by APMEPU) at the end of the project



- 47 -
period. The Mid-Term Review would provide a basis to decide whether and
how the project should proceed to a second phase, and the additional
programs that would be financed within,the definition of the project.
6.22      FACU Support.  FACU would help the ADPs in Gongola, Kwara and
Niger to organize statewide activities through Program Facilitation Teams
(PFT) comprising FACU staff and consultants (Bauchi ADP, already statewide,
would not need these services). The PFTs would work in each state for a
period of three months helping to establish the management structure,
personnel and accounting systems and the first year's work program. FACU's
second role would be to assist the ADPs during project implementation.
Each regional office is staffed with technical staff who would provide
support for: (i) reorganizing the extension services and setting up the
adaptive research program; (ii) planning, reviewing and certifying
acceptability of work done on the rural roads program; (iii) preparing
annual work programs; and (iv) assisting with manpower development and
procurement. FACU would provide members of ADPECs and would join World
Bank supervision missions.
C.   Mid-Term Review
6.23      Performance Criteria.  To ensure improved sustainability (after
project completion) of financial commitments, service and commercial
institutions, and of functions which must remain in the state MANR, the
project includes a component to support planning and an institutional
review of the MANR, ADP and key agricultural parastatals. More
importantly, the project es.ablishes a close relationship between the level
of Bank-FGN financial support under the project after the Mid-Term Review
to each state's performance in:
(a) strengthening the MANR's sector policy formulation and planning
capacity and process;
(b) improving the productivity of its agricultural sector public
expenditures (for example by disengaging from direct production
and distribution of agricultural produce and inputs,
restructuring loss-making essential agricultural parastatals, and
by maintaining a satisfactory level and share of operating funds
in MANR recurrent budgets);
(c) strengthening its sector expenditure programming and
implementation capacity and process;
(d) completing and implementing the results of the Review of
Agricultural Institutions, which is partially aimed at
eliminating duplication, specifically between the MANR and the
ADP;
(e) commercialization and privatization of ADP CSDs;



- 48 -
(f)  improving the capacity of LGCs in maintaining existing ADP-funded
agricultural supporting services and physical infrastructures
such as boreholes, and feeder roads (including contributions and
participation by beneficiaries, and introduction of user charges
and other fees to supplement dedicated accounts).
6.24      These performance criteria directly address the long-term
sustainability issues and determine the project's overall success. It was
agreed that they would collectively constitute the monitorable overall
performance criteria and, in addition to other project specific covenants,
will be the major subject of the Mid-Term Review (para 8.04). Within this
framework, the Bank will determine eligibility of each state for additional
programs to be included in this project as priorities and circumstances
warrant. An additional US$20.5 million has been included to meet the costs
of such agriculturdl expenditure programs of the project states. The
decision to finance additional agricultural programs in the states will be
conditional upon satisfactory Mid-Term Reviews, and agreement on items to
be financed in relation to the priorities, quality and level of state
agricultural expenditure programs (para 8.05). The funds would likely be
used bv the states to supplement priority long-term agricultural
development programs (such as animal disease control, small-scale
irrigation, completion of viable medium-scale irrigation projects, planning
surveys, agro-forestry, soil conservation, and adaptive research) which are
already included in the development budgets.
6.25      The funds unutilized due to ineligibility of some states or
failure to agree on the sector state expenditure program would be
cancelled.
D.   Implentation of ARMTI Component
6.26      ARMITI is organized as a semi-autonomous parastatal which reports
to a Board of Governors.  It is headed by a Director, and guided by a Board
which includes representatives from FMAWRRD, ADPs, RBDAs, state MANRs,
universities and the private sector. As a result of long-term technical
assistance, training programs and successful local recruitment, ARMTI is
now managed by Nigerians. A need for specialized technical assistance
still remains however and ARMTI maintains long-term faculty exchange and
twinning arrangements with several overseas institutions. Under the
proposed project ARMTI would both consolidate its existing programs and
start several new programs, several of them specifically related to the
needs of the MSADP II states.
E.   Project Status
6.27      The ADPEC's and ADPMUs exist in all project states.  Some
additions would be needed in the present composition of the ADPECs to
reflect project agreements. The rapid impact of consolidated extension
service would be critical to project success, and it would therefore be
necessary for the states to effect the consolidation of the service (i.e.
bring staff of animal husbandry, forestry, processing and marketing, and



- 49 -
home economics under the ADPs umbrellas) without delay. Simultaneously,
staff currently employed by the ADPs who would not take part in the project
would be taken off the ADPs' establishments.
F.   Environmental Considerations
6.28      The project's potential for harming the environment could come
from four sources: (i) over-exploitation of acquifers as a result of rural
water supply and small-scale irrigation programs; (ii) the inappropriate
use of agricultural chemicals; (iii) reducing fallow; and (iv) soil erosion
resulting from sub-standard road rehabilitation or maintenance works. The
project would take steps to avoid these problems. Before the small scale
irrigation and rural water supply programs are started, each state would
carry out a study of its underlying acquifer. Each annual program would
take account of the study's findings as to how large an area can be tapped
without harming the acquifer. The initial scale of the proposed program is
so small that there is little risk under the project. On the issue of
chemicals and possible toxicity, each state MANR, and specifically each
state's extens'on service, would inform FACU of products which are
currently in use. IACU would then inform each MANR which of these products
are considered unsafe (based on World Bank guidelines) and these messages
would be passed to farmers. The ADP's Chief Technical Officer (CTO) would
have direct responsibility to coordinate action to prohibit sale of harmful
chemicals within each state. The several livestock tenets of the project
would be directed to soil conservation and fertility improvement and would
therefore address (iii) above.
6.29      The project's animal traction component would be expected to have
a positive impact on the environment. Integration of livestock in the
farming system would increase the organic material within the soil, both
from the rotation of leguminous crops with cereals and from incorporation
of animal manures. This would result in the reduction or elimination of
wind and water erosion, the addition of soil nutrients and, in particular,
improvement in the water and nutrient holding capacity of the soil. The
main thrust of the Mambilla Plateau program would be to reverse on-going
erosion by improving animal grazing practices, by planting trees and
resilient grasses on contours and by fencing small cattle exclusion areas
to permit plant regeneration. The project's pilot work on alley farming
would, where it is successful, introduce a farming system with great
potential for soil improvement. The project's effect on availability of
animal drugs and mobility of veterinary services would: (a) decrease animal
mortality and so increase the number of animals available for crop and
livestock integration; and (b) extend the geographical area where cattle,
particularly work bulls, could be kept protected from trypanasomiasis by
chemotherapy. The extension program would also promote farm-forestry which
would lower the impact of wind erosion.
6.30      Finally, with regard to roads, private contractors LGCs and ADPs
would undertake their works to specified standards agreed with FACU and the
Bank. If any of them failed to meet these standards, they would be
declared ineligible for further Bank funded work.



- 50 -
VII. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Demand, Markets and Prices
7.01      Demand.  Nigeria is a net importer of food, and while indications
are that total food production probably kept pace with population growth
over the past decade, this does not allow much for an increase in per
capita consumption that could be associated with increasing incomes.
Furthermore, recent policies of the Federal Government (particularly import
bans and devaluation of the naira, both of which have limited the
availability of cheap imports) have increased the demand for the staple
foods which form the bulk of agricultural production arising from the
project's initiatives. The current demand for foodgrains in Nigeria is
estimated at 17 million tons. The projected annual incremental production
is in the fourth project year estimated at 140,000 tons, of which
foodgrains would be 82,000 tons (Working Paper 9). It represents less than
1% of the estimated 20-22 million tons of projected national demand in
1992, and is expected to be easily absorbed within the project states.
7.02      Markets.  The food crop marketing system in the project states is
dominated by small private traders and'farmers. The system is relatively
competitive and efficient, but lack of,information within and between
markets, inadequate storage facilities and high transportation costs often
result in very high spatial price differentials and seasonal variations.
The provision of market information by the CSD in each LGA would help
farmers improve their market information and identify market outlets for
any occasional marketable surpluses. The program of road improvement would
help the movement of crops from farm to market where such facilites are
lacking.
7.03      Prices.  Food prices in Nigeria have increased at a higher rate
than inflation over the past decade, especially for root crops, albeit with
pronounced spatial, seasonal and year-to-year. variations (see para 2.12,
2.13 and 7.02 above). The devaluation of the.naira since 1986 has removed
the major source of distortion between econom'ic and financial prices of
most agricu'tural products, but a fair amount of distortion still exists,
caused by import bans (para 2.07), and to a lesser extent, fertiliser
subsidies (para 2.08). Financial and economic farmgate prices in the
project states used in the economic and financial analysis are derived from
data gathered during the appraisal mission in November 1897, projected to
1989, and assumed to remain constant thereafter until 1992. These are
detailed in Working Paper 9. Notwithstanding the high level of fertiliser
subsidy and the protection accorded to major cereals by import bans, the
data indicate fairly low nominal protection coefficients (NPCs) for some
major tradeable cereals: 0.98 for maize; and 1.0 for rice. This is partly
because of the domestic protection ptovided'to major inputs. But until
1986, the level of protection accorded to all the major foodgrains was
generally above 200%. For example, in Gongola and Kwara in 1986, the
average farmgate price of maize was 590 and 560 naira per ton respectively
(at that time equivalent to US$590 and 560 per ton respectively), compared



- 51 -
with an estimated import parity price of US$239 per ton. Similarly, paddy
rice sold for 1,520 and 1,200 naira per ton in Gongola and Kwara
respectively, compared with an import parity price of naira 172 (US$172)
per ton. Nevertheless, these high levels of protection represented
reductions in the level of protection from over 300% in 1984.
7.03      Analytical Assumptions.  For purposes of financial and economic
analysis, the following basic assumptions have been made: (i) the
opportunity cost of capital is 12%; (ii) for non-tradeable outputs,
domestic retail prices are adjusted to border values using a standard
conversion factor (SCF) of 0.85 for 1989-90 and 0.92 thereafter; (iii) land
is not a constraint in the project stat:-; (iv) labor is a constraint; (v)
labor availability is uniform throughout the year at 750 mandays per adult
equivalent 15/ (vi) demand for labor varies seasonally, and is reflected in
the ruralj wage rate, which averages 5 naira per day; (vii) the fertiliser
subsidy is assumed to be phased out over a four year period, beginning at
50% in 1989, 40% in 1990, 30% in 1991, and 0% in 1992; (viii) except for
fertilizers, agricultural input prices will continue to reflect import
parity prices in financial terms; (ix) the economic prices of fertilizers
remain constant throughout the project period (1989-1992); (x) the current
relative price regime is maintained throughout the project period.
7.04       A 5 percent net average adoption rate is assumed by project year
4 for estimating the production effect oi the extension program. This
means that by year 4 in each agro-ecological zone, 5% of the farm families
on average adopt the new farming technologies promoted by the project.
Thereafter, production is assumed to grow at 5% p.a., slightly faster than
population.  This assumed growth rate 's consistent wI'th that experienced
in other areas after the completion of ADPs (para 2.19). The impact of
farm inputs, irrigation, and fertilizer has been related to the incremental
yield. Useful nutrients assumed to be available from appropriate
fertilizer is 35 kg per 100kg. The incremental production for each
kilogram of fertilizer nutrient used is estimated as follows: maize 5 kg;
sorghum (northern project areas) 3 kg; sorghum (southern project areas) 4
kg; millet 3 kg; groundnut 2.5 kg; rice 6 kg; cowpea 1.5 kg; and yam 14 kg.
The incremental production from one kg of improved seed (one of the
project's main initiatives) is assumed to be: maize 10 kg; sorghum
(northern project areas) 10 kg; sorghum (southern project areas) 8 kg;
millet 8 kg; rice 10 kg; cowpea 1.5 kg; and groundnuts 50 kg. The amount
of seed required per ha. is: maize 15-20 kg; sorghum 10 kg; millet 7 kg;
15/  There are an estimated 1.1 million farm families in the project states
(0.5 million in Gongola, 0.3 million in Kwara and Niger each), with 3
adult equivalent units of labor (2 full adults and 4 children
providing the labor equivalent of one adult). The rural labor market
in Nigeria is distorted. The prevailing rural wage rate is higher
than the marginal product of labor in agriculture measured in product
prices.



- 52 -
rice 60 kg; cowpea 20 kg; and groundnuts 50 kg. Sprayers are depreciated
over three years, and water pumps over two years. The crop yields "with"
and "without" improved technology are assumed to remain constant, with the
former at a higher level.
7.05      A typical fadama farmer in the project states has 6 ha of
cultivable land, but cultivates only 3 ha. He irrigates only 1 ha during
the dry season if a pump is available, and 0.5 ha if none is available.
The most prevalent crops grown on fadama are rice and high value vegetables
such as onions and tomatoes.
B.   Financial Analysis
7.06      Farm Incomes.  The focus here is on the benefits to participating
farm families, which have been evaluated in terms of benefit-cost-ratios
(BCRs) on use of inputs and improved technology promoted by the project.
For this purpose, increased inputs use is equated with increased yields and
better farming practices. Therefore, the benefits of the agricultural
component has been related to input use rather than to what might happen on
a given area of land. This approach is particularly appropriate for the
mixed cropping systems which predominate in the project states, and for
which an estimate of the yield of any one crop poses considerable problems.
7.07      In order to assess the farmers' financial incentive to adopt the
technology recommendations of the project, analysis was made of the
profitability of adoption of the recommended technologies on six farm
models which have been constructed to depict the income effect on a
representative farmer from each ecological zone of the project area, with
the improved technology (Annex 6). jAn interesting result is that all the
scenarios show a higher profitability once the improved technology is
adopted, ranging from 9.8% higher (under Model 4) to 83% higher under
fadama irrigation (Model 3). The financial rate of return (FRR) for the
fadama irrigation component is estimated at 27%.
7.08      Commercial Services.  With regard to farm inputs, the analysis of
the financial viability of CSDs (which excludes fertilizer operations)
assumes that there will be no official price control on farm inputs sales
prices charged by CSDs or retailers, as was agreed during loan
negotiations, and that the CSD wouldibe able to charge wholesale market
prices to its retailers. A wholesale profit mark-up of 20% is assumed on
the ex-warehouse replacement inventory cost. This is a reasonable
provision, given the need to finance future growth requirements and build
up an adequate capital base to withstand potential losses. The volume
sales of the CSDs are assumed to grow at 5% per annum throughout the
project period. A financial analysis of the CSD operations using projected
market prices to estimate revenues, indicates that a 20% mark-up on the
inventory replacement cost is required in order for the CSD in Gongola to
obtain a Return on Total Assets (RTA) of 5% in 1989, 6% in 1990 and 1991,
and 11% in 1992. Similar margins are required for the CSDs in Kwara and
Niger for identical RTAs.



- 53 -
C.   Federal/State Financial Implications
7.09      The project would generate little direct Federal or State
government revenue, as farmers' output is not taxed directly. Some
indirect public revenue generation can be expected as the project increases
the level of economic activity in the states, but precise quantification is
not possible. The Federal and State governments would, therefore, need to
sustain not only their contributions during the project investment period,
but also project activities thereafter. This burden falls nearest on the
states since they would pick up the annual costs of the ADPs after the
project investment period. FGN would be responsible for maintaining ARMTI
and FACU.
7.10      State Financial Capability.  The financial condition of the
project States is generally weak. The latest available information (from
the 1986 Annual Report of the Central Bank of Nigeria) on the overall
finances of each of the project states covers the period 1984-86. It
indicates the following: (a) total expenditures have increased by only 3%
in nominal terms, and actually declined for Bauchi, and Kwara; (b) Niger
has the smallest budget of the four states; (c) on average, the states
finance 20% of their expenditures, ranging from a high of 37% (Kwara in
1986) to a low of 9% (Niger in 1985); and (d) apart from Bauchi, the
project states had overall deficits in their budgets for all the three
years under review. The financial status of states has improved
significantly over the past year due to increased Federal transfers.
7.11      Sector Expenditure.  Sector expenditure data are hard to come by,
but an impression can be gained from the series of National Development
Plans, summarized in para. 20 of Annex 3. The data indicates that the
project states spend an average of 12% of their public expenditures on
agriculture. This small percentage however represents about 50% of the
state's expenditure on economic services. ADPs are the main agricultural
expenditure of the states, and in some states, they are synonym.ous with the
sector budget itself. To the extent that it was feasible to do,
incremental financial obligations of the states arising from this project
during implementation and immediately thereafter are summarized in the
table below. The estimates assume that the states bear all the emolument
costs associated with the project during implementation, and include
external loans and contributions from the Federal Government. The project
represents a N119.0 million (200%) increase in their total annual
agricultural expenditures over the latest fiscal year for which data is
available. After project completion, the states would assume additional
recurrent cost obligations amounting to N22.9 million per annum.



- 54 -
Incremental State Annual Expenditures (N Million)
Mi       (ii)     (lti)       (iv)       (v)    (vi)
Expenditure      Niger    Gongola   Bauchi    Before   During  After
Categor           (1987)    (1985)   (1988)    Project  Project Project
Total           8.2       17.3      35.4       60.8    180.0 16/ 71.9
Recurrent       5.7       14.3      26.9       46.9     63.8      69.8
Capital         2.5        3.0       8.4       13.9    110.2      36.0
Recurrent:
- Personnel     5.1       13.2       9.0       27.3     32.5      32.5
- Overhead      0.6        1.1      17.9       19.6     37.3      37.3
Source:  Mission estimates from various state annual budget reports.
7.12      The percentages and magnitudes of the incremental expenditures
are such that they could only be met from the states' own resources after
project completion, if the measures proposed under the project (para. 6.23)
are implemented vigorously. The measures are expected to result in the
following revenue enhancements and cost reductions: (a) the productivity
of sector public sector expenditures would be increased, through
restructuring and other reforms; (b) user charges may reduce the
expenditures on capital development and maintenance; (c) revenue and net
income covenants for CSDs might reduce state subsidies; (d) road
maintenance costs are expected to be reduced if private contractors replace
ADP force account operations; (e) expenditures on extension may be reduced
significantly following the unification of services, which would eliminate
duplication; (f) the Review of Agricultural Insitutions may recommend
institutional reforms and other measures which may reduce duplication and
parastatal costs/losses; (g) t1s overall scale of sector expenditures might
be reduced, although this is not very likely since savings from revenue
measures and restructuring would probably be applied to other priority
expenditures; and (h) the risks of the states incurring unsupportable
expenditures as a result of poor implementation of this project would be
monitored closely, and losses would be cut early, through the Mid-Term
Review.
7.13      Implications for the Federal Budget.  FGN's contributions to
MSADP II States, FACU and ARMTI, including ARMTI's pre-project recurrent
expenditure, would be U$$17 imillion during project implementation, and
decrease to US$0.4 mn t4ereafter.  They  amount to less than 10% of the
projected level of Fedeial capital expenditure for agriculture. This
amount would be consistent with the overall level of budgetary resources
that the Bank has recommended FMAWRRD allocate annually to the national ADP
program. Considering the total size and composition of the Federal budget,
16/ Four year average expenditure. Assumes that ADP agricultural
expenditures represent 80% of state agricultural capital expenditures.



- 55 -
this appears to be reasonable, especially if one assumes that the
productivity of existing sectoral allocations could be increased by at
least 5%. 17/
D.   Economic Analysis 18/
7.14      Economic Rate of Return.  An average adoption rate (for the
project's extension message) of 3% is required for the project to achieve a
12% internal rate of return.  A 5% adoption rate has been assumed however;
and based on that assumption, and assuming constant relative prices, the
project is expected to result in an annual increase in food production at
the end of the fourth year of about 140,000 tons including 82,000 tons of
grain, 9,000 tons of cassava, 6,000 tons of groundnuts, 14,000 tons of
vegetables (from irrigation), 7,500 tons of seed-cotton, and 5,000 tons of
yam. If a higher (say 15%) adoption rate is assumed, the project's
production effect increases to 250,000 tons of grain, while overall tonnage
increases to 420,000 tons. The 5% adoption rate is considered to be more
realistic and consistent with the record of older ADPs. On that basis,
ERRs have been estimated for the project as whole at 17%, and for each
statewi4e ADP as follows: Gongola 24%, Kwara 22% and Niger 5%. The
analysis is done over a 20-year period and includes all project economic
(incremental) costs. It also assumes that investment costs of the project
cease after the fourth year, and that recurrent expenditures in the fifth
year are equivalent to 50% of the total projects costs in the fourth year
and increase by 5% annually thereafter. The only project benefit included
is the farmgate economic value of incremental production. The sensitivity
analysis indicated that the project is relatively sensitive to cost
escalations, and to delays in benefits or implementation. A 20% cost
escalation would reduce the IRR to 12%, whereas a two year lag in benefits
would also reduce the IRR to 11%.
E.  Benefits and Risks
Benefits
7.15      Summary.  The project's overriding benefit would come from its
initiatives to streamline the structure of state agricultural institutions,
and to improve the quality, availability and sustainability of agricultural
services. These initiatives can be summarized as follows:
(a) Under the project the capacity of the state MANRs for policy
formulation, planning and expenditure budgeting would be
strengthened, and a major Review of Agricultural Institutions
17/ see: Nigeria: Public Expenditure Review, World Bank, Draft February
8, 1988.
18/ For detailed economic analysis, see Working Paper 8.



- 56 -
would introduce reforms to make the services more efficient an_
sustainable over the long-term. The recommended organizational
changes coming out of the Review would be introduced during the
course of the project.
(b) The project would unify and strengthen state agricultural
extension services and establish the vital link between research,
extension and farmers. The unification of the extension service
around the T & V system would reduce the number of parallel
services. By strengthening the management systems for these
services, the project would have a positive effect on the
productivity of the large current expenditures.
(c) The adaptive research program would be strengthened to work with
existing farming systems to find improvements in practices that
could then be passed through the extension service.
(d) The seeds program would improve the reliability and availability
of local certified seed.
i
(e) By promoting the role of the private sector in the distribution
of agricultural inputs, seeds, roadworks, rural water and
irrigation development and maintenance the project would improve
the efficiency of distribution, development and maintenance,
minimize costs and develop long-term sustainability.
(f) The credit program would strengthen the capacity of farmers'
institutions (CFAs) to enable farmers to increase savings and
obtain credit to acquire the inputs need to shift to higher
productivity technologies.
7.16      Fadama Irrigation.  An estimated 13,200 ha of additional fadama
(flood-plain) will be brought under small-scale irrigation through the
project. Although this is a significant increase in the irrigated acreage
in the project states, it is less than 1% of the estimated fadama
development potential of any of the project states. The additional
irrigated acreage has an incremental output potential of 56,000 tons, of
which 28,000 tons is expected to be equally divided between rice and high
value vegetables each. The ERR for the fadama irrigation sub-project is
estimated at 49%.
7.17      Roads.  The project will rehabilitate or maintain 11,460 km of
rural roads in the project states (4670 km in Niger, 4390 km in Kwara, and
2400 km in Gongola). Several approaches to determining the economic
viability of rural road investments are available. For the purposes of
evaluating of the rural roads program in this project (18% of costs) the
consumer surplus method which stresses the quantification of vehicle
operating cost savings has been chosen as the most suitable approach.  A
discussion of the methodology and detailed project assumptions are provided
in Working Paper 6. Employing this methodology, a random sample of rural
roads in the project area was monitored for a weekly period during



- 57 -
preparation to determine average daily traffic counts (ADTCs). More than
60% of these rural roads had ADTCs of 25 vehicles per day or greater which
is the cut off point for a 15% ERR given the project's estimated cost of
upgrading and maintainirLg one km of rural road (N40,000), an assumed 5%
p.a. growth in traffic volume, and vehicle operating cost savings per km of
NO.8 19/. Since the project's rural roads program would cover less than
20% of the rural roads in the project states, the program also falls within
the envelope of rural roads which are estimated to have sufficient traffic
to justify improvements. While the analysis clearly under-estimates the
ERR of the road component in that it ignores the potentially more
significant producer surplus generated, it clearly indicates that the
proposed roads investments can stand on their own economic merit. The
roads component yields very high returns, reflecting the fact that the
roads component protects a very large sunk investment at relatively modest
costs. Detailed ADTCs and estimated improvement costs would be undertaken
for each road prior to its selection to ensure that all roads upgraded
under the project meet acceptable economic criteria.
7.18      An important project benefit would be the assistance given to the
LGCs foi routine, labor-intensive rural road maintenance. Not only would
this approach be the least-cost solution to routine maintenance, but it
would also be institutionally correct, given the LGCs' statutory
responsibility for rural road maintenance. Helping to improve the
management and organizational structure of the LGCs would meet an important
long-term project objective of developing a sustainable local structure for
providing services to the agricultural sector.
7.19      Water.  The project will build or rehabilitate 1800 boreholes and
wells (900 each in Kwara and Gongola). The average installation costs of
each borehole is US$12,500. The investment in the borehole is assumed to
have an economic life of 20 years and annual maintenance costs per borehole
are assumed to be US$1,250 (10% of the investment costs). The economic
analysis of the rural water component assumes that one borehole or well
serves 400 families per day for 365 days a year. A beneficiary farm family
is assumed to have 6.5 members, each of whom requires 15 litres for
domestic use per day. A nominal economic value of US$0.1 per 1000 litres
has been assumed. Thus, each borehole produces water with an estimated
economic value of US$1,423.5 per year. The ERR estimated on that basis for
the rural water component is 8%, which is acceptable considering that the
analysis does not take into account other benefits such as improved health,
the value of trees and crops planted around boreholes or wells, or animals
watered. The inclusion of these benefits would put the ERR over the 12%
cut-off rate. The cost per rural family is estimated at US$12.8, which is
within the range of costs of similar projects in Sub-Saharan Africa. The
19/ The methodology is further detailed in "Economic Appraisal of Rural
Roads", a World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 610, October 1983, by
H.L. Beenhakker and A.M. Lago.



- 58 -
project's rural water component (16% of costs) would provide signif'cant
social benefits (improved health). Although health benefits and time
savings have not been quantified, Bank sector work has indicated that major
investments in rural water supply in Nigeria are warranted and can be
justified on the basis of time savings alone, estimated at two hours per
day for every farm family. 20/
7.20      ARMTI.  The investment in ARMTI (5% of costs) would significantly
benefit the agricultural sector. Already ARMTI has demonstrated its
success in providing management training to several thousand Nigerians
across a broad spectrum. Agricultural and rural management training
requirements remain extensive and new areas - LGC rural infrastructure
management, women in agriculture, distance learning to name a few - need
attention. Under the project ARTrI would expard its physical plant to
accommodate more students and launch new programs strategically targetted
to the sector's perceived needs.
Risks.
7.21 i   The difficulties involved in efforts to unify the agricultural
extension system, streamline its operations and establish an efficient and
effective operation pose the greatest risks to the agricultural program.
The project would counter these by developing a wage incentive scheme to
motivate extension officers and by improving their training and mobility.
FACU's strengthened cadre of extension specialists would continue to help
ensure that an efficient extension structure is established based on
Nigerian experience.  The primary risk of the infrastructure program would
be failure to maintain project investments. Such risks are minimized by
project assistance to strengthen the capability of the LGC's, who have the
institutional responsibility to maintain rural roads, and by selection of
communities for rural water investments according to their willingness to
contribute to construction and maintenance costs. The project would also
train village water supply mechanics who would then offer their services to
communities on a fee basis. The main risk with the commercial services
program is possible failure or slow progress in privatization of input
supply operations. This risk is reduced to some extent by the provision of
only one year's import requirements (and subsequently, only incremental
requirements) for the CSDs under the project, which would limit the major
advantage (access Lo foreign exchange for imports) that CSDs would enjoy
over their competition; limitation of CSD operations to wholesale
activities only after 1989; and the requirement for market pricing of farm
inputs sold by CSDs. The primary risk of the project management component
would be failure to obtain commitment of respective parties to strengthen
financial, stores and maintenance management in ADPs. The risks are
somewhat reduced by the provision of techniLal assistance, the financial
20/ Nigeria: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Memorandum, Request
No. 6203-UNI, September 30, 1986, Annex 2-2, para 20.



- 59 -
covenants relating to approval of annual procurement plans, and
strengthening of internal audit.  However, the risks cannot altogether be
eliminated. The main risks to the state MANR program would be delay or
failure of the Institutional Review to take off. The risk is accommodated
by the internalization of the Review process, FGN and state, and the
involvement of the highest authorities in the states to steer the Review.
Risks associated with ARMTI include inaccurate identification of sector
training needs and its failure to retain qualified trainers. ARMTI's
in-house evaluation unit p'lus its regular planning sessions with FACU and
feedback from ADr managers should minimize the former. Attrition has not
posed a problem in the past and in any event, ARMTI would be able to
recruit qualified replacements from the large pool of qualified trainers in
Nigeria.
VIII. ASSURANCES AND AGREEMENTS
During negotiations, the following agreements were reached
between Bank and the representatives of Gongola, Kwara, Niger States and
the Federal Government.
A.   Condition of Loan Effectiveness
8.01      Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  At least one state would have
concluded a subsidiary loan agreement with the Federal Government (para
5.10).
B.   Conditions of Disbursements to States
8.02      Redeployment of Redundant Staff.  The states would unify and
consolidate the extension services. This would require the removal of
redundant staff who would not be needed for the implementation of the
project from the payrolls of ADPs (paras 4.07, 5.10).
8.03      lhe state government would have established the ADP Management
Unit and appointed a Financial Controller (paras 4.29, 5.10 and 6.06).
C.   Condition for Disbursement for Additional Programs (Disbursement
Category 9)
8.04      Mid-Term Review Completed.  The Review of the project would have
been completed, and the Bank would have determined that (i) project
implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, and the overall benefit cost
ratio is likely to be positive at project completion; and more specifically
(ii) state has met all the conditions specified in para 6.23 and 6.24.
8.05      Agreement on Sector Development Programs.  Agreement on the
additional sector programs eligible for financing which are within the
definition of this project (para 6.24).



- 60 -
1).  Condition for Disbursement to ARMTI and Bauchi CFA
8.06      ARMTI would discontinue its farm project and divested itself of
the tractors and equipment purchased for that purpose (para 4.38).
8.07      Bauchi CFA would submit satisfactory plans to the Bank showing
how its plans, policies and uperations would assure it financial and
operational viability during the project period (para 4.26).
E.   Review of Agricultural Institutions
8.08      Each state would recruit an Agricultural Institutions Review Team
by June 30, 1989. The team would consist of at least a public
administration expert (Team Leader), a state finances expert, a financial
analyst, and an agricultural services expert (para 4.32).
8.09      The Review Team would complete its work no later than December
31, 1989 (para 4.33).
F.   Monitoring & Evaluation
8.10      Monitoring and Evaluation.  FACU would conduct the Mid-Term
Review of the project at the end of 1990 jointly with the Bank and state,
and APMEPU would conduct a Completion Review at the end of the project
(paras. 5.16 and 6.24).
8.11      Submission of Workplans and Reports.  The state MANRs (Planning
Department only), ADPs, CFAs and ARMTI would each submit survey results,
annual reports or accounts, annual workplans and quarterly progress reports
to the Bank and FGN for review and comment (paras 4.09, 4.13, 4.21, 4.30,
4.35, 5.14, 5.15).
G.   Agricultural Services
8.12      Sponsored Research.  Each state would conclude research contracts
with the relevant national research institutes, for priority research
topics, emerging from the MTRMs, which would be acceptable to the Bank by
June 30, 1989 (para 4.10).
8.13      Limitations on ADP Staff Levels.  The states would ensure that
the ADPs would not exceed the staffing levels agreed with the Bank annually
(para 6.07).
H.   Rural Infrastructure
8.14      Economic Viability of Force Account.  The economic viability of
force account would be reviewed by the ADPs and compiled by FACU annually
and be ready for review by the Bank by December 31, 1990; the units would
be disbanded and equipment auctioned off when they become uneconomic (paras
4.17 and 6.14).



- 61 -
8.15      Each ADPMU would, no later than August 31 each year, furnish to
the Bank and FACU the roadworks program detailing the methods of
procurement (private contractors and force account) it will use for the
following year (paras 4.19 and 6.13).
8.16      Community Participation in Maintenance.  Gongola and Kwara ADPs
would prepare, for the Bank's review and comment by June 30, 1989, a plan
for carrying out the proposed rural water maintenance through community
participation (para 6.15).
8.17      Strengthening LGC Rural Road Maintenance Capac4ty.  The ADPs,
with FACU's assistance, and after the Bank's review, wo-.ld establish: rural
road maintenance manuals; standard ADP-LGC contract; and qualifying
criteria for LGC participation in the rural infrastructure component (on
reimbursement from the ADPs) to carry out routine maintenance of
rehabilitated roads in their jurisdictions (para 4.18).
8.18      Beneficiary Contribution to Capital Costs.  The beneficiary
community of boreholes and wells would contribute at least 10% of the
capital costs, either in cash or kind, before a borehole or well is sited
in their community (para 4.20).
8.19      Organization of Water Users' Associations (WUAs).  The states
would develop and submit to the Bank by June 30, 1989 the structure and
operating procedures for the WUAs and form at least five selected pilot
associations (paras. 4.22 and 6.15).
8.20      Comparison of Force Account versus Private Contractors.  FACU
would conduct a study comparing the cost and end product of force account
versus use of private contractors for road maintenance in the MSADP II
states and share its results with the Bank by December 31, 1989 (para 4.17
and 6.14).
I.   Commercial Services
8.21      Seed Production and Priciri.  The ADPs would rely on contract
growers for at least 75% of seed production, and seed purchase prices paid
to outgrowers and selling prices to farmers would be at prevailing market
prices. The certification standards to be followed would be those
established by NSS (para 4.11).
8.22      Pricing of Animal Drugs and Vaccines.  Each state would charge
the full cost for all drugs and vaccines sold by its veterinary department
and the mechanism for licensing private rural veterinary practitioners
would be established after consultations with the Bank, by December 31,
1989 (para 4.14).
8.23      Pricing of Non-Fertilizer Inputs sold by CSDs:  The management of
CSDs would be allowed the lattitude to set prices for their wholesale-
level inventories at prices in order to achieve an adequate return on
assets with inventory costed at replacement value (para 4.24).



- 62 -
8.24      Privatization of Input Supply.  CSDs would limit their operations
to one wholesale store per LGA, by December 31, 1990; their supplies would
be retailed through private distr4.butors and cooperative stores (para
4.24).
8.25      Restrictions on CFA Lending Operations.  The CFAs would maintain
competitive interest rates on all their lending; maintain cost and income
structures which assure them a competitive return on assets, and not lend
for projects with repayment periods exceeding three years (para 4.26).
J.   ARMTI
8.26      Revenue Enhancement.  ARMTI would increase its fees (as opposed
to tuition) and other income to cover 20% of its operating costs, beginning
1989, and furthermore that FGN would exempt ARMTI from any regulations
which would interfere with the introduction of ARMTI's fees and other
revenue generating proposals for the duration of the project (para 4.36).
8.27      Review of ARMTI's Non-Training Activities.  The Bank, FGN and
ARMTI would review ARMTI's non-training functions and activities before
June 30, 1989 (para 4.38).



-63-
Annex I
NICERIA
Key Features of the Agricultural Sector
Unit          1974-76 Av.              1985
1. Population a/
Total (growth rate)                    million         74.9 (2.5)             96.7 (3.3)
Rural as 2 Total                           1           81.8                   77
Rural Families                           '000          13,211                 12,700
2. Economic Reviev
GDP/Head of Total Population               S          521                    794
Agric. GDP/Head of Rural
Population                                $          173                    360
Agric. GDP as 2 of Total                   Z           24                     35
3. Land Use a/
Land Area c/                           sq.km.         910.770                910,700
Forest                                 '000 ha         16,357                 14,000
Perennial Crops                         '000 ha         2,497                  2.535
Annual Crops                            '000 ha        27,503                 27,900
of Which: Area Irrigated a/            '000 ha             18                     32
69-71 Av. - 100
4. Outputs
Root Crops                                "148
Sorghum                                   .'100                                    86
Millet                                                    i11                     109
Groundnut (in shell)                      "                23                      32
Livestock
Cattle                                                   100                     108
Sheep/Goats                             ,                109                     124
Poultry                                   ~~~          ~         ~~~~~107  199
Poultr                                                   113                     163
Cereal Production/Head of                                  9                       O
Total Production                                          90                     104
Cereal/Head of Rural Population                            92                     105
5. Inputs
Fertilizer                              '000 tons         124                   n.a.
Pesticides                              '000 liters       n.a.                  n.a.
Tractors a/                               units         7,500                 10.000
6. Trade a/
Total Exports                              $ m          9,312                 12,566
Of Which:
Agricultural Products                     2                5                      3
Of Which:
Cocoa and Products                     X                68                     75
Rubber                                 S                 6                      7
Palm Produce (Kernels, oil)            S                14                      3 d/
Total Imports at                           $ m          5,670                  8,890
Of Which:
Agricultural Products                     S                8                      10
Cereals and Preparation                S                38                     61
Sugar and Honey                        2                23                   n.a.
Dairy Products and Eggs                2                19                   n.a.
Agricultural Inputs                       X                2                   n.a.
7. Government Expenditures b/
Total Recurrent Budget                     $ m          2,040                  8,400
Of Which:  Agriculture                     S                 I                      I
Total Capital Budget                       $m           5,332                  4,077
Of Which:  Agriculture                     X                2                      11.9
a/ Data for 1984 only.
bI Federal Gavernment only.
c/ Remaining land area is under permanent pasture and other land use.
d/ Kernels only.
Data Sources: (1) FAO Production, Fertilizer and Trade Yearbooks; (ii) Nigeria
Country Economic Memo (June 1987); (iii) Nigeria Agricultural Pricing Policy
Report (October 1984); (iv) Review of Public Expenditure Program in Nigeria
(October 1985); (v) EPD Data Bank; and (vi) WAlDA's Key Indicator Table of 1/86.
AF4AG
October 1987



NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Summary State Characteristics (1985)
Gongola           Kwara        Niger        GRAND TOTAL
Population (million) a/                      4.5              2.9          2.0              9.4
Rural Population (million)                   3.2              2.0           1.8             7.0
Arable Area (mn ha)                          7.12             4.5           5.1            16.7
Rural Population Density (per ha)            0.63             0.65         0.4              0.4
No. Farm Families ('000)                     500               300          300            1525
Average Family Size                          6.4               6.7          6.0             6.3
Cultivated Area ('000 ha)                    725              428          350             3403
Number of LGAs                                17                12           14              59
Source: State ADP appraisal reports prepared by FACU.
a/ Estimate for 1985 based on 1963 census with growth rate at 2.5% for rural
and 5% for urban population.
AF4AG
April 1988



-65-                           Annex 3
Page 1 of 7
NIGERIA
SECOND MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Constraints to Agricultural Development
Technology Framework
1.        Technology which can influence rural incomes in the project area
falls into six categories: (i) traditional/new crops; (ii) seed; (iii)
farm inputs; (iv) crop husbandry and tillage practices; (v) livestock
husbandry; and (vi) small scale irrigation. These are discussed separately
below.
2.        Traditional/New Crops.  There has been no recent major genetic
breakthrough in the most important crops grown in the project area. There
is no improved millet, nor is there an improved sorghum which will
out-yield local varieties and provide staking for the following yam crop.
While a short season sorghum (60 days maturity vs 120 days for the
traditional variety) was developed several years ago it proved incompatible
with the traditional mixed cropping systems - its stalks were short and not
suitable for yam staking or roofing/fencing material and it matured at the
same time as millet causing competition for sun and nutrients in the
fields. "Seed" yams are the most expensive input into yam production and
there was some hope that minisett production (i.e. use of smaller setts at
higher population density than those normally planted) would provide a
breakthrough. No stakes are made and the crop consists of large numbers of
small tubers, hence it is labor intensive at harvesting and subsequent
handling which acts as some constraint. On the positive side, IITA has
released new cassava varieties resistant to mosaic and bacterial blight and
these have shown increased yield potential over local varieties. Groundnut
seed resistant to rosette virus has also been released which shows promise
although trials are still in progress. There are new varieties of rice and
open pollinated maize (with resistance to streak) which respond more
strongly to fertilizer than earlier varieties and have stimulated
production in those states in locations where rainfall or seasonal flooding
permit.
3.        Improved Planting Material.  Although there is a significant
potential demand for improved planting material, less than 10% of the
cropped area is planted with new varieties. In some areas there are no
improved varieties currently available which are as acceptable as those
traditionally in use, while in others the lack of efficient multiplication
arrangements and poor seed quality are the main causes for the low level of
adoption.
4.        NSS has received inadequate budgetary and management support to
work effectively and under the Bank-supported MSADP I, it has received some



-66-
Annex 3
Page 2 of 7
assistance for its cassava program. To fill the gap, states, RBDAs and
ADPs have established their own seed multiplication programs, but many have
functioned erratically. More recently, the private sector has increased
its involvement in seed multiplication and distribution which has potential
to develop into a nationwide supply network.
5.        Currently the seed sector zuffers from:  (a) lack of national
seed and certification scheme or legal framework; (b) poor definition of
roles and responsibilities of and working relationships between NSS,
research institutions and organizations operating at state level; (c) lack
of coherent policy on varietal selection and release and sale of seed in
any given area; (d) inadequate supply and with the exception of IITA
material, poor quality of breeder and foundation seed; (e) involvement of
NSS in commercial seed production which is not only of poor quality but
also distracts from its main task of supervision and quality control of
both public and private sector producers; (f) poor packaging, pricing and
marketing; and (g) inadequately trained staff. Under MSADP I, the NSS,
with the help of the Bank, has completed a study of its overall operations.
Based on this study, the strengthening of overall seed sector with emphasis
of NSS is proposed to be undertaken under the proposed MSADP III Project
now being prepared.
6.        Seed produced on government stations within the project States
has been grown from material obtained from the National Seed Service or the
National Research Institutions. Each state's recent annual production and
sale has been about 100 tons, predominantly rice and maize seed. This
quantity is a tiny fraction of the estimated seed consumed annually.
Because there are no currently available hybrid sorghums and millets
suitable which are for these areas, and the quality of those which are
available is poor, farmers have generally preferred their own seed over
that produced by the states or the NSS. For the seed service to usefully
expand, quality will have to exceed what the farmer can achieve by his own
selection, which in the case of sorghum and millet is quite effective.
There is a growing demand for vegetable seed--tomatoes, onions, garden-egg
and peppers.
7.        Crop Husbandry and Tillage Practices.  These practices vary
considerably between the states. Sixty to seventy percent of crops are
grown as mixed crops. In the south one crop usually dominates in that
mixture while in the north two cereals with or without a pulse are often of
equal importance. A family's constraint to production is governed by its
capacity to till, which in almost all cases is done manually, rather than
availability of land. Between six and twelve percent of land is cultivated
in any one year. The use of tractor power for cultivation to grow annual
food crops involves heavy financial losses at current prices. Government
services for tractor hire have been heavily subsidized and have never
cultivated more than two percent of the area under crops. Most are no
longer operating. The average area cultivated per farming family varies
from about 1.5 ha in Kwara to 2.5 to 3 ha Gongola and Niger.



-67-                              Annex 3
Page 3 of 7
8.        Animal Husbandry.  Only about 20% of crop and milk production and
50% of meat production is traded. The ratio of crop and livestock
production to total agricultural income is about 2:1. Ruminant animal
husbandry in the three states is dominated by traditional pastoralists who
migrate south in the dry season for forage and water, and north in the wet
season to avoid internal and external parasites and the disease they carry.
Little change in this busbandry has occurred this century, and apart from
those controlling the major epidemic diseases, no alternative husbandry
system attractive to livestock owners has been offered. Introducing animal
traction as well as animal driven transport, and incorporating meat/milk
products in the farm enterprise offers attractive prospects for increased
farm incomes and this' would be one objective of the project's agricultural
program. The biggest potential for labor saving and improving timeliness
of cultivations is in the introduction and adaptation of ox-drawn seeders,
weedersiand transport equipment. The Technical Division of the AD)Ps would
examine the need for and availability of, innovative hand tools such as
maize shellers and grain and grass seeders.
9.        Irrigation.  Farming systems incorporating technologies to use
surface and groundwater to extend growing seasons have recently generated
much interest. The Sokoto, Kano and Bauchi ADPs have pioneered a new and
viable technology based on shallow tubewells or washbores and small gas or
diesel pumps to enable farmers to greatly expand the area they were
previously irrigating through the traditional shadoof system (small,
hand-dug well and hand-operated water-lifting system). In the three
northern states, over 20,000 pumps have been sold which have brought an
estimated additional 30,000 ha into intensive agricultural production.
Lack of credit is a problem now since prices for pumps have increased
fourfold following the Naira's devaluation. While this technology is
limited to areas around rivers or where the aquifer is shallow, significant
areas exist in the MSADP II States suitable for intensified small-scale
irrigation. The Benue and Niger river systems traverse the project area.
Under the project, the availability of small gas or diesel pumps, low cost
washbore and tubewell drilling, and credit to enable small farmers to
acquire this new technology should boost significantly the agricultural
productivity of the lands surrounding these river systems. Other
approaches, including river diversion schemes and flood control systems,
which have been developed in earlier enclave ADPs, particularly in Kano,
Bauchi and Sokoto, will also be expanded under the project successfully to
enable the states to realize more fully the potential provided by
small-scale irrigation in these areas twhere rainfall is not adequate to
provide two crops in a year.
Infrastructure
10.       Roads.  Federal and State blacktopped roads generally are in good
condition, but contribute only 22% of each State network, the remaining
Federal and State laterite-paved roads, and LGA earth roads, are in very
poor condition due to lack of maintenance. LGA roads, providing the main
farm to market access, were originally built to variable specifications,
and have had little or no maintenance; they will deteriorate to an



-68-                              Annex 3
Page 4 of 7
unmaintainable condition unless they are rehabilitated.  Bauchi, Niger and
Kwara States have low intensity of Federal, State and LGA roads at 0.17 km
per sq.km., but Gongola State is under-developed at 0.07 km per sq.km. The
consequences of the poor rural road network have seriously affected rural
agricultural production. The lack of roads has impeded distribution of
agricultural inputs making it difficult, costly and unattractive for the
private sector to engage in these activities. Rural markets are poorly
integrated resulting in farmers not achieving maximum returns on their
output. Extension staff, already suffering from inadequate transport, have
difficulty in reaching their constituents. The small farmers in the rural
areas have generally pointed to Improvements in rural roads as the most
immediate direct beneficial impact of the ADP projects on their well being.
11.       Water Supply.  The majority of the rural population in each of
the project states obtains water from traditional sources (open streams,
springs, shallow wells, ponds and roof rainwater collection). These
traditional sources represent a health hazard and are often seasonally
variable and located at considerable distances. Less than 5% of the rural
population of each state has access to piped water supply anc he condition
of many of these supplies is unsatisfactory with a large number of piped
rural schemes either not working or working only intermittently. In most
rural areas, an average of 2 hours per day of family labor is expended on
collecting water. Considering that all members of the rural farm family
are engaged in various aspects of agricultural production, the more time
lost to water gathering, the greater the negative impact on overall farm
production.
Institutional Support
12.       State Ministries of Agriculture.  State MANR's in general suffer
from large and poorly trained staff, low-funding, and inadequate or
non-existent coordination among sub-sector specialities. Their extension
services have too many supervisory staff and too few extension agents. Few
field level staff have adequate transport. Travel allowances are
inadequate and are paid late. These constraints create a situation in
which a large staff, who are without operating funds and whose salaries
absorb 85-90% of state MANR budgets, has a negligible effect on the farming
community and on agricultural production. The Bank-assisted ADPs have
addressed many of these constraints and, under the authority of
semi-autonomous management units, have concentrated resources on improving
key agricultural services and infrastructure in support of smallholder farm
production. The autonomous ADP structures, with freedom from bureaucratic
structures, allows staff to be paid a higher salary and permits essential
activities to be undertaken that cut across ministries. However, this
approach has the potential to weaken MANRs by stripping them of their best
staff, can lead to duplication of activity and, if the duplication is not
controlled, raises questions about sustainability.
13.       Local Government Areas (LGAs).  Local Government Areas (LGAs)
have responsibility for feeder roads and rural water supply maintenance --
a responsibility which has not been fulfilled because of inadequate funding



-69-                              Annex 3
Page 5 of 7
and weak management over most of the proposed project area. FGN
established a National Commission to address the funding issue and,
following its recommendations, it is intended that funding arrangements and
the LGA administrative structure would be strengthened.
14.       Research.  The agricultural research institutes, administered by
the Ministry of Science and Technology, had an enviable record in the 1960s
but they have been inadequately funded in recent years and their research
programs as a whole have poorly reflected the priorities arising from the
actual on-farm situation in Nigeria. There are encouraging signs that many
of the institutes are becoming more interested in targeting their research
on problems arising from present farming systems rather than on theoretical
issues. The ADP program has encouraged closer relationships between
extension and research through a system of Monthly Technical Review
Meetings between research institute and extension agents. The National
Institutes receive scientific farming systems in the world's humid and the
sub-humid zones. The southern half of the sub-humid zone would be included
in the project area.
15.       Farm Inputs.  The present system of fertilizer procurement and
distribution is inefficient, though some experimentation with private
retailing has begun. Fertilizer often arrives late and is distributed
haphazardly to the states. Other (non-fertilizer) inputs are imported by
private firms and distributed by state-owned farmers' supply companies
(FASCOMs).
16.       The use of crop inputs by smallholders is said to have declined
in 1986-87 because of the adverse change in input/output price ratios. Use
of chemical inorganic fertilizer is still financially attractive to farmers
for maize, rice and yams but given low crop prices at present, only
marginally so for other crops, despite the current seventy percent subsidy.
If fertilizer subsidies were removed, the general perception is that its
use would be significantly curtailed, although how much would depend on
what happens to output prices, distribution efficiency, and the
effectiveness of extension eXfforts to induce efficient use. Phosphate and
potash would always be needed to augment organic fertilizers. At present
prices the only agro-chemical inputs in demand are seed dressing and some
storage chemicals, insecticide for cowpeas and cotton, and, where labor is
scarce, herbicide for irrigated rice. Technology for weeding irrigated
rice by animal drawn equipment has yet to be introduced in Nigeria.
17.       As of December 1986, Nigeria had 936 urban branches and 481 rural
branches of commercial, merchant and the National Savings Bank (formerly
postal savings scheme). Banks had for a long time shied away from
extending credit to the agricultural sector, which resulted in CBN
prescribing credit allocation to rural areas and to the agricultural sector
during the seventies.
18.       The project area is severely under-banked, even in comparison
with other rural areas. Apart from commercial and merchant banks, the
other main institution providing credit in the project area is NACB. NACB,



-70-                            Annex 3
Page 6 of 7
which has its branches in each of the states, lends to individual and group
borrowers either directly or through state ministries handling agricultural
credit and to Cooperative Financing Agencies (CFAs). Direct loans by NACB,
particularly large medium term loans, are made to individual farmers and
cooperatives. NACB's loan recovery performance has been poor -- as low as
20% in some states, resulting in mounting over-dues and threatening its
financial stability. Until August 1987, NACB like all other lenders
charged concessional rates on agricultural production loans but now
interest rates have been deregulated. The performance of State Ministries
as agricultural credit channels has been poor, generally achieving
collection rates of less than 20% of loans due. There is widespread market
failure because of weak institutions mainly for credit, but also for input
supply and distribution, produce marketing, etc., poor design of credit
schemes, too much government involvement, cumbersome procedures, weak
management and poor recovery performance. The institutional link between
lenders and borrowers that would facilitate the granting and collection of
many small loans in a short space of time is weak. There is a need for the
strengthening ot cooperatives and farmer 3reups, as well as other
institutions serving the rural community, in order to make them effective
two-way channels for (i) credit and savings mobilization; and (ii) for
input distribution and produce marketing. Given the poor performance,
there is a need for the evaluation of all agricultural credit schemes
administered by State Ministries of Agriculture, Commerce, Trade and
Industry (this Ministry includes the Department of Cooperatives), and Local
Government; as well as credit in kind such as the tractor hire services
(subsidized or not).
19.       The Federal Government is expected to issue soon, a White Paper
on Agricultural Credit which will draw on the conclusions of a National
Agricultural Credit Study (completed in 1986) and it is expected that one
of the major recommendations will be establishment of State Rural and
Cooperative Banks to handle rural credit. Given the bad track record of
state institutions and parastatals such as NACB, the proposed new
institutions could also turn out to be a major drain of public sector
resources. It may be desirable to supplement the commercial banking
network with a rural banking system based on the cooperative efforts of
individuals or farmer groups which emphasize savings mobilization and loan
discipline. Institutions that are largely or entirely dependent on public
sector resources cannot be developed on a sustainable basis. The
strengthening of the cooperative movement may be one way of enabling
commercial banks to expand their operations beyond the large farmers they
currently serve.



-71-                               Annex 3
Page 7 of 7
20.       Summary of Public Expenditure on Agriculture
Second Plan               Third Plan            Fourth Plan
1970-74              1975/76-1979-80           1981-1985
(Actual)                 (Actual)              (Budgeted)
M.N.   %of   N/ha       M.N.   %of    N-/ha    M.N.   %of
N/ha
Gongola        5    18.5    0.7       37      12.1    5.2    121   9.3   16.99
Kwara          5     9.3    1.1       26       5.8    5.7      97   8.8   21.41
Niger          6    18.8    1.18      31      12.9    6.11   109  10.9   21.5
Middle Belt
States       25    13.8    1.03    188        11.5    7.73   697  12.3   28.67
Northern
States       56    18.1    1.91    240        13.1    8.18  1472  18.1   50.15
Southern
States       73    14.2    5.1       368      10.1   25.7   1258   9.0   87.85
Source:  Nigeria - Second, Third, and Fourth National Development Plans.



mullf si5II AGIICUOIIlA4I DLVtlOP.14t1 PROJECT If - NSA0P 1I
PROJECT COSI SUIART
INA111A *O000I                                        WS$   0001
IF  8                               1.1    6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
I                      I        E,          C         I         F t                  E          C
a *  s~~~~........    ..3*  St*f:   ..... LA 1~ .83
A. PRO.iEC1 NAUNAtm
PROJECT NANAGIUNIN.
A9NIW. 8  1N8NCC                     6.b4511. 20   .,23b.21  12.694.41       49        3   1,57$. 17  1.521.03   3.096.20         49       3
PROJICI lliIoRI
AND EVALUAII8N                        1.874.98   I.937.67   3,412.65         45        1     457.31    375.04      832.35         45        1
RHPOWIR DtVELtoz4tR
tNSOL TINOPING                        4.092  -j  1.71S.95   9.808.08          30       1     998.08    418.92   1.416.60          30        I
s  -t     PROJICI   NAGINtNl               172.42b.31   9.489.83  21?915. 14        43       s   3.030.6  2.314.59   5.345. 16          43        s
IL ItCHNICAt SERVICIS
........... ...........,,,_
REStARCH                                 1.694.95   1.28b.74  31140.69           41       1     452.43    313.59       756.02        41        1
EliiNsION                               10. 79% 14   8. 607. r2  19. 402. fib    44       4   2.632.96  2.09o.39   4. 732.35         44        4
AGR9 fORES1RY AND
SOIL CONSERVAIION                    s.030.80   2. l19.79   7. 190.59         30       2   1.227.02    526.77   1,753.79          30       2
SEED NUtliPICAIIC oN                     5.967.61   3.831.02   9.798.63          39       2   1,455.52    934.39   2.389.91          39        2
ANIRAL IRACTION                          2,741.50   1.833.99   4,575.45          40       1      668.66    447.30   1,lb. 96         40        1
Ni1tLA                                   1.,301.80   2.485.70   3. 787.90        66       1      317.91    606.27      923.78        66        1                                                                 -4
VETERINJRY                               2. 175 27   5 125?.2    7, 300. 52      70       2     530.55  1 250. 06   1 780. 62        70        2
S  -1     TECHtNICAL SERVICES              29.867.06  25.328.92  65,199.98          46       13   7.284.69  6,177.79  13,452.43         46       13
C. INFRASTRUCIURE
RURAL ROADS
FORCE ACCOUINT                       12. 183. 14  22. 632.56  34,8195. 70    65        8   2, 971. 50  9. 520. 14  8, 491. 63     69       8
RURAL ROADS - CONTRACT                   9,320.87  36,376.42  45,697.30          80      10  2,273. 38  8, 872.30  11. 149. 68       80       10
MATER SUPPLY                            17. 162. 34  55. 137. 41  72.299. 76     76      16  4. 85. 94 13, 448. 15  17,634.09        76       16
IRRIGATION I 1*98FA   I                  7 983. 06   4 760. 32  12. 743.329      37       3   1 947. 09   , 161. 05   3. 108. 14     37        3
S  -T     INFRASTRUCTURE                   46, 649.42 118. 906.72 165. 556. 14      72      38  11, 377.91 29,001.64  40,37.955          72      38
0. CONNERCIAL SERVICES
INPUT SUPPLY I RETAIL PRIVATE I         11.098.56  35. 164.28  46,262.84         76      10  2,706.97  8,576.6b  11,283.62           76       to
COOPERATIVE FINANCING AGENCY            10,992.08  17, 444. 29  28 436. 37       61       6   2 680. 99  4. 29. 71   6 935. 70       6t        6
S  -T     COMERCIAL SERVICES               22,090.64  52. 608.57  74,699.21         70       17   5,387.96 12,831.36  18,219.32          70      17
E. STATE lAR
SECTOR PLANNING                            987.96   s.804. 68   6, 792.65        89       2      240.97  1. 415. 78   t, 656. 74     89        2
INSTIIUTIONAL REVIEW                       275.03   1,013.69   1,288.72          79       0      67.08    247.24      314.32         79        0
ADOITIONAL PRoGRAIIS                    16.949.57  67. 916. 14  84. 865. 71      80       19  4. 134.04 16.564. 91  20. 698.29       80       19
5  -T     STATE MAWR                       18,212.97  74.734.91  92,947.07          80      21   4.442.09 18,227.93  22.670.02           80      21
F. FEDERAL GOVERNITENI
11ll                                     6.841.53  13,438.61  20,280.14          66       s   1,668.67  3,277.71   4,946.38          66        s
FACU                                     5.019.16   5,306.05  10,325.22          91       2   1.224. 19  1.294. 16   2,518.35        Si        2
S  -T     fEDERAL GOVERNNENI               11,860.69  18,744.66  30,605.36          61       7   2,892.85  4,571.87   7,464.72           61       7
I     BASELINE COSTS                        141,105 69 299.813.21 440.918.91          68      100  34,416.02 73,125.17 107,541.20          68     100
*w       C                                 8.549.32  20.212 87  28,762.20          70       7   2,089.20  4,929.97   7.015 17           70       7
**P       C                                    4.4 103.10 116,930 .78 171.033.88       68      39   3,316 72  7 166. 1   10,482.83         68       10
PRWJECI COSTS                              203.75 8.12 436,955.87 640,714.99         68      145  39,817.95 859221.25 1259039.20          88    l16
A     13. 1988  1 1: 09
*phsical Contingencies
**irice Contingencies



NIGERIA
MIUII-SIATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II - 1ShDP It
f         P        P       C
TUSS ' 0001
WORID BANK      FEDFRAI GOVkRNMENT  STATE GOVERNMENT         t
---------- ---   ------------------  ----------------  -----------------                   I      IE   .0        a
A          1        A            I      A           I      A                 F .E   .        I    I        I
A  PROJECT RANAGEMENT
... .. . ....     .....
PROJECT 1ANAGEE4NI.
ADMIN. A FINANCE                     1. 712. 72 48.76      369.63  10. 52   12 430. 03 40.71    3. 512. 38   2.81    1.712. 72      1. 448. 42   351.24
PROJECT MONITORING
AND EVALUATION                         419.97 44.5$         104.84  11.12      418.25 44.35        943.07   0.75       419.97         428.7,9     94.31
MANPOWER DEVEIOPMENI
AND TRAINING                           475.42 29.43        573.44  35.50       566.55 35.07    1.615.41   1.29         475.42         978 t5      161.54
S  -1     PROJECT MUAAGEENT                2. 608. 12 42.96     1. 047. 92  17.26    2.414.82 39.78    6, 070. 86   4.86    2. 608. 12    2. 855.65     607.09
Q. TECHNICAL SERVICES
RESEARCH                                  353. 15 40.57        128.27  14.73       389.09 44.70       870.51   0. 70      353. 15        430.31       87. 05
EfTENSION                               2.332.92 43.63        253.75   4.75    2.760.79 52.63    5.347.46   4.28    2.332.92           2,479.79      534.75
AGRO-FORESIRY AND
SOIL CONSERVATION                      600.64 29.67        604.29  29.85       819.53 40.48    2.024.47   1.62         600. 64     12 221. 38    202.45                              I
SEED MULTIPLICATION                     1.053.39 38.60        584.95  21.43    1.090.94 39.97    2,729.28   2. 18    1.053.39          1,402 96      272.93
ANIMAt TRACTIJON                          503.57 39.70         277.36  21.86       487. 66 38.44    1. 288.59   1.01      503.57         638. 16     126.86
MIASEtLA                                  678 94 65.24          41.68   4.00       320.05 30.75    1,040.66   0.83        678.94         257.66      104 07                             f
VETERINARY T                              422. 87 70.05        140.92   6.94       467.05 23.01    2.029.84   1.62    1 421. 87          404.99      202.98                              t
S  -T     TECHNICAt SERVICES               6.944. 49 45.36      2. 031. 22  13.27    6. 335. 11 41.38   15, 310.82  12. 24    5. 944.49   6. 835. 25  12 531. 08                           O
C. INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                                                                                                          'U
_ ----_                                                                                                                                                                                                          _t-
RUR4t R.  S -                                                                                                                                                                           D                        w
FORCE ACCOUNT                        6. 139.87 64.72     1.693.01  17.85    1. 53.63 17.43    9.486. 51   7.59    6. 139.87        2. 397. 99    948.65 5
RURAL ROADS - CONTRACT                 10. 189.05 79.61      12 329. 17   0. 39   12 279. 80 10.00   12,798.03  10.24   10. 189. 05    1.329. 17   1. 279. 80
1411ER SUPPLT                          15.469 51 76.23      2.341.39  11.54    2.482.81 12.23   20,293. 72  16.23   15. 469.51         2.794.83   2.029.37
IRRIGATrON  I FADAIA I                  1.309. 79 37. 12       193.24   5. 48    2.05. 38 57.40    3.528.41   2.82    2 309. 79        1.865. 78    352.54
S  -.I    INFRASTRUCTURE                  33. 108.22 71.81      5.556.82  12.05    7. 442. 62 16. 14   46, 106. 67  36.87   33. 108. 22   8.387. 78   4. 610. 67
0. COINIERCIAL SERVICES
INPUT SUPPLY I RETAIL PRIVAIL I        10. 228.28 76. 16     1.357 05  10.21    1,810.04 13.62   13,285.37  10.62   10. 118.28         1 838.56   1,328.54
COOPERATIVE FINANCING AGENCY            4,787.37 61.19        954.81  12.20    2,081.87 26.61    7 824.05   6.26    4.787.37           2,254.27      782.40
s  -T     COMMERCIAL SERVICES              14,905.65 70.61      2 311.85  10.95    3891. 91 18.44   21,  9. 42  16.88   14 905.65         4.092.83   2 110.94
E. STATE MUIR
SECTOR PLANNING                         1, 607.00 85.40         86.48   4.60       188. 16 10.00    t, 881.64   1. SO    1, 607.00        88.48      188. 16
INSTITUI1ON1L REVIEW                      282.53 78.66         40.74  11.34         35.92 10.00       359.20   0.29       282.53          40.74       35.92                             f
A6DIIIONAL PROGRAMS                    20.514. 30 80.03     2. 556. 19   9.97    2,563.39 10.00   25. 633.89  20.50   20. 514.30       2. 556. 19   2.563.39
.- - - -    -- -  .. ..... ...     ... .  -- - -- -   -- -  -- - -- -   -- - - - - - - --  - - - - - -   ..   . . .
S  -T     STATE IANR                      22.403.83 80.37       2.683.41   9.63    2,787.47 20.00   27.874. 72  22.29   22,403.83         2 683 41   2, 87.47
f. fEDERAt GOVERNMENT
AIMT11                                  3.772.94 66.30       1,917.40  33.70         0.00  0.00    5.690.34   4.55    3.772.94         1,348.37      569.03
FMZU                                    1 478. 00 5.38       1 398. 37  48.62        0.00  0.00    2,876.38   2.30    1 478.00         1. 110. 74    287.64
S  -t     FEDERAt GOVERMIENT               5. 250.94 61. 29     3. 315. 77  38.71       0.00  0.00    8,566 72   6.85    5,250.94         24659. 10     856.67
0                                     85,221.25 68.216    16,947.00  13.55   22,870.95 18.29  125.039.20 200.00   85,221.25          27.314.03  12,503.92
^  13  w1:"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .                                                     ....... 
a-i



- 74 -
Annex 4-3
NIGERIA
SECOND MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US $ Million)
Cumulative      Cumulative Z
Disbursement   of Agricultural
IBRD Fiscal Year                            Cumulative        as 2 of         Disbursement
and Quarter             Disbursement    Disbursement    Total Loan            Profile    a/
FY90  1st Quarter               5.0             5.0              6
2nd    "                 3.7              8.7             10                 0
3rd    "                 4.4             13.1             15
4th    "                 4.3             17.1             20                 1
FY91  1st Quarter               4.7            22.1             26
2nd    "                 4.7             26.8             31                 5
3rd    "                 4.7             31.5             37
4th    "                 4.7             36.2             4^                12
FY92  1st Quarter               6.4            42.6             50
2nd    "                 6.4            49.0              58                20
3rd    "                 6.4             55.4             65
4th    "                 6.4             61.8             73                29
FY93  1st Quarter               5.8            67.6             79
2nd    it                5.7             73.3             86                39
3rd    "                 5.8             79.1             93
4th    "                 6.1             85.2            100                50
FY94  1st Quarter
2nd    "                                                                    60
3rd    "
4th    "                                                                    70
FY95  1st Quarter
2nd    "                                                                    78
3rd    "
4th    "                                                                    86
FY96  1st Quarter
2nd    "                                                                    91
3rd    "
4th    "                                                                    95
FY97  1st Quarter
2nd    "                                                                    99
3rd    "
4th    "                                                                   100
a/  Based on Disbursement Profile for Nigeria Agriculture Area Development 9/11/85.



NIGERIA: MSADP 11
Organization Chart
FMAWRRD
project
1        ~~Ccoorbntatilng
Federal Institutions
FDRD
ARMTI         APPUAU
ADP
State Institutions                                  ExoeutieW
Conunittee
.|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
MANR                rFinance  |                                                   ;,
l   l  8menterlal                  [
MEO.W=~ ~    ADPMU/CEO                -Adrs:tr:aten
AgicuTehncalRuurauallrrgaCoommu
A~~~~~altoh                               _     __                    _
& TevhrdalUo  _r Maoowertiv
Services                                                                 Fnamft~~~~~~~~~~~~Sepl
Diiin                                                                                        Agencie
A$2ual |                 | TechnScal        Rua           Rua         Mgto                             Dept of  |X
Services        Roads        Water       (Fadama)                        Cooperatives           n
ERtensleach   Land Use        Seed         Animal
Extesion Reserch       Plamn      MtitipfcaUon    Trac-t-on                                Extemnal to the AD' 
EK\w4203 Ia



- 76 -                                               Annex 5-2
NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 11
Implem. ntaflon Schedule
Project Yecor   mog.Prject   I            2            3           4            5
IBRD fY    FY88/89     FY89/90      FV90/91     FiY91/92     FY92/93     FY93/94
CY     11988         1989        1990         1991        1992         1993
uaa _ 1 2  3  4  1 2  3 44  1 2  3 14  1  2  3 4  1  2  31
| 1~~~~~~~~~~~ud    1 2b 3F J4i 2  3                                                         112        JJJr      4  1  21314  . 
1. I1RD
1.1 Negotiatiors                            0
1.2 Ao~ i Presentatipon
1.3 EEVecttvene.
11.4CaonveticmnDate,                                                                                       Dec-- 31. 1993
1.5 Casin date                                                                                                    June 30.
2. PROUECr BDAPEMWTI1ON
11.11 Stotew1ia eADPs
a. Agricuiurid Actniles                           -      *--          -        ---*---*---
bt RAw a Progrom
(1) FAOWJ Plarming 
(5) AvXd Contract                                                                         0
(il) LGC MAintenanceo0                                                                                          0
c Borehoae PRogram
(1) AxdContracft
(ri) DW 8orehaIeS6                                                        -     *-        -***-**8
cInQA u pplies
(i)Appoint UcensW ue rs
(ii) DiskxtInut fputs                                                     -         -     -     -           
e. Rwald COedts (CaAS)0                                           -     -----*---.---5
1.2 Federa CamfVonents
a ARMf Program-                                                         ----*                 --*---I
b. FACU                                                                                                          S
3 REPORTS
a Quaerty PvogfewReports                                  @      0    0    0 .       .     .     .
0 Annutja Warkc Program andl Annual Budget        S         0           S            0
r. Mid-Termi Pevew                       iOi
Wodid Bank-42031



- 77 -                         Annex 5-3
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
SECOND MULTI STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED CFA ACTION PROGRAM
Elements                             Actions to be Taken
1. Organization Restructuping
(a) Restructuring Studies       (a) BCFA restructuring study and
portfolio audit to be completed June
1989.
(b) Organization Structure      (b) CFA Board should approve the
proposed new organizational
structure by not later than
September 30, 1989.
(c) Staffing                    (c) Finalize staff profile and size by
September 30, 1989. Complete staff
redeployment and retrenchment by
December 31, 1989.
(d) Composition of              (d) The Board of Directors of nine
Board of Directors              to include three members from
private sector with banking
experience by December 31, 1988.
(e) Loan Committee              (e) CFA should establish a Loan
Committee whose functions and
membership are acceptable to IBRD by
June 30, 1989.
2. Financial Rehabilitation
(a) Budget Rationalization Plan  (a) Submit annual budget plan to IBRD by
October 31.
(b) Capital Restructuring         (b) Bauchi State Govt, takes over
BCFA debt to Govt. from 1977
loan, by June 30, 1989.
(c) Cost Controls & Revenue       (c) CFA would submit to IBRD by not
Enhancement                        later than June 30, 1989 a financial
plan leading to the following:



-78 -                           Annex 5-3
Page 2 of 3
Elements                             Actions to be Taken
(i) achieving and maintaining an
adequate lenidng rate spread
over the borrowing rate;
(ii) achieving and maintaining
liquidity ratio of at least 1.5
by June 30, 1990;
(iii) achieving and maintaining
operating profit margin of at
least 10% by June 30, 19,90;
(iv) achieving and maintaining a
fixed charges coverage of at
least 1.25 times; and
(v) reducing and maintaining
operating costs to a maximum of
50% of CFA's income by June 30,
1990.
(d) Portfolio Management         (d) (i) CFA should establish by not
later than June 30, 1989 a
portfolio management policy
including guidelines for
provision for bad debt,
portfolio monitoring,
supervision, appraisal, etc. in
line with recommendations of
external auditors;
(ii) CFA should not have more than
10% of its loan portfolio with
any single sub-borrower; and
(iii) CFA should not make loan to any
sub-borrower whose debt service
coverage ratio is less than 1.5.
3. Operational Policy
(a) Staff Manual                 (a) Prepare staff manual and obtain
Board approval by September 30,
1989.
(b) Organization & Functiou      (b) Finalize and obtain Board approval
Statements                       of org. & function statements by
June 30, 1989.



- 79                          Annex 5-3
Page 3 of 3
Elements                             Actions to be Taken
(c) Appraisal, Supervision &    (c) Prepare Appraisal, Supervision and
Inspection Manual                 Inspection Manual by June 30, 1989.
(d) Portfolio Management Manual (d) Prepare and obtain Board approval of
credit and portfolio management
manual by not later than June 30,
1989.
4. Information System
(a) Review of Account and         (a) Complete the review of BCFA
Computer System                   accounting and computer system by
June 30, 1989.
(b) Accounting System             (b) Revise the accounting system based
on recommendations of the accounting
system review by December 31, 1989.
(c) Financial Information         (c) Establish and implement appropriate
System                            Financial Information System by
December 31, 1989.
(d) Management Information        (d) Establish and implement appropriate
System                            Management Information System by
March 31, 1990.



NIGERIA
MULTI-STATE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Tmpact of Extension Messages Farm Incomes by Agro-Ecological Zone
Selected                     Financial (N)                                        Economic (N)
Farm Models           W/O Project   W Project (YR 4)    % Increase         W/O Project   W Project (YR 4)    x Increase
1. Sorghum/Millet,
Cowpea, Groundnut        2,509           2,992               19.3              1,076           1,334               24.0
(Bauchi, N. Gongola,
N. Niger)
2. Model I with Live-
stock for fattening/    5,003            6,689              33.7             2,842            4,002               40.8
milk (Bauchi, N.
Gongola, N. Niger)
3. Fadama-Rice, Sorghum,
Vegetables (selected    9,183           16,847              83.5              4,767            9,942             108.6
areas, all states)
4. Yam/Maize, Seed
Cotton, Upland Rice      5,846           6,418               9.8              2,715            2,900               6.8
(mid-Gongola, S.
Niger, N. Kwara)
5. Model 4 with Live-
stock for fattening      6,296           8,456              34.3              3,062            5,280              72.4
and animal traction
(mid-Gongola, S.
Niger, N. Kwara)
6. Maize/Sorghum, Egusi
Melon/Millet, Ground-   3,780            4,203               11.2             2,354            2,657              12.9
nut, Cassava, Yam
(mid-S. Kwara)



4-          _  _  _  /'  ' 1._ 6-                                     -                                 1                                                                        -IBRD 20937
N  I G   E  R                                           _\.   CHAD
/                    RDSOIOTO                      -l         <g>KATSINA   _  _   _                                                                                                      \,
f.t X 2 S O ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K OTOf+jKA N O  fr ^ '                                                                         I                                     ONgolo '1-4
-i2                                                                                       ('               KANO O                                                           B O  R N                  O
Y.                                                                   \                                     <:: *                                                         MAIDUGURI
r  -'r                                              \                        /                ..-**                                                                                          0 '/Scmoru   >   9  ^ _ 5   Cg2! -P°80rnu Ranch  /
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Samaru                           \
(    -~-'  s                              >KADUNA                                    I !                    -r
B  E  N  I N            ?ir                                                                                     ' r                                             1                              /   r
RnonRvOia\    <)                                , - tKAOUNA               Y                BBA  U  CH  I                      .                          .0
fESERVA'N\J  r -                                                                  ,                     A   HI                                                      2 .J
J~~~~
10                     .          5                _ N     MINNA                        -   )                                      _ _  v*    -*C HAD
i \ oMOkWQ t ~~~~~~~/' r.                                                                                                                              V iLA 
i-~   4-              ,> _  O Bodeggi           ffDFRAL  I
Ji                                                                        CA PITAL -PA
1TERRI TORX                  tA TAI                         . 7
r  -                       \  OILORIN f                         :\<    s   /&                                              -7;L                                           /          N  I G    E  R  I A
-8 >                                                        GON Y N G O L A   I VEGETATION ZONES
*t .tf OYOh >10. s                                 g,/ )                   /);;_> /i -'                                                                                     AND PROJECT STATES
-,                                   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI                                                       Sahel
* 5,   _,,   IBIADAN  J  O   N   D  Q O  I                         .            ORov N- DO                                                                      Sudan
>'        Pv5E$UTA                                                                   t    ~"5._ /' AKURE  /  9 B  E  N    U  E                                            S,,b-sudan
-) *9ENIN CITY   ,   r-.     CAM  E R O  O N                    uNorthern Guinea
OGU                                                                                                                                                                       S Suthern Guinea
Detived Savanna
*LAG                                                            ANAMBRA '  .  , ^,c l,a woo 120 axo too  <                             Forest & Swomp  50-400  7,0+  O   0-2    80   NOTE. ECOLOGWAFTER KEAY oe
1B    N                                           8DEL   \YA  A A\                                                       l4
LAGOS                                                                 OENUGIJ              ~                 CAM        ROOM                                         monfu,n1
1111ENIN CITY                                                         CAMEROONea
S.  ,<                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Swaty
t<'~~~~~f)  ~ ~ ~ ~  ~        ~~~.u~CIMTIC CHARACTERISTICS OF ZONES                         Manov forest
"   l~- Im   o ~     CRS                                Mean  Dry season Number of Relative
j         *   Umue*.~~~~~~ ,J ~~~~  '  RIVER ~~~ Ecological Zones  ranal          M anket  kmdt
C-    ~~~~~-i-                     ERRI:- ~~~~~~~~~~~~f                                nthent   tluhe.)   <0- 1< 10 meOnthly.
A F R I Ca n  A.                                                                                       *(In                                                 0900 OOh.urs)
CA                                                  /                            J                      ______  _______  ___           (PaiO4ntt   -  - ~~~~~~t% AProject state boundarieu
'PORT       i        BO          CALA9AJ        Sahln            20         0       6   8       -
NIGERIA          rni'ej. LJ                               PhARCOURT   .             !t         -/          Sdn20-40                     0       5    7    15-20             Rer
anan.nmw.aofwe.o,  ...-'        ' ~~~V,~      'o          UY                  Sub-svdan        30-40    0.1 -0.3    4   5    20-30         0National capital
On' uu.,esrn,  bi ~~~~~~~)'~~ri~~ ~~IA"       .~~              Nord.em Guinea ~~~~~405    0.3-7      3   5       20         *State capitalsI
o   20  on  on  no  Io                       I.%9~''                                        Southern Guinea   45-55    1.0- 3.0   1  4-5   30-50    --Stole boundaones
___________________                     2~. V~0f'                                     Derived Savanna   50-70    3.5 -6.5    0   3-4    60     -_International boundaries
cons   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Forest & Swamp 50-400  7.0.   0 0-2  80
o  za on uo IT 12n 14n 1n60a                                                                                                                        NOTE. ECOLOGY AFTER KEAY El CLAYTON
40                          N~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOCOMECES                                                                                                           _____
a,                                lo,                                 Iv 40
MAY 1988



N IG ER                                                         HAD   NIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL
BaJHHNA                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~DEVELOPMENT
PROJECTS
PROJECT STWfES:
BORNO                        ~~~~~~MSADP I
[I]CO1WLETM.
1Ftmtua (Loan 1092434)
2Guaau (Loan 1099-UNI)
3 Gombe (Loan 1164-UNdi)
4AVarba (Loan 155-1,M)
5Laf Ia (Loan 1454-UN1)
-              6  ~~~~BId (Loan 166-UNI)
YIZ)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ borin (Loan 16688434)
8 Ekiti Akoko (Loan 1854-UNI)
EXISTING:
A Oyo Northi (Loan 1838-1.1N]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~National Capital                                                             B  Bauchi St. (Loan 1981-UNIt
®) State Capitals                C  Sokoto St. (Loan 2185-UN!)
-   State BoundariesD  Kano St. (Loan 1982-UN!)
International Boundaries      BKaduna St. (Loan 2436-UNI)
K    _____IS___                                          F  MSADP I (Loan 2733-UN!)
2il 4b ab abI                           ~~~~~~~Southern
Isom                                                      B~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  omo    (Loan 2741-tN!)
mL                                                                                                                          I    _ __I_        _ _I__       _



