Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2988 UNI
       (Second Multi-State Agricultural Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                     GONGOLA STATE OF NIGERIA
                      Dated February 27, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2988 UNI
                  GONGOLA STATE PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  February  27,  1989,  between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank) and GONGOLA
STATE OF NIGERIA (Gongola State).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between Federal Republic of  Nigeria  (the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to  eighty  five million two hundred
thousand dollars ($85,200,000),  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan  Agreement,  but  only on condition that Gongola
State agrees to undertake such  obligations toward the Bank as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary loan  agreement  (the Gongola State Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement) to  be  entered  into between the Borrower
and Gongola State, the proceeds  of  the loan allocated to Catego-
ries (1) (b),  (2)  (b),  (3)  (a),  (4)  (a),  (5)  (a), (6) (b),
(7) (a), (9) (a) and (10) (b)  in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
will  be  made  available  to  Gongola  State  on  the  terms  and
conditions  set  forth  in   the  Gongola  State  Subsidiary  Loan
Page  2
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS  Gongola  State,  in   consideration  of  the  Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement  with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used in this  Agreement,  the  several  terms  defined in the Loan
Agreement, the Preamble to  this  Agreement and the General Condi-
tions (as so  defined)  have  the  respective meanings therein set
forth  and  the  following  additional  terms  have  the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Gongola  State  Project   Account"  means  the  account
referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Gongola  State  Special   Account"  means  the  account
referred to in Section 2.01 (d) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "Gongola  State  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means the
agreement referred to in Recital B of this Agreement; and
     (d)  "GADPEC" means the committee referred to in Section 2.02
of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a)  Gongola  State  declares its commitment to
the objective of the Project  as  set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A through E
(except  B  (1)  (b))  of  the  Project  with  due  diligence  and
efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering  and  agricultural    practices,  and shall
provide, or cause to be  provided,  promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and  other  resources  required  for the said
Parts of the Project.
     (b)  Without  any  limitation  or  restriction  upon  Gongola
State's obligations under paragraph  (a)  of this Section, Gongola
State shall: (i) provide  in  its annual budget amounts sufficient
to cover Gongola State's counterpart  contribution to the costs of
the Project; (ii) open  and  maintain  an  account at a commercial
bank (the Gongola State  Project  Account)  to be used exclusively
for expenditures under  the  Project;  (iii)  pay into the Gongola
State Project Account  an  initial  amount  equivalent to $400,000
representing 25% of  Gongola  State's  counterpart contribution to
the first  year's  project  costs;  and  (iv)  thereafter pay each
quarter into the  Gongola  State  Project Account (commencing from
the quarter immediately following  the  quarter  in which the Loan
becomes effective  and  no  later  than  the  first  month of each
quarter) the respective counterpart  contribution of Gongola State
to the costs  of  the  Project,  adjusted  to  take account of any
payment by Gongola State  of  the  initial amount specified above.
The  Borrower  and  Gongola  State  presently  estimate  the  said
counterpart   contribution   to   amount   in   1988   prices   to
Naira 20,350,000 over the project period.
     (c)  Gongola State: (i) undertakes  to  provide in its budget
amounts sufficient to cover the  salaries of all existing staff of
Gongola State seconded to  the  Project  in  addition to any other
contributions of Gongola State  to  incremental project costs; and
(ii) shall promptly pay the said salaries.
     (d)  Gongola State shall,  for  the  purposes of the Project,
Page  3
open and maintain in dollars  a special account (the Gongola State
Special Account) in  a  commercial  bank  on  terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits  into, and payments out of, the
Gongola State Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Gongola  State  shall  establish and thereafter
maintain in a form and with functions and staffing satisfactory to
the  Borrower  and   the   Bank,   a  Gongola  State  Agricultural
Development   Project   Executive   Committee   (GADPEC)   and  an
Agricultural Development Project  Management Unit (ADPMU). Further
provisions relating to GADPEC and ADPMU  are set out in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the  provisions  of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment.
     Section 2.04. Gongola State  shall  carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to  insurance,  use of goods and ser-
vices, plans and schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement.
     Section  2.05.  Gongola  State  shall  duly  perform  all its
obligations under  the  Gongola  State  Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Except as the Bank shall  otherwise agree, Gongola State shall not
take or concur  in  any  action  which  would  have  the effect of
amending,  abrogating,  assigning  or  waiving  the  Gongola State
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.06. (a) Gongola State  shall, at the request of the
Borrower or the Bank,  exchange  views  with  the Borrower and the
Bank with regard to the  progress  of the Project, the performance
of its obligations  under  this  Agreement  and  under the Gongola
State Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  Gongola State shall promptly inform the Borrower and the
Bank of any condition  which  interferes or threatens to interfere
with the  progress  of  the  Project,  the  accomplishment  of the
purposes of the Loan, or  the  performance by Gongola State of its
obligations under  this  Agreement  and  under  the  Gongola State
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.07.  Gongola  State  shall  carry  out  the actions
described in Schedule 3 to  this  Agreement to the satisfaction of
the Bank, said Schedule being subject to modification from time to
time by agreement  between  the  Borrower,  Gongola  State and the
Bank.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) Gongola State shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records  and  accounts  adequate to reflect in
accordance  with  sound   accounting   practices  the  operations,
resources and  expenditures  in  respect  of  the  Project  of the
departments or agencies of  Gongola State responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  Gongola State shall:
          (i)  have the accounts referred  to  in paragraph (a) of
               this Section (including  the  Gongola State Special
               Account) for each  fiscal  year  audited, in accor-
               dance with appropriate  auditing principles consis-
               tently applied, by  independent auditors acceptable
               to the Bank;
Page  4
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year: (A)  certified copies of its finan-
               cial statements for  such  year  as so audited, and
               (B) the report of  such  audit  by said auditors of
               such scope and  in  such  detail  as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as  the  audit  thereof,  as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were  made  on behalf of Gongola State under
the Project on  the  basis  of  statements of expenditure, Gongola
State shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of Gongola State  thereunder  shall  terminate  on the date on
which the Loan Agreement  shall  terminate  in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Gongola State thereof.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
Page  5
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For Gongola State:
          Permanent Secretary
          Ministry of Agriculture
          Yola, Gongola State
          Nigeria
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  Gongola  State,  or  by  Gongola State on
behalf of the Borrower under  the  Loan Agreement, may be taken or
executed by Gongola State's  Commissioner  for Agriculture or such
other person  or  persons  as  Gongola  State  shall  designate in
writing, and Gongola State  shall  furnish  to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    GONGOLA STATE OF NIGERIA
                    By /s/ Hamzat Ahmadu
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
Page  6
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.        (i)  Bidders for works included in  Parts B and F of the
               Project shall be prequalified as described in para-
               graph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
         (ii)  To  the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for goods
               shall be grouped in  bid packages estimated to cost
               an amount equivalent to $500,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Gongola may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   All goods estimated to  cost  an amount equivalent to $60,000
or more but less than $500,000  per  contract and all works may be
procured under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   All goods estimated to cost an amount equivalent to less than
$60,000 may be procured  under  contracts  awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited  from  a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under  the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 (i) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract  for goods and works esti-
mated to cost the equivalent  of  $500,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2  and  4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for  such  contract are to be made out
of the Gongola  State  Special  Account,  such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the  two  conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to  the  Bank pursuant to paragraph 2 (d)
of said Appendix  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank prior to the
making of the  first  payment  out  of  the  Gongola State Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Gongola State Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract, together with the other informa-
tion required to be furnished to  the Bank pursuant to paragraph 3
of said Appendix, shall be  furnished  to  the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
Page  7
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
3.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist Gongola State in carrying out the Project,
Gongola  State  shall  employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the Borrower and  the Bank. Such consultants shall
be  selected  in   accordance   with   principles  and  procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on  the  basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Project Executing Agencies
A.   Gongola  State  Agricultural  Development  Project  Executive
     Committee (GADPEC)
(1)  GADPEC's membership shall include the following:
     (a)  State Governor                     Chairman
     (b)  Commissioner for                   Deputy Chairman
           Agriculture (MOA)
     (c)  Commissioner for                   Member
           Local Government and
           Community Development
     (d)  Commissioner for Finance           Member
           and Economic Planning
     (e)  Commissioner for Works             Member
           and Transport
     (f)  Commissioner for                   Member
           Commerce and Industry
     (g)  Secretary to the State             Member
           Government and Head of
           Service
     (h)  Director, Federal Department       Member
           of Rural Development (FDRD)
     (i)  Head of FACU                       Member
     (j)  General Manager, Upper Benue       Member
           River Basin
           Development Authority
     (k)  State Director, Directorate        Member
           of Food, Roads and Rural
           Infrastructure
     (l)  Permanent Secretary (MOA)          Member
     (m)  Chief Executive (ADPMU)            Member/Secretary
(2)  GADPEC shall meet at least  once  every two months during the
first two years of the Project  and thereafter at such times as it
shall  determine.  Its  functions  shall  in  addition  to policy,
finance   and   coordination   of   project   activities  include:
(i) approval of  the  annual  project  budget  and work plan; (ii)
appointment of principal staff; and (iii) ensuring availability of
Page  8
adequate project funds.
(3)  GADPEC shall  approve  all  contracts  estimated  to  cost an
amount above $100,000 and, authorize the establishment in ADPMU of
a tender committee  to  be  responsible  for  the  approval of all
contracts estimated to cost  an  amount  equivalent to $100,000 or
less,  being  contracts  awarded   on   the   basis  of  local  or
international competitive  bidding;  provided  that  all contracts
estimated to cost more than $25,000 equivalent shall be cleared by
the Commissioner for  Agriculture.  The  tender committee shall be
chaired by the Chief Executive (ADPMU) and shall include the other
members of ADPMU. The  Chief  Administrative Officer (ADPMU) shall
serve as secretary to the tender committee.
(4)  GADPEC shall have two  subcommittees, namely, an agricultural
services subcommittee to be  responsible for coordinating services
to farmers and  an  infrastructure  development subcommittee to be
responsible for coordinating infrastructure programs. The chairman
of the agricultural services  sub-committee shall be the Permanent
Secretary (MOA) and the  other  members  of the subcommittee shall
include the Chief Planning  Officer  (MOA), the Chief Agricultural
Officer (MOA), the  Chief  Executive  (ADPMU), the Chief Technical
Officer (ADPMU), the Commercial  Services Manager (ADPMU), and two
representatives of the State's Farmers Council. The infrastructure
development subcommittee shall  also  be  chaired by the Permanent
Secretary (MOA) and  its  other  members  shall  include the Chief
Planning Officer (MOA),  the  Chief  Executive  (ADPMU), the Chief
Community Development Inspector (Ministry  of Local Government and
Community Development),  the  Chief  Civil  Engineer  (Ministry of
Works and Transport) and the Chief Engineer (ADPMU).
B.   Agricultural Development Project Management Unit (ADPMU)
(1)  ADPMU shall, under  the  policy  guidelines  and direction of
GADPEC, be responsible  for  the  carrying  out  of the Project in
accordance with this  Agreement  and  the Gongola State Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. ADPMU shall be  headed by the Chief Executive with
responsibility  for  overseeing  the  following  three operational
divisions  of  ADPMU,  namely,   the  agricultural  and  technical
services division, the  infrastructural  services division and the
commercial services division. ADPMU  shall  also have five support
units, namely,  the  administration  unit,  the  finance unit, the
planning unit, the monitoring and evaluation unit and the manpower
development unit.
(2)  (a) ADPMU shall  have  an  executive management committee the
membership of  which  shall  include  the  Chief  Executive, ADPMU
(Chairman), the  heads  of  Departments  of  ADPMU  and each Zonal
Manager of ADPMU. The executive management committee shall meet at
least once every month.
     (b)  No later than June 30,  1989, the following senior staff
shall be employed  and  assigned  to  ADPMU,  namely, a Management
Accountant, an Internal Auditor,  a  Stores Controller and a Chief
Maintenance  Engineer,  all  with  qualifications  and  experience
satisfactory to the Borrower  and  the Bank. The Stores Controller
and the  Internal  Auditor  shall  report  directly  to  the Chief
Executive (ADPMU).
(3)  ADPMU shall establish five  zones  to  be responsible for the
day-to-day carrying out of project  activities. Each zone shall be
headed by a zonal manager. A zone shall have appropriate technical
and support staff and shall look to ADPMU for technical advice and
overall program guidance.
(4)  A zonal development committee  shall  be constituted for each
of ADPMU's zones. Each such  committee shall be concerned with the
planning and review of the zone's programs and the facilitation of
coordination and cooperation among agencies and farmers' organiza-
tions operating in the zone.  The membership of the zonal develop-
ment  committee  shall  include  representatives  of  ADPMU, local
government councils,  the  State's  Farmers  Council,  the CFA and
Page  9
other recognized farmers' groups in the zone.
(5)  (a)  ADPMU shall enter into  arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank  for   local   government   councils   to  undertake  routine
maintenance of roads  rehabilitated  under  the Project. Each such
local government council must  have  a  road maintenance unit with
adequate staff headed by an  engineer or technician experienced in
road maintenance. ADPMU shall assist the local government councils
in setting up the road maintenance units.
     (b)  ADPMU shall, no later than  August 31 each year, furnish
to the Bank  and  to  the  Federal  Agricultural Coordinating Unit
(FACU) the road rehabilitation program and the periodic, recurrent
and routine road maintenance  work programs (including procurement
arrangements) proposed by ADPMU  for  the next following year, all
to the satisfaction of the Bank and FACU.
(6)  ADPMU shall submit quarterly  reports and management accounts
to FDRD and the Bank showing  by each project component actual and
budgeted  expenditures,  statements   of   progress  achieved  and
objectives for the next  following  quarter. The quarterly reports
shall contain summaries of expenditures  and use of funds to date.
The management accounts shall  contain  key operating ratios, par-
ticularly on  inventories,  down-time,  and,  in  the  case of the
commercial  services  department   of   ADPMU,  profitability  and
turnover.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Actions Referred to in Section 2.07.
1.   (a)  Gongola  State  shall,  no  later  than  June  30, 1989,
establish an agricultural institutions  review  team in a form and
with  functions  and  staffing   satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  The
membership of the said team  shall include a public administration
specialist  who  shall  be  the  team  leader,  a  public finances
specialist,  a  financial  analyst  and  an  agricultural services
specialist.
     (b)  Gongola State shall: (i) no later than December 31, 1989
(A)  review  the  operations  and  management  of  Gongola State's
institutions responsible  for  providing  agricultural services in
Gongola State; and (B) using the  result of the review, prepare an
action program for the carrying  out  of any needed reforms in the
said institutions including the  determination of overall staffing
levels and a time-table for introducing institutional changes, and
proposals for  such  additional  assistance  as  may  be needed in
introducing the reforms; and  (ii) promptly thereafter furnish the
said action program to the Borrower  and the Bank for their review
and comments.
2.   Gongola State shall, no  later  than  June 30, 1989, with the
assistance of the FACU enter into arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank with research institutions for the provision to Gongola State
of the scientific services required under Part A of the Project.
3.   (a) Gongola State undertakes that  the seed purchase price to
be paid to  contract  outgrowers  under  the  Project shall be the
prevailing market price for seeds. Seed produced under the Project
shall be certified in accordance with seed certification standards
established by the National Seed Service.
     (b)  Gongola State undertakes to buy from contract outgrowers
at  least  75%  of  its  seed  production  requirements  under the
Project.
4.   Gongola State shall: (i) as  of January 1, 1989 require MOA's
Livestock Department to sell all drugs and vaccines at prices that
will allow the Livestock Department  to  recover the full costs of
the drugs and vaccines; and (ii)  no later than December 31, 1989,
make arrangements, and  establish  procedures, satisfactory to the
Page  10
Borrower  and  the  Bank  for   the  licensing  of  private  rural
veterinary practitioners.
5.   Gongola State shall with the  assistance of FACU: (i) monitor
the costs and products of  its force account road maintenance unit
during the first two years of project execution; (ii) compare said
costs and products with  those  resulting  from the use of private
contractors  on  road  maintenance;   and   (iii)  no  later  than
December 31, 1990 review the  results  of such comparison with the
Borrower and the Bank.
6.   Gongola State shall furnish to  the Borrower and the Bank the
detailed terms of reference,  qualifications and experience of all
consultants and  other  technical  assistance  staff which Gongola
State proposes to  employ  for  the  Project before concluding any
agreements for the  employment  of  such consultants and technical
assistance staff.
7.   Gongola  State  shall  furnish,   and  cause  the  Commercial
Services Department of ADPMU and  CFA  to furnish, to FDRD and the
Bank for their review and  comments the respective survey results,
annual  reports  or  accounts,  annual  work  plans  and quarterly
reports on  the  status  of  their  respective  actions  under the
Project  showing,  among  other  things,  statements  of  progress
achieved, objectives for the  quarter next following and summaries
of expenditures and use of funds.
8.   Gongola State shall:  (i)  no  later  than  December 31, 1990
(A) with the assistance of FACU  and the Bank carry out a mid-term
review of the Project,  and  (B)  promptly thereafter discuss with
FDRD and the Bank the  findings  of the mid-term review, including
any proposed changes in  the  Project;  and  (ii) assist APMEPU to
prepare the project completion  report  required under the General
Conditions.
9.   Gongola State shall annually agree with the Bank the staffing
levels appropriate to the  Project  and  shall not exceed the said
levels without the prior agreement of the Bank and the Borrower.
10.  Gongola  State  shall,  no   later  than  December  31,  1990
complete, and furnish to the Bank and the Borrower the results of,
a review of the responsiveness  of  the private sector to measures
taken under the Project for  the appointment of licensed buyers of
fertilizers and other farm inputs.
11.  Gongola State shall:  (i)  jointly  review  with FACU and the
Bank each  year  the  operations  of  the  force  account units of
Gongola State carrying out  road  maintenance activities under the
Project with a view to  determining the economic viability of such
activities; and (ii) disband,  and  auction  off the road building
equipment of, any of the said units the operations of which can be
shown to have become uneconomic.
12.  (a)  Gongola State shall cause its CFA to include in the mem-
bership of its Board of Directors, a General Manager to be respon-
sible for the  day-to-day  management  of  the  CFA  and two other
members one of  whom  shall  be  a  qualified  banker with private
sector experience in rural credit and  the other shall be a person
with experience in business, law or accounting.
     (b)  Gongola State shall cause its  CFA to prepare and submit
to the Bank and Gongola State every six months semi-annual reports
and management accounts showing  actual and budgeted expenditures,
statements of progress achieved  and  objectives for the next fol-
lowing period of six months. The semi-annual reports shall contain
summaries of expenditures and use of funds to date. The management
accounts shall contain key operating ratios.
13.  (a)  Gongola State shall:  (i)  no  later  than June 30, 1989
prepare and furnish to the Bank  and the Borrower for their review
and comments a plan for the carrying out of the rural water supply
program included in Part  B  (2)  of the Project specifying, among
Page  11
other things, (A) the criteria to be used in selecting villages to
participate in the program, and  (B) the capital contribution each
such village will be required to make to the cost of the wells and
handpumps and the period  over  which  such  contribution is to be
made; and (ii) no later than June 30, 1990, prepare and furnish to
the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  for  their  review  and  comments a
maintenance plan showing  how  wells  and handpumps provided under
the Project are to be maintained on a self-sustaining basis.
     (b)  Gongola State shall require  each  community for which a
borehole is to be sited  under  the Project to contribute (in cash
or kind) at least 10% of  the  capital  costs of the borehole as a
condition for the siting of the borehole.
14.  (a)  Gongola State  shall,  before  any  irrigation works are
undertaken under the Project, furnish to the Bank and the Borrower
for their  review  and  comments  the  results  of the small-scale
irrigation development studies being undertaken in Gongola State.
     (b)  Gongola  State  shall:   (i)  establish  and  thereafter
maintain  at  least  five   pilot  water  users  associations  for
irrigation development; and (ii) develop  and furnish to the Bank,
no later than June 30, 1989,  for its review and comments, Gongola
State's proposals for  the  structure  and operating procedures of
the said associations.
15.  Gongola State shall: (i)  in accordance with existing regula-
tions make suitable arrangements  with  graziers to exclude cattle
from areas to be  forested  under  the  Project;  and (ii) set out
details of the said arrangements  in  the  annual work plans to be
furnished to the Bank.
16.  Gongola State undertakes  that:  (i)  the Commercial Services
Department of ADPMU shall as from December 31, 1990, (A) limit its
farm  inputs  trading  operations  to  wholesale  activities,  and
(B)  retail  its   supplies   of   such   inputs  through  private
distributors, agencies and cooperative  stores;  and (ii) the said
Commercial Services Department shall be  free  to earn a margin of
profit consistent with the  objectives of promoting private sector
retailing of farm inputs.
17.  Gongola State undertakes that  its  CFA  shall, no later than
June 30, 1989, prepare and furnish  to the Borrower and the Bank a
financial  operating  and  staff   development  plan  showing  the
specific  measures  which  the  CFA  proposes  to  take  to attain
financial and  operational  viability  during  the project period.
Until the CFA attains financial and operational viability, Gongola
State  shall  cause  the  CFA  to  refrain  from  lending  amounts
exceeding  60%  of  the  total  costs  of  a  project,  or $10,000
equivalent (whichever is lower)  unless:  (i) there is cofinancing
participation of other  lenders;  or  (ii)  the beneficiary of the
loan contributes at least 50% of the financing requirements of the
project. Gongola  State:  (A)  shall  cause  the  CFA  to maintain
competitive interest rates in all  its lending operations; and (B)
shall require the CFA  not  to  make  loans with repayment periods
exceeding three years.
18.  Gongola State  shall  with  the  prior  approval  of the Bank
appoint external auditors for ADPMU no later than June 30, 1989.
19.  Gongola State shall, no later than June 30, 1989, prepare and
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank for their review and comments
a monitorable plan for  strengthening Gongola State's agricultural
sector development planning capacity.
20.  Gongola State shall take all action necessary to:
     (a)  strengthen MANR's sector policy formulation and planning
procedures; and
     (b)  strengthen   its    agricultural    sector   expenditure
programming and implementation capacity and procedures.
Page  12
                            SCHEDULE 4
                   Gongola State Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (b),
(2) (b), (3) (a), (4) (a), (5)  (a),  (6) (b), (7) (a) and (9) (a)
set forth in the table in  paragraph  1  of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to  $500,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan  Account and
deposited into  the  Gongola  State  Special  Account  pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Gongola  State  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures in  accordance  with  the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the  Gongola  State   Special   Account   has  been  duly  opened,
withdrawals   of   the   Authorized   Allocation   and  subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Gongola  State Special Account may be
made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit into the
Gongola State  Special  Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as the
Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment  of  the  Gongola  State  Special  Account  at  such
intervals  as  the  Bank  shall  specify.  On  the  basis  of such
requests, the  Bank  shall  withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account and
deposit into the  Gongola  State  Special  Account such amounts as
shall be required to  replenish  the Gongola State Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Gongola State Special Account  for eligible expenditures. All such
deposits shall be withdrawn by  the  Bank from the Loan Account in
the  respective  eligible   Categories,   and  in  the  respective
equivalent amounts, as shall  have  been justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Gongola
State   Special   Account   for   which   the   Borrower  requests
replenishment pursuant to paragraph  3  (b)  of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall furnish to the  Bank,  prior  to  or at the time of
such request, such documents and  other evidence as the Bank shall
reasonably  request,  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  for
eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule,  no  further  deposit  into  the  Gongola  State Special
Account shall be made  by  the  Bank  when either of the following
situations first arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
Page  13
               sions of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories,  less the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condi-
               tions with respect to  the  Project, shall be equal
               to an amount equivalent to  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Gongola
State Special Account  as  of  the  date  of  such  notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Gongola State Special Account: (i) was made for
any expenditure or in  any  amount  not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2  of  this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified by the
evidence furnished to the Bank,  the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from  the  Bank,  deposit  into  the  Gongola State Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Gongola State Special Account shall be made until the Borrower
has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the  Gongola  State Special Account will not
be required to cover  further  payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Bank, refund to
the  Bank  such  outstanding  amount  for  crediting  to  the Loan
Account.
