Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2988 UNI
       (Second Multi-State Agricultural Development Project)
                              between
                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated February 27, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2988 UNI
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February 27,  1989, between FEDERAL REPUBLIC
OF   NIGERIA   (the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL   BANK   FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  Parts  A  through  E  of  the  Project  will  (except as
otherwise provided in this  Agreement)  be  carried out by Bauchi,
Gongola, Kwara and Niger  States  of  Nigeria (the Project States)
with the Borrower's assistance  and,  as  part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make  available  to  each  of the Project States
part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
     (C)  Part F  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by the
Borrower; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on  the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
Page  2
conditions set forth in this  Agreement  and in the Project Agree-
ments of even  date  herewith  between  the  Bank  and the Project
States;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted (the General Conditions),
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used in this Agreement, the  several  terms defined in the General
Conditions  and  in  the  Preamble  to  this  Agreement  have  the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Project Agreements"  means  the  agreements between the
Bank and the Project States of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreements;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means  the agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower  and the Project States pursuant
to Section 3.01 (c) of this  Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time,  and  such  term  includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
     (c)  "PCC" means the  Project Coordinating Committee referred
to in Section 3.02 of, and Schedule 5 to, this Agreement;
     (d)  "ARMTI"  means  the  Agricultural  and  Rural Management
Training Institute of the Borrower;
     (e)  "FACU" means the  Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
of the Federal Ministry of  Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural
Development (FMAWRRD);
     (f)  "APMEPU"  means  the  Agricultural  Project  Monitoring,
Evaluation and Planning Unit;
     (g)  "PFT" means a Project Facilitation Team of FACU;
     (h)  "FASCOM" means the  Farmers' Agricultural Supply Company
of the Project States;
     (i)  "Federal Project Account" means  the account referred to
in Section 3.01 (e) (ii) of this Agreement;
     (j)  "State Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.01 (b) (ii) of each of the Project Agreements;
     (k)  "Project"  means  with  respect  to:  (i)  Bauchi State,
Parts A (2) and C (2) of  the Project; (ii) Gongola State, Parts A
through E (except B (1)  (b))  of  the Project; (iii) Kwara State,
Parts A through E (except  B  (1)  (e)) of the Project; (iv) Niger
State, Parts A through  E  (except  B  (1)  (e)  and B (2)) of the
Project; and (v) the Borrower, Part F of the Project;
     (l)  "Project Executing  Agency"  means  PCC,  ARMTI, APMEPU,
FACU, PFT, ADPEC, ADPMU, CFA or FASCOM;
     (m)  "ADPEC" means the respective  committee  or (in the case
of Bauchi State) the authority referred  to in Section 2.02 of the
Project Agreements;
     (n)  "ADPMU"  means   the   respective  agricultural  Project
management  unit  referred  to  in  Section  2.02  of  the Project
Page  3
Agreements;
     (o)  "CFA" means a Cooperative  Financing Agency of a Project
State and  "BCFA"  means  the  Bauchi  State Cooperative Financing
Agency referred to in Part C (2) of the Project;
     (p)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (q)  "Naira" means the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to eighty-five
million two hundred thousand dollars ($85,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for  the  purposes  of Part F of the
Project, open and  maintain  in  dollars  a  special  account in a
commercial bank on terms and  conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Page  4
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section  2.08.  The  Director  General,  Federal  Ministry of
Finance and Economic Development,  is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes  of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objective of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall  carry out Part F of the Project
with due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, and agricultural practices.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations under  the  Loan  Agreement, the Borrower shall,
within the limits of its  constitutional powers, cause the Project
States to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreements all the obligations  of  the Project States therein set
forth, shall take or cause  to  be taken all action, including the
provision of  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other resources,
necessary or appropriate to  enable  the Project States to perform
such obligations, and shall  not  take  or  permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (c)  The Borrower  shall  out  of  the  proceeds  of the Loan
relend to the Project  States  such  amounts as shall be allocated
to the Categories specified in  relation  to the Project States in
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  under subsidiary loan agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Project States, under
terms and conditions which  shall  have  been approved by the Bank
and which shall include interest at the variable rate provided for
in Section 2.05 of  this  Agreement,  repayment of principal in 20
years (including 5 years of  grace)  and assumption by the Project
States of any foreign exchange risk.
     (d)  The Borrower shall exercise  its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreements in such  manner  as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan and, except as the  Bank  shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements or any provision thereof.
     (e)  Without  any   limitation   or   restriction   upon  the
Borrower's obligations under  paragraph  (b)  of this Section, the
Borrower shall:  (i)  provide  in  the  annual  budget for FMAWRRD
amounts   sufficient   to   cover   the   Borrower's   counterpart
contributions to the costs of  the Project; (ii) open and maintain
an account at a commercial  bank  (the Federal Project Account) to
be used exclusively for expenditures  under the Project; (iii) pay
into the Federal Project Account  initial amounts of: (A) $200,000
equivalent (for ARMTI);  and  (B)  $100,000 equivalent (for FACU);
(iv)  pay  into  each   State   Project  Account  initial  amounts
(representing 25% of  the  Borrower's  counterpart contribution to
the first year's project  costs)  equivalent  to: (A) $75,000 (for
Bauchi State); (B) $250,000 (for Gongola State); (C) $250,000 (for
Kwara State); and (D) $200,000  (for  Niger State); and (v) there-
after pay each quarter into  the  Federal Project Account and each
Project Account (commencing from the quarter immediately following
the quarter in which the Loan becomes effective and not later than
the first month of the quarter) the respective counterpart contri-
butions of the Borrower to  the  costs of the Project, adjusted to
take account  of  any  payments  by  the  Borrower  of the initial
amounts specified  above.  The  Borrower  and  the  Bank presently
estimate said counterpart contributions  to  amount in 1988 prices
Page  5
to $16,947,000 equivalent over the Project period.
     Section 3.02. The  Borrower  shall  continue to maintain PCC,
ARMTI, FACU, APMEPU and the PFTs each in a form and with functions
and  membership  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Further  provisions
relating to PCC are set  out  in  Schedule 5 to this Agreement and
further provisions relating to  ARMTI,  FACU,  APMEPU and the PFTs
are set out in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  7  to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition,  respectively) in respect of the
Project shall be carried out  by  each  of the Project States pur-
suant to Section 2.03 of the respective Project Agreement.
     Section  3.05.  The  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the actions
described in Schedule 6 to  this  Agreement to the satisfaction of
the Bank, said Schedule being subject to modification from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of state-
ments of  expenditure,  the  Borrower  shall  with  respect to the
Project:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one  year  after  the  Bank  has received the
               audit report for the fiscal  year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) (i)  of  this  Section  and those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have  reasonably  requested, including a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements  of  expenditure  submitted  during such
               fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               can  be  relied   upon   to   support  the  related
               withdrawals; and
Page  6
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  A Project State shall have  failed to perform any of its
obligations under the respective Project Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower or  a  Project  State  shall have failed to
perform any of  its  obligations  under  the respective Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
     (c)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that a Project State will be
able to  perform  its  obligations  under  the  respective Project
Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of a Project Executing  Agency  or  for the suspension of its
operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement  shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after  notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional condition to  the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section  12.01 (c) of the General Conditions
namely that the  Borrower  and  at  least  one  Project State have
concluded a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreements have been duly authorized or
ratified by the Project  States  and  are legally binding upon the
Project States in accordance with their terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  referred  to  in
Section 6.01 (b) of  this  Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by the  Borrower  and  the  Project  State and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Project State in accordance with
its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
Page  7
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister  of  Finance and Economic Develop-
ment of  the  Borrower  is  designated  as  representative  of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Minister of Finance and
            Economic Development
          Federal Ministry of Finance
               and Economic Development
          PMB 12591
          Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
          Lagos, Nigeria
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               PERMFIN                           21248 (ITT)
               Lagos
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                    By /s/ Hamzat Ahmadu
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
Page  8
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Plant, equip-                             100% of foreign
     ment, vehicles                            expenditures and
     and spare parts                           85% of local
     (excluding                                expenditures
     water supply
     facilities):
     (a)  Bauchi State             327,000
     (b)  Gongola State          4,677,000
     (c)  Kwara State            4,910,000
     (d)  Niger State            4,277,000
     (e)  ARMTI                    411,000
(2)  Civil works                               100% of foreign
     (excluding works                          expenditures and
     included in                               85% of local
     Category (3)):                            expenditures
     (a)  Bauchi State              25,000
     (b)  Gongola State            292,000
     (c)  Kwara State              190,000
     (d)  Niger State              173,000
     (e)  ARMTI                  1,609,000
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(3)  Boreholes, hand-                          100% of foreign
     pumps and well                            expenditures and
     rehabilitation:                           80% of local
                                               expenditures
     (a)  Gongola State          6,594,000
     (b)  Kwara State            6,548,000
(4)  Rural roads                 5,500,000     100% of foreign
     executed by                               expenditures and
     contract:                                 80% of local
                                               expenditures
     (a)  Gongola State          2,960,000
     (b)  Kwara State            3,591,000
     (c)  Niger State            2,218,000
(5)  Farm and veteri-                          100% of foreign
     nary inputs and                           expenditures and
     implements:                               90% of local
                                               expenditures
     (a)  Gongola State          2,537,000
Page  9
     (b)  Kwara State            2,118,000
     (c)  Niger State            1,965,000
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6)  Consultant                                100% of foreign
     services,                                 expenditures and
     training and                              75% of local
     studies:                                  expenditures
     (a)  Bauchi State             518,000
     (b)  Gongola State          1,964,000
     (c)  Kwara State            1,365,000
     (d)  Niger State            1,313,000
     (e)  ARMTI                  1,258,000
     (f)  FACU                   1,294,000
(7)  Operational costs:                        100% of foreign
                                               expenditures and
                                               50% of local
                                               expenditures
     (a)  Gongola State            615,000
     (b)  Kwara State              666,000
     (c)  Niger State              487,000
(8)  Goods and services          1,644,000     100% of foreign
     financed under                            expenditures and
     BCFA sub-loans                            80% of local
                                               expenditures
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(9)  Items included in                         100% of foreign
     additional agri-                          expenditures and
     cultural sector                           80% of local
     programs under Part                       expenditures
     A (7) of the
     Project:
     (a)  Gongola State          6,166,000
     (b)  Kwara State            5,344,000
     (c)  Niger State            5,056,000
(10) Unallocated:
     (a)  Bauchi State             318,000
     (b)  Gongola State          4,303,000
     (c)  Kwara State            4,105,000
Page  10
     (d)  Niger State            2,683,000
     (e)  ARMTI                    495,000
     (f)  FACU                     184,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 85,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "operational  costs"  includes costs of vehicle
and plant operation and maintenance and such other Project related
costs as the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time agree.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures prior to the  date of this Agreement except
that withdrawals in an  aggregate  amount not exceeding $2,000,000
equivalent  may  be  made  on   account  of  payments  made  under
Categories (1), (2) and (6)  for expenditures before that date but
after January 1, 1988;
     (b)  the expenditures of any Project State under any Category
until that Project State has:  (i)  entered into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; (ii) established an ADPMU  and employed and assigned to
the  ADPMU  a   Financial   Controller;   and  (iii)  unified  and
consolidated  its  agricultural  extension  activities  under  one
extension service.
     (c)  the  expenditures  of  ARMTI  under  Categories  (1)(e),
(2)(e) and (6)(e) unless  the  Bank  shall be satisfied that ARMTI
has discontinued  its  farm  project  and  divested  itself of the
tractors and equipment purchased for purposes of the farm project;
     (d)  expenditures under Category (8) unless the Bank has been
furnished with BCFA's financial  and  operating plans and policies
satisfactory to the Bank; and
     (e)  the expenditures of any Project State under Category (9)
unless the Bank shall be satisfied that the Project State: (i) has
satisfactorily  completed  the   mid-term  review  required  under
Part B.2 of  Schedule  6  to  this  Agreements  and paragraph 8 of
Schedule 3 to the respective Project Agreements for Gongola, Kwara
and Niger States; (ii) has  made satisfactory progress in carrying
out the Project;  and  (iii)  has  satisfactorily  carried out the
actions  described  in  Schedule   3  to  the  respective  Project
Agreements.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective  of  the  Project  is  to  increase smallholder
productivity  and  rural  incomes  and  welfare  through:  (i) the
strengthening of agricultural extension services; (ii) improvement
and extension of the coverage  and maintenance of supporting rural
infrastructures;  (iii)  strengthening  of  supporting  commercial
services; (iv) strengthening of:  (A) the management and technical
capabilities  required  to   carry  out  agricultural  development
projects, and (B)  agricultural  policy  formulation, planning and
Page  11
project executing capabilities of  the  Project States; (v) provi-
sion of assistance in the review  of the functions and staffing of
agricultural institutions of the  Project States; (vi) strengthen-
ing of  ARMTI's  programs  and  revenue  base  and  FACU's role in
assisting and supervising project execution; and (vii) improvement
in the procurement and distribution  of farm inputs in the Project
States.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Technical Agricultural Services
(1)  (a)  Unification by Gongola, Kwara  and Niger States of their
respective agricultural  and  home  economics extension activities
(crops, livestock, home  management  and  agro-forestry) under one
service in each State.
     (b)  The holding of  refresher  courses  for extension staff;
and the  provision  of  suitable  means  of  transport for project
duties.
(2)  Agro-forestry and  erosion  control  programs  to  be carried
out by the  extension  services  of  the Project States including:
(i) assistance  to  small  farmers  to  cultivate  fruit trees and
forage trees; (ii)  minor  civil  works  and planting of resilient
grasses (e.g.  Vetiveria  zizanioides)  and  trees  along contours
to stabilize  the  soil  and  control  erosion;  (iii)  fencing of
small cattle exclusion  areas  to  permit  plant regeneration; and
(iv) pilot projects and land-use mapping in Gongola State.
(3)  Programs of adaptive  research  in  Gongola,  Kwara and Niger
States including: (i)  the  maintenance  in  each  of said Project
States of a  research  unit  for  field  trials;  (ii) purchase of
vehicles and trials materials;  and (iii) conclusion of agreements
between said Project States and National Research Institutions for
the provision of specific scientific services.
(4)  Programs to be carried out in Gongola, Kwara and Niger States
for the multiplication of  foundation  seed by licensed outgrowers
to produce commercial  seed  and  the  marketing of certified seed
through  commercial  trade   outlets   and  said  Project  States'
commercial services  inputs  distribution  network  including: (i)
purchase of plant, equipment and machinery for seed processing and
quality  control;  (ii)  provision  of  working  capital  for seed
purchases from contract growers;  and  (iii) production in Gongola
State of pasture legume seed  on  the  Yelwa ranch of the Mambilla
Plateau.
(5)  Programs of animal-powered  traction and crop/livestock inte-
gration to be  carried  out  in  Gongola,  Kwara  and Niger States
including: (i) purchase of ox-carts  and other equipment; and (ii)
short and intensive training courses for project staff and farmers
in animal training  methods  and  cultivation  capacity of animal-
drawn equipment.
(6)  Improvement of animal health  services  in Gongola, Kwara and
Niger States including:  (i)  rehabilitation  of,  and purchase of
essential equipment for, veterinary  clinics,  (ii) purchase of an
electrical generator and minimal  laboratory and vaccine equipment
for the  Project  headquarters  of  each  of  said Project States,
(iii)  purchase  of  vehicles   for  mobile  diagnostic  services,
(iv) establishment  of  a  revolving  drug  fund,  (v) purchase of
veterinary  equipment  and  facilities   for  sale  to  veterinary
practitioners, and (vi) a survey to establish the extent of tsetse
infestation and level of trypanosomiasis challenge.
(7)  The carrying out  of  additional agricultural sector programs
satisfactory to the Bank in Gongola, Kwara and Niger States.
Part B:   Rural Infrastructures
Page  12
(1)  (a)  Rehabilitation of feeder  roads  in Gongola State (about
500 km),  Kwara  State  (about  550  km)  and  Niger  State (about
410 km).
     (b)  Periodic maintenance  of  feeder  roads  in  Kwara State
(about 180 km) and Niger State (about 600 km).
     (c)  Recurrent maintenance of  feeder  roads in Gongola State
(about 950 km),  Kwara  State  (about  1,900  km)  and Niger State
(about 1,830 km).
     (d)  Routine maintenance  of  feeder  roads  in Gongola State
(about 950 km),  Kwara  State  (about  1,760  km)  and Niger State
(about 1,830 km).
     (e)  Establishment in Gongola State  of  a force account road
maintenance unit.
     (f)  Strengthening in  Gongola,  Kwara  and  Niger  States of
local  government  councils'   capabilities   to   carry  out  the
maintenance of feeder roads  including  the provision to the local
government councils of the  facilities  required to carry out such
maintenance.
(2)  Programs for provision  of  rural  water supply facilities in
Gongola and Kwara States including: (i) assisting village communi-
ties to rehabilitate existing  open  dug wells and construct about
500 boreholes and  300  wells  with  hand  pumps  in  each of said
Project States; and (ii)  establishment of village cooperatives to
raise funds for  the  purchase  of  spare  parts  for water supply
facilities   and   for   operational   maintenance   and  eventual
replacement of such facilities.
(3)  Programs for  developing  small-scale  irrigation in Gongola,
Kwara and Niger States  including:  (i)  organization of groups of
farmers into self-managed water  users associations and assistance
to the water  users  associations  to  obtain financing from local
banks for the  purchase  of  materials for constructing irrigation
structures; (ii) training of farmers  belonging to the water users
associations  in  organization  and  financial  management;  (iii)
assisting water users  associations  who  have  irrigable land to:
(A)  establish water  extraction  systems  from streams or shallow
aquifers, (B) survey agricultural  holdings, and (C) establish the
equitable allocation of available irrigation water; (iv) assisting
farming  communities  to  launch  fadama  (flood-plain irrigation)
development programs; (v)  formation  of  fadama development units
for  land  surveying,  drilling  and  test  pumping  of  washbores
including purchase of  equipment  for  said  units; (vi) assisting
farmers to install washbores  and pumps using private contractors;
and (vii) monitoring of aquifer  extraction and water use to avoid
over-exploitation of ground water resources.
Part C:   Commercial Agricultural Services
(1)  (a)  Purchase by  Gongola,  Kwara  and  Niger  States of non-
fertilizer agricultural inputs for sale to farmers; and furnishing
by said Project States to FACU of a list of agricultural chemicals
and products currently  in  use  in,  or  to  be procured by, said
Project States under the Project for a determination to be made by
FACU as to whether the chemicals  or products meet with the Bank's
guidelines on enviromental safety.
     (b)  Program by Kwara,  Gongola  and  Niger States to promote
private retailing of farm inputs.
     (c)  Limited  rehabilitation  by  Gongola,  Kwara  and  Niger
States of wholesale  warehouses  and  the essential bulk transport
fleet of  the  Commercial  Services  Department  of  each  of said
Project States.
(2)  Rural credit and savings  mobilization programs to be carried
Page  13
out in each of the Project  States including: (i) the provision of
technical and operational assistance to Bauchi State's Cooperative
Financing  Agency  (BCFA)  within  the  limits  of  the applicable
legislation of the Borrower to enable BCFA to expand its commodity
trading  operations  and   strengthen   its  savings  mobilization
capacity; (ii) the  expansion  of  BCFA's  equity base and lending
capacity  including  the   provision,   on  terms  and  conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, by Bauchi State  to BCFA of a loan in an
amount  not  exceeding  $1,644,000   equivalent  to  be  used  for
financing sub-loans made  by  BCFA;  (iii)  establishment in Niger
State  of  a  cooperative  financing  agency;  (iv)  provision  of
technical and operational assistance  to the Cooperative Financing
Agencies of Kwara and Gongola States to strengthen their financial
and  credit  operations  and  their  management  capabilities; and
(v) purchase of equipment (including micro-computers) and vehicles
for the CFAs.
Part D:   Project Management
     Program to  strengthen  in  Gongola,  Kwara  and Niger States
Project   management,   administration   and   finance  including:
(i) renovation of the facilities  of, and purchase of vehicles and
equipment  for,  the  ADPMU  of   each  of  said  Project  States;
(ii)   strengthening    of    management   development   programs;
(iii) training in  financial,  stores  and maintenance management;
(iv) assisting the ADPMU of each  of said Project States to design
and   staff   planning,    monitoring    and   evaluation   units;
(v) strengthening procurement  and  materials management capabili-
ties in the Project Executing Agencies of said Project States; and
(vi) strengthening the accounting procedures of said agencies.
Part E:   State  Sector   Policy   and   Strategic   Planning  and
          Institutional Review
(1)  Programs to assist  the  Ministry responsible for Agriculture
and Natural Resources (MANR) in Gongola, Kwara and Niger States in
formulating agricultural sector policy  and carrying out strategic
planning including: (i) the purchase of equipment and vehicles for
each such MANR and the  training  of  the  staff of the MANRs; and
(ii) the preparation or  updating of long-term agricultural sector
development plans and strategies.
(2)  Review by Gongola, Kwara and Niger States of their respective
principal agricultural public service  institutions with a view to
improving efficiency and the finances of said institutions.
Part F:   Federal Components
(1)  Consolidation and  improvement  of  ARMTI's training programs
including: (i) a review and strengthening of ARMTI's courses; (ii)
introduction  of  innovative  training  methods  using indigenous,
multi-media training materials; and  (iii) a systematic evaluation
of the impact of ARMTI's courses.
(2)  Programs to  employ  ARMTI's  training  and  media production
resources (including multi-media  methods supplemented by trainer-
conducted workshops) to  extend  ARMTI's Distance Learning Program
to the work place and to offer specially designed courses for home
study purposes.
(3)  Improving the management capabilities  of the Project Execut-
ing Agencies including collaboration  with  FACU and the ADPMUs in
the design of training  schedules and programs (especially ARMTI's
refresher courses for the extension staff of the ADPMUs).
(4)  Modest expansion of ARMTI's campus to provide for student and
staff housing needs.
(5)  Studies of project-related  issues including: (i) examination
of means  of  expanding  the  role  of  women  in agriculture, the
economics of  tractor  use  and  the  possibilities of introducing
small horsepower tractors;  (ii)  the  development of an incentive
Page  14
scheme for project  staff;  and  (iii)  the  assessment and recom-
mendations for  improving  the  structures  of  state agricultural
institutions.
                        *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
February 15, 1994                              1,555,000
August 15, 1994                                1,615,000
February 15, 1995                              1,675,000
August 15, 1995                                1,740,000
February 15, 1996                              1,810,000
August 15, 1996                                1,880,000
February 15, 1997                              1,950,000
August 15, 1997                                2,025,000
February 15, 1998                              2,105,000
August 15, 1998                                2,185,000
February 15, 1999                              2,270,000
August 15, 1999                                2,360,000
February 15, 2000                              2,450,000
August 15, 2000                                2,545,000
February 15, 2001                              2,640,000
August 15, 2001                                2,745,000
February 15, 2002                              2,850,000
August 15, 2002                                2,960,000
February 15, 2003                              3,075,000
August 15, 2003                                3,195,000
February 15, 2004                              3,315,000
August 15, 2004                                3,445,000
February 15, 2005                              3,580,000
August 15, 2005                                3,715,000
February 15, 2006                              3,860,000
August 15, 2006                                4,010,000
February 15, 2007                              4,165,000
August 15, 2007                                4,325,000
February 15, 2008                              4,490,000
August 15, 2008                                4,665,000
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.O4 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
Page  15
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  Categories" means Categories (1)(e),
(2)(e), (6)(e) and (6)(f) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Part F of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to: (i) $100,000 (for ARMTI), and (ii) $100,000 (for FACU) to
be withdrawn from the  Loan  Account  and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of theSpecial Account 
shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank  from  the Loan Account under the respec-
tive  eligible  Categories,  and   in  the  respective  equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Page  16
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of Article  V  of  the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories  less  the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account:  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank,
deposit into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
                            SCHEDULE 5
               Project Coordinating Committee (PCC)
1.   PCC's membership shall include the following:
     (a)  Director, Federal Department of
          Rural Development, FMAWRRD                Chairman
     (b)  Director, Federal Department of
          Agriculture                               Member
     (c)  Director, Federal Department of
          Fisheries, FMAWRRD                        Member
     (d)  Director, Federal Department of
          Forestry, FMAWRRD                         Member
     (e)  Director of Agriculture Services,
          Federal Ministry of Science and
          Technology                                Member
     (f)  Director, National Livestock
          Project Department                        Member
     (g)  Director, ARMTI                           Member
     (h)  Head of National Seed Service             Member
Page  17
     (i)  Program Managers of all
          Agricultural Development Projects         Members
     (j)  Heads of APMEPU, FACU and the
          Rural Agro-Industrial Development
          Scheme                                    Members
2.   PCC shall meet at  least  twice  yearly to review progress of
all   agricultural   development   projects   (including  on-going
projects) of the Borrower  and  the  States of Nigeria and resolve
any issues of coordination that may  arise in the execution of any
such projects.
3.   FACU shall serve as PCC's secretariat.
                            SCHEDULE 6
        Actions Referred in Section 3.05 of this Agreement
A.   Agricultural and Rural Management Training Unit (ARMTI)
1.   ARMTI shall no later than December 31, 1988 review, and agree
with FACU and the extension  staff  of  each of the Project States
on, the contents of ARMTI's courses to assure the relevance of the
courses.
2.   ARMTI's Evaluation Unit shall  each  year  submit to the Bank
for the  Bank's  review  and  comments  its  annual  work plan and
quarterly progress reports on studies carried out by ARMTI and the
findings of such studies.
3.   ARMTI shall furnish to the Borrower and the Bank the detailed
terms of reference, qualifications  and  experience of all consul-
tants and other technical assistance staff which ARMTI proposes to
employ for the Project  before  concluding  any agreements for the
employment of such consultants and technical assistance staff.
4.   ARMTI shall no later than  June  30, 1989 furnish to the Bank
for the Bank's review and  comments  a work plan of the operations
of ARMTI's Distance Learning Program with: (i) details of specific
activities planned under  the  Program  and the potential audience
which the Program is intended  to  reach; and (ii) a timetable for
the evaluation of the various components of the Program.
5.   (a)  ARMTI shall as from January  1, 1989, take all necessary
action to increase its  fees  (other  than tuition fees) and other
income to  a  level  sufficient  to  cover  at  least  20%  of its
operating costs.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project,
take all necessary action to  enable  ARMTI to effect the increase
in ARMTI's fees  and  other  income  required  under paragraph (a)
above.
6.   ARMTI shall prepare its annual  budget  and a work program on
the basis of project  appraisal estimates, varied where necessary,
to reflect  changes  in  costs  and  project development policies.
ARMTI shall also prepare and furnish to the Bank (for information)
a procurement  program  and  ARMTI's  annual  budget  for the next
following year, and its quarterly cash flow statements.
7.   ARMTI shall: (i) furnish  to  the Federal Department of Rural
Development (FDRD) and the Bank quarterly reports on the status of
Parts F(1), (2) and (4) of the Project showing among other things,
actual and budgeted expenditures, statements of progress achieved,
objectives  for  the  quarter  next  following  and  summaries  of
expenditures and use of funds; (ii) promptly after the second year
of the Project: (A) conduct  a  mid-term review of Parts F(1), (2)
and  (4)  of  the  Project   with  the  assistance  of  FACU,  and
(B) discuss with FDRD and  the  Bank  the findings of the mid-term
Page  18
review  including  any  proposed   changes  in  the  Project;  and
(iii) promptly after the completion of the Project, furnish to the
Bank and FDRD  the  Project  completion  report required under the
General Conditions.
8.   ARMTI  and  the   Bank   shall  review  ARMTI's  non-training
functions and activities no later than June 30, 1989.
B.   Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU)
1.   FACU shall: (i) jointly with  the Project States and the Bank
carry out a study to compare  the cost and benefits of using force
account as against private  contractors  in  the execution of road
maintenance  works  under  the  Project;  (ii)  annually  with the
assistance  of  the  Project  States  compile  data  regarding the
economic viability of force  account  works in the Project States;
and (iii) furnish such data to the Bank no later than December 31,
1990 for the Bank's review and comments.
2.   FACU shall jointly with each  of the Project States carry out
no later than December 31, 1990, a mid-term review of the Project.
3.   FACU shall organize a seminar  for representatives of each of
the Project States, the Borrower and  the Bank to plan and discuss
the scope of the  review  of  agricultural public service institu-
tions to be carried out under Part E (2) of the Project.
4.   FACU shall no  later  than  June  30, 1989, employ additional
engineering staff (i.e., a  Principal Engineer reporting to FACU's
Senior Rural Infrastructure Coordinator  and three Civil Engineers
for  FACU's  regional  offices  at  Benin,  Jos  and  Kaduna) with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
5.   FACU  shall  assist  Gongola,   Kwara  and  Niger  States  to
establish a Program Facilitation Team (PFT) to assist said Project
States in organizing statewide Project activities.
6.   FACU  shall  also  assist  each  of  the  Project  States in:
(i)  reorganizing  its  extension  services  and  setting  up  the
adaptive  research  program;  (ii)  reviewing  and  certifying the
acceptability of work done on  the rural roads program; (iii) pre-
paring  annual  work  programs;  and  (iv)  dealing  with manpower
development questions.
C.   Agricultural Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
     (APMEPU).
     APMEPU  shall  provide   to   each   of  the  Project  States
methodological, analytical  training  and  data processing support
for monitoring and evaluation  activities  and shall jointly carry
out a review of the  Project  promptly after the completion of the
Project.
                            SCHEDULE 7
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.        (i)  Bidders for works included in  Parts B and F of the
               Project shall be prequalified as described in para-
               graph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Page  19
         (ii)  To  the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for goods
               shall be grouped in  bid packages estimated to cost
               an amount equivalent to $500,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Nigeria may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   All goods estimated to  cost  an amount equivalent to $60,000
or more but less than $500,000  per  contract and all works may be
procured under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   All goods estimated to cost an amount equivalent to less than
$60,000 may be procured  under  contracts  awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited  from  a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under  the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 (i) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract  for goods and works esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of  $ 300,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2  and  4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for  such  contract are to be made out
of the  Special  Account,  such  procedures  shall  be modified to
ensure that the two conformed  copies  of the contract required to
be furnished to  the  Bank  pursuant  to  paragraph  2 (d) of said
Appendix shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment  out  of  the  Special  Account  in  respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to be furnished to  the  Bank  pursuant to paragraph 3 of
said Appendix, shall  be  furnished  to  the  Bank  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
3.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
Page  20
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
