Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  06/02/2006 
Report No.:  36420
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Gambia, The 
Project ID:  P082969 
Project Name:  Community-Driven Development Project 
Task Team Leader:  Renato Nardello 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 10, 2006 
Estimated Board Date: August 31, 2006 
Managing Unit:  AFTS4 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (40%);Health (30%);Other social 
services (15%);Sub-national government administration (10%);General water, sanitation 
and flood protection sector (5%) 
Theme:  Rural services and infrastructure (P);Health system performance (P);Other rural 
development (P);Participation and civic engagement (S);Rural non-farm income 
generation (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
12.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
2.20 
 
JAPAN: MINISTRY OF FINANCE - PHRD GRANTS 
4.80
7.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project development objective is the following: rural communities in partnership 
with local governments, are able to plan, implement, monitor, and evaluate development 
activities that address their priority social and economic needs.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project will be built around three components:  
 
a) 
Community Development Facility.  The component will provide villages and 
wards to with grant resources to finance their Development Plans. The Community 
Development Facility will finance community-driven activities identified on the basis of 
a
participatory strategic planning process. The Facility provides an opportunity for 
communities to take charge of local development challenges through experience with 
participatory planning, budgeting, financial management, and implementation of 
development activities. Given the demand-driven nature of the project, participating 
Page  2
villages and wards will have an open menu of social and economic activities, capacity 
building activities, and matching grants for income generating activities. Criteria and 
procedures for use of the Facility will be described in detail in the Project Implementation 
Manual. Technical and fiduciary reviews of the activities will be placed at levels 
corresponding to their area of intervention and their level of complexity. The budget 
allocation for participating villages and wards will be determined via a formula (based on 
population and poverty levels. The investment envelope will be made known at the outset 
of the planning cycle. Each Local Government Authority will manage a Designated sub-
account of the project Designated Account. Designated sub-accounts will disburse the 
defined allocations to villages and wards, which will manage funds to implement their 
Development Plans.  
 
b) 
Strengthening Capacity for Community Development. For all capacity building 
activities, training packages will be defined before project effectiveness and will address 
the technical and fiduciary skills at the different decentralized administrative levels that 
will be necessary to implement the project. In particular, the component will: (i) develop 
the capacity of villages and wards to undertake participatory planning and resource 
allocation based on a simple, results-oriented approach that is grounded in the principles 
of community empowerment, transparency and ownership; (ii) strengthen the capacity of 
decentralized staff to facilitate community-level development planning and investment; 
(iii) strengthen capacities of Local Government Authorities to effectively monitor local 
development plans and to manage and account for funds provided to villages and wards 
for investment activities; (iv) provide limited support for capacity building for key 
sectoral Departments of State, geared toward strengthening sectoral capacities to support 
community-level social and economic activities. This will include developing capacity of 
sectoral extension workers to assist with identification, appraisal, and supervision of 
activities financed by the facility; v) support implementation of the project's public 
outreach campaign, a key instrument for sensitization and learning amongst citizens, 
local governments, and other stakeholders; and vi)support for strengthening 
environmental management capacity.  
 
c) 
Project Coordination, Monitoring, and Evaluation. The component will be based 
on the principles of simple design geared toward effective oversight of technical and 
fiduciary aspects of the project, and will be mainstreamed within Department of State for 
Local Government???s (DOSLGL) Department of Community Development. A Project 
Coordination Team (PCT) will be responsible for oversight of project activities, and is 
justified in The Gambian context because of severe capacity constraints within the civil 
service. Its size will be limited to core functions critical to the project???s success 
(overall coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and fiduciary matters).  
 
Project Monitoring and Evaluation will focus on results oriented data collection for the 
purpose of management decisions and impact evaluation. It will enable beneficiaries and 
DOSLGL to: monitor due diligence, focused on whether project implementation 
complies with World Bank financial management, procurement, and social and 
environmental safeguard policies; Monitor and evaluate achievement of the development 
objectives; evaluate whether the project???s implementation approach will be sustainable 
Page  3
and have the desired outcomes; and assessing project impacts on local governance and 
decision-making, along with evaluating the extent to which project activities empower 
marginalized groups (women, youth).   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will target approximately 600 villages and 88 wards in the six rural Local 
Government Areas of The Gambia. The project could support construction works. The 
exact location of these constructions have not yet been determined. It is expected that all 
construction works will be located in remote rural areas.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt (AFTS2) 
Ms Yvette Laure Djachechi (AFTS3) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The project will have limited environmental and social impacts related to sub-projects 
such as the construction and rehabilitation of feeder roads, health care facilities, and 
vaccination parks, as well as activities related to the planned improvements in 
agricultural production and a concomitant increase in the use of pesticides.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
If left unattended, potential long-term negative impacts of sub-projects could include soil 
and water pollution, air pollution, soil erosion, loss of vegetation, increases in solid and 
liquid waste, including medical waste, pesticide poisoning, and high levels of pesticide 
residues in the food chain.   
 
Page  4
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
The project has been designed to support the Proverty Reduction Strategy of The 
Gambia, and it was determined that this project, through its decentralized approach, 
would be the best suited to assist the country in the implementation of this strategy.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Since the locations and potential negative localized impacts of the future sub-projects 
were not known at appraisal, the Borrower has prepared an Environmental and Social 
Management Framework (ESMF) and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) for the 
purpose of identifying and mitigating potential negative environmental and social impacts 
at the sub-project planning stage. The RPF outlines the policies and procedures to be 
followed in the event that sub-projects require land acquisition. The ESMF outlines the 
environmental and social screening process for sub-projects and proposes capacity 
building measures, including cost estimates. The ESMF includes(i) an Environmental 
Management Plan; (ii) Environmental Guidelines for Contractors; (iii) a Summary of the 
Bank's safeguard policies; (iv) a Pest Management Plan (PMP)for the project; and (v) a 
copy of the National Medical Waste Management Plan.   
 
The Borrower's capacity to implement the ESMF and RPF is limited, and therefore, the 
project will provide the necessary capacity building support as described in the ESMF.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Key stakeholders include the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Health, health care 
personnel, sanitation workers, municipal waste dump site operators, potentially affected 
persons, and private waste collectors, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Local 
Government and Land, and their decentralized structures. Consultations with all relevant 
stakeholders will take place as outlined in the ESMF.  
 
The ESMF, RPF, the PMP, and the Medical Waste Management Plan for the Project 
have been disclosed both in country and at the Bank's Infoshop on February 17, 2006.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
02/15/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
02/17/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
02/17/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
02/15/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
02/17/2006 
 
Page  5
Date of submission to InfoShop 
02/17/2006 
 
Pest Management Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
02/15/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
02/17/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
02/17/2006 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Cultural Property, the 
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
Yes 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
Yes 
Page  6
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Renato Nardello 
06/02/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt 
06/02/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Yvette Laure Djachechi 
06/02/2006 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
06/02/2006 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Mary A. Barton-Dock 
06/02/2006 
Comments:   
