Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H252-GM 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Community-Driven Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 2, 2007  
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H252-GM
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT dated February 2, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II —FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to eight 
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,300,000) 
(
“Grant”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section V of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the implementation of the Project through 
the Department of State for Local Government and Lands in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
Page  3
-
2
-
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the 
Recipient has amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived the provisions 
of its LG Act, so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Recipient 
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V – EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Co-Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of the Financing 
Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
(b) 
The Recipient has adopted a Project Implementation Manual in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
(c) 
The Recipient has appointed external auditors under terms of reference, 
and with qualifications and experience that are satisfactory to the 
Association. 
(d) 
The Recipient has established the Project Coordination Team under 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association with the following key 
staff with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association: 
Project coordinator, community development facility manager, capacity 
building manager, financial manager, procurement specialist, and 
monitoring and evaluation specialist. 
(e) 
The Recipient has recruited a financial controller for at least three of 
the six Local Government Areas (the Effective LGAs) participating in 
the Project, under terms of reference, and with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association. 
(f) 
The Recipient has established a financial management system that is 
satisfactory to the Association. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE VI 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Secretary of State responsible for Finance 
and Economic Affairs. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Secretary of State for Finance and Economic Affairs 
Department of State for Finance and Economic Affairs 
 The 
Quadrangle 
 Banjul 
 
Republic of The Gambia 
 
Facsimile: 
220-4227-954 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA 
 
By /s/ Dodou B. Jagne 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Nils O. Tcheyan 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is 
to support the Recipient’s rural communities in 
planning, implementing and maintaining their priority social and economic investments 
in partnership with Local Government Authorities. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A
:
Community Development Facility
Provision of Subgrants to Beneficiaries for the implementation of Community 
and Good Governance Subprojects. 
Part B
:
Strengthening Capacity for Community Development
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of Wards and Villages to undertake: (a) participatory 
strategic planning, resource allocation, and monitoring and evaluation; and (b) Project 
management including accounting for Project finances and procurement. 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Local Government Authorities to support and 
sustain community development through provision of training in Project implementation 
including financial management, procurement, and environmental and social 
management, to facilitate their technical, reporting and fiduciary oversight 
responsibilities under the Project. 
3. 
Strengthening the operational capacity of the Recipient through: (a) supporting 
the Recipient’s MDFTs in assisting Villages and Wards with the identification,  
appraisal, and implementation of Community Subprojects by providing technical 
advisory services, goods, training including study tours, and Operating 
 
Costs; (b) building the capacity of Key Sectoral Agencies of the Recipient participating 
in the Project; and (c) rehabilitation of Local Government Area offices. 
Part C
:
Project Coordination and Monitoring
Provision of operational support to the PCT to facilitate the coordination, 
implementation and monitoring and evaluation of the Project, through the provision of 
technical advisory services, training, goods and Operating Costs. 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional Arrangements
A. 
Project Steering Committee. 
1. Composition
.
The Recipient shall, at all times during Project implementation, 
maintain a Project Steering Committee with a membership composition satisfactory to 
the Association.  Without limitation to the generality of the foregoing, the Project 
Steering Committee shall be chaired by the Permanent Secretary of DoSLGL, and have 
the Project coordinator, as secretary.  Other members of the said Committee shall include 
representatives from the following Departments of State: Finance and Economic Affairs, 
Agriculture, Health and Social Welfare, Water Resources and Education; and 
representatives from 
the Recipient’s National Nutrition Agency, NGOs and from the 
Gambian Association of Local Government Authorities. 
2. Role
.
The Project Steering Committee shall be responsible for setting policy 
direction and reviewing Project implementation and shall meet at least quarterly. Without 
limitation on the generality of the foregoing, the Project Steering Committee shall 
approve annual work plans and budgets, and review Project Reports. 
B. 
Project Coordination Team. 
1. Composition
.
The Recipient shall, throughout Project implementation, 
maintain the PCT adequately staffed with persons with qualifications and experience and 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, including a Project coordinator, 
Community Development Facility manager, capacity building manager, procurement 
specialist, financial manager, and monitoring and evaluation specialist. 
2. Role
.
The PCT shall be responsible for overseeing and coordinating 
day-to-day implementation of the Project.  Without limitation to the generality of the 
foregoing, the PCT shall carry out tasks that will include: (a) preparation of annual work  
plans; (b) financial management including preparation of interim un-audited financial 
statements; (c) preparation of Project Reports; and (d) procurement. 
C. Financial 
Controllers. 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Recipient shall ensure that a 
financial controller that is acceptable to the Association is maintained in each of the 
Local Government Authorities through out Project implementation. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section II. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Environmental and Social Measures. 
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out Part 
A
of the Project in accordance with the ESMF and RPF, and shall not amend or waive, or 
permit to be amended or waived, the ESMF and RPF or any provisions thereof in a 
manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that environmental focal points are appointed within 
the MDFTs to ensure that Subprojects are implemented in accordance with the ESMF 
and RPF.
 
B. Annual 
Work 
Plans.
 
The Recipient shall submit to the Association for its review and 
approval: (a) the annual work plan and budget for the Project year commencing from 
the Effective Date within two months of such Date; and (b) thereafter, for each 
subsequent year of Project implementation, an annual work plan and budget on or about 
October 31.  The Recipient shall implement the activities reflected in such annual work 
plans in a manner that is satisfactory to the Association. 
C. 
Community Development Facility. 
1. Community 
Subprojects
.
(a) 
The Recipient’s Project Coordination Team shall be responsible for the 
identification of participating Villages within the LGAs in accordance with transparent 
and equitable criteria set forth in the PIM, including without limitation, the population 
size of the Villages and poverty levels.  All the Wards within the LGAs shall be eligible 
to participate in the Project.  Funds shall be allocated to participating Villages based on 
the population size and poverty levels.  The selected participating Villages shall be 
endorsed by the Project Steering Committee. 
 
(b) 
Following the identification of participating Villages within the LGAs by 
the PCT and endorsement by the Project Steering Committee, the Recipient shall 
undertake an awareness raising sensitization campaign, and a planning and diagnostic 
exercise, based upon which a three year Village strategic development plan shall be 
prepared.  The Wards shall also undertake a similar exercise and prepare a three year 
Ward strategic development plan.  Community development assistants or community 
development officers from the DoSLGL, in conjunction with the MDFTs, shall provide 
such assistance as shall be required by the Villages or Wards during this process and
 
ensure that the proposed plans take into account the eligible activities to be financed out 
of the Community Development Facility.  Without limitation to the provisions of the 
Page  9
-
8
-
PIM, proposed Community Subprojects must be consistent with the Village or Ward 
strategic development plans, as the case may be.  Proposed Community Subprojects shall 
focus on social and economic investments including capacity building and income 
generating activities.  The Village or Ward must also establish and maintain through out 
Project implementation a Village Development Committee or Ward Development 
Committee, as the case may be. 
 
(c) 
The Local Government Authority shall endorse the Village and Ward 
strategic development plans through the TAC which shall ensure that the development 
activities at the LGA, Ward and Village level conform to national standards, policies and 
priorities.  Specific Community Subprojects under the said plans shall be endorsed by the 
TAC as part of the tripartite agreement to be entered into pursuant to paragraph C.1 (d) of 
this Section II. 
 
(d) 
Following the endorsement by the TAC of the proposed Village and 
Ward strategic development plans, the Recipient shall enter into a tripartite written 
agreement with the Local Government Authority, and the Village or Ward, as the case 
may be, under terms and conditions that are acceptable to the Association including the 
following provisions: 
 
(i) 
a list of proposed Community Subprojects including indicative costing 
 
that takes into account the requirement that the Beneficiary shall provide 
 
a
contribution of at least ten per cent (10%) of the Subproject cost in cash 
 
and/or in kind, and disbursement modalities; 
 (ii) 
the Beneficiary’s obligation to carry out the Community Subproject in 
 
accordance with the PIM, ESMF and RPF; 
 
(iii) 
the Beneficiary’s obligation to carry out the Community 
 
Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
 
sound technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards; 
 
(iv) 
the Beneficiary’s obligation to open and maintain a bank account with 
 
duly authorized signatories, and to maintain adequate records to reflect, 
 
in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources  
 
and expenditures in respect of the Community Subproject; 
 
(v) 
the Beneficiary’s obligation to maintain through out Project 
 
implementation a Village Development Committee or Ward 
 
Development Committee, as the case may be, and to establish and 
 
maintain monitoring and evaluation sub-committees; 
 
(vi) 
the requirement that: (A) goods, works and services to be financed from 
 
the proceeds of the Subgrant for the Community Subprojects shall be 
 
procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section IV of this 
Page  10
-
9
-
Schedule 2; and (B) such goods, works and services shall be used 
 
exclusively in the implementation of the Community Subprojects in 
 
accordance with the PIM; 
 
(vii) 
progress reporting, and monitoring and evaluation requirements; 
(viii) 
operation and maintenance requirements; 
(ix) 
the right of the Recipient or Local Government Authority, as the case 
 
may be, to inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the 
 
Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
 
construction financed under the Community Subprojects, the operations 
 
thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
 
(x) 
the right of the Recipient or Local Government Authority, as the case 
 
may be, to obtain all information as the Recipient, Local Government 
 
Authority or the Association shall reasonably request regarding the 
 
administration, operation and financial conditions of the Community 
 
Subprojects; and 
 
(xi) 
the right of the Recipient or the Local Government Authority, as 
 
the case may be, to suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary  
 
to use the proceeds of the Subgrant upon the failure by the Beneficiary to 
 
comply with the provisions of the Agreement entered into. 
 
(e) 
After signature of the tripartite agreement referred to in paragraph C.1 
(d) of this Section II, appraisal of the proposed Community Subprojects shall be 
undertaken, and an appraisal form that is satisfactory to the Association endorsed by the 
relevant sectoral line department extension workers in the case of simple Community 
Subprojects and by the TAC in the case of complex and/or expensive Community 
Subprojects that are estimated to cost $15,000 or more.  The provisions of the tripartite 
agreement shall be applicable to all the Community Subprojects. 
(f) 
The VDCs and WDCs shall be responsible for the implementation of the 
Community Subprojects at the Village and Ward levels, respectively.  Without limitation 
to the generality of the foregoing, they shall be responsible for carrying out financial 
management, procurement and the preparation of progress reports on which basis funds 
shall be disbursed for the implementation of the Community Subprojects.  The progress 
reports shall be certified by the relevant community development assistant or community 
development officers, and disbursements effected by the financial controller and chief 
executive officer of the concerned LGA.  They shall also establish sub-committees to be 
responsible for the monitoring and evaluation aspects of the Project. 
 
(g) 
The supervision of implementation of the Subprojects shall be 
undertaken by sectoral extension workers, with such technical assistance as they may 
Page  11
-
10
-
require for this purpose.  Without limitation to the generality of the foregoing, the 
Recipient shall ensure that random annual financial and technical audits are undertaken of 
at least ten per cent (10%) of the Community Subprojects in the participating Villages 
and Wards under the Project. 
2. 
Good Governance Subprojects
:
(a) 
The Recipient shall on an annual basis request the submission of 
proposals from CSOs or NGOs for Good Governance Subprojects at decentralized levels 
of government. 
 
(b)  
Proposals shall be approved in accordance with eligibility criteria and 
procedures that are set forth in the PIM. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall enter into written agreements with the selected 
Beneficiaries under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association including: 
 
(i) 
details of the approved Good Governance Subproject including costing  
 
and disbursement modalities; 
 (ii) 
the Beneficiary’s obligation to carry out the Good Governance 
 
Subproject in accordance with the PIM, ESMF and RPF; 
 
(iii) 
the Beneficiary’s obligation to carry out the Good Governance 
 
Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
 
sound technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards; 
 
(iv) 
the Beneficiary’s obligation to open and maintain a bank account with 
 
duly authorized signatories, and to maintain adequate records to  
 
reflect,  in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Good Governance 
 
 
Subproject; 
 
(v) 
the requirement that: (A) goods, works and services to be financed from 
 
the proceeds of the Subgrant for the Good Governance Subprojects shall 
 
be
procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section IV of 
 
this Schedule 2; and (B) such goods, works and services shall be used 
 
exclusively in
 the implementation of the Good 
Governance 
 
Subprojects in accordance with the PIM; 
 
(vi) 
progress reporting, and monitoring and evaluation requirements; 
(vii) 
the right of the Recipient to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, 
 
plants and construction financed under the Good Governance 
Page  12
-
11
-
Subprojects, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
 
documents; 
 
(viii) 
the right of the Recipient to obtain all information as the Recipient 
 
or
the Association shall reasonably request regarding the 
 
 
administration, 
 
operation and financial conditions of the Good 
 
 
Governance Subprojects; and 
 
(ix) 
the right of the Recipient to suspend or terminate the right of the 
 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Subgrant upon the failure by the 
 
Beneficiary to comply with the provisions of the Agreement entered into. 
Section III. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports. 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this 
paragraph.  The Project Report for the first year of Project implementation commencing 
from the Effective Date shall be submitted on a quarterly basis and furnished to the 
Association not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
For all subsequent years, each Project Report shall cover the period of six months, and 
shall be furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the period 
covered by such report. 
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following: 
 
(i) 
70% of Community Subproject results are achieved; 
 
(ii) 
satisfaction with Community Subprojects results increases by 
 
10% each year in the sample targeted population, reaching up to 
 
90%
by
the Project’s Closing Date; 
 
(iii) 
70% of Community Subprojects are fully functional within two 
 
years of their completion; 
 
(iv) 
100% of annually budgeted funds are disbursed during each year 
 of 
Project 
implementation; 
 
(v) 
all participating Villages and Wards have Village and Ward 
 
strategic development plans, respectively, that are developed in 
 
accordance with the PIM; and  
Page  13
-
12
-
(vi) 
90% of regular and random technical, financial and procurement 
 
audits at the PCT, LGA, Village and Ward levels are 
 unqualified. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation to the generality of sub-paragraph (a) above, the 
Recipient shall carry out jointly with the Association, a comprehensive midterm review 
to assess the status of Project implementation on or about thirty months after the 
Effective Date.  The Recipient shall, not later than one (1) month before such review, 
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association, needed to undertake the review. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than one month after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project 
Preparation Advance was made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the 
end of such period.
 
Section IV. 
Procurement
A. General
1. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
Page  14
-
13
-
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
(d) Community Participation 
(e) Procurement from United Nations Agencies 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procureme
nt of Consultants’ Services
1. Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.   
2
.
Short lists of national consultants
.
Short lists of consultants estimated to cost 
less than $75,000 per contract may comprise entirely of national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Guidelines.
 
3. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultant
s’ Services
.
The following 
table specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
Procurement Method 
(a)  Least Cost Selection 
(b)  Selection under a Fixed Budget  
(c)  Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications 
(d)  Single Source Selection 
(e)  Individual Consultants 
 
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the 
Recipient, the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by 
the Association:  (a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $150,000 or more; (b) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $250,000 or more; (c) each contract for goods or works procured on the basis 
of Direct Contracting; (d) each contract for non-consulting services estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; (e) each contract for consultant
s’ services 
provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (f) each 
contract for an individual consultant estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more; and (g) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm or an 
individual procured on the basis of Single Source Selection.   All other contracts 
shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
E. Procurement 
Agents
The Recipient, may, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3.10 of the 
Procurement Guidelines procure the services of a Procurement Agent with 
the concurrence of the Association. 
Section V. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General. 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance 
with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and of this Section and 
such additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient to: (a) repay the Project Preparation Advance in accordance with 
Section 2.07 of the General Conditions; and (b) finance 100% of other Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  16
-
15
-
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing
 (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the
 percentage of expenditures 
to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(expressed in SDR
)
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be Financed
(1)  Works 
   
 40,000 
 
100% 
(2)  Goods 
   
280,000 
 
100% 
(3)  Consultant Services 
including Audits and Training 
 
1,030,000  
100% 
(4) Subprojects 
 
(a) Effective LGAs 
 
(b) Other LGAs 
 
3,080,000 
 3,080,000 
 
100% of amounts disbursed 
 
(5) Operating Costs 
(6)  Refund of Project 
Preparation Advance 
 
280,000 
 
170,000 
 100% 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.07 of the General 
Conditions 
(7) Unallocated 
  
     340,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 ________ 
 8,300,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or 
2. 
under Category (4)(b) until it is confirmed that the three outstanding LGAs have 
each recruited a financial controller under terms of reference, and with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association. 
3.
 
The Closing Date is April 30, 2012. 
Page  17
-
16
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Beneficiary” means a Village, Ward, CSO, or NGO, as the case may be; 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section V of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; 
3. “Co-financier” 
means 
Japan; 
4. 
“Co-financing” means a grant in an amount of four million eight hundred 
thousand Dollars ($4.8 million) to be provided by the Co-financier to the 
Association, as administrator of the said grant, to assist in financing the Project; 
5. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and the Association, on behalf of the Co-financier, providing for the 
Co-financing; 
6. 
“Community Development Facility” means the facility referred to in Part A of 
the Project, as set forth in Schedule 1 of this Agreement, for the financing of 
Subprojects; 
7. 
“Community Subproject” means a specific social and/or economic investment 
that meets the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph C.1 (b) of Section II of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the PIM, that is proposed by a Village or a 
Ward from its strategic Village or Ward development plan, as the case may be, to 
be financed with a Subgrant from the Community Development Facility; 
8. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004; 
9. 
“CSO” means a civil society organization, duly established and operating in 
accordance with the laws of the Recipient; 
10. 
“DoSLGL” means the Recipient’s Department of State for Local Government 
and Lands; 
11. 
“ESMF” means Environmental and Social Management Framework dated 
February 15, 2006, approved by the Association, setting forth: (a) an 
environmental and social screening process to enable Subproject implementers to 
identify and assess potential adverse environmental and social impacts, offset and 
reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts and in accordance 
with which environmental management plans will be prepared and submitted to 
the Association for its approval; (b) guidelines for preparation of environmental
 
management plans; (c) a pesticide management plan; and (d) a national medical 
Page  18
-
17
-
waste management plan, as such Framework may be amended from time to time 
with the concurrence of the Association; 
12. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005; 
13. 
“Good Governance Subproject” means a specific development activity that meets 
the eligibility criteria set forth in the PIM that is proposed by a CSO or NGO, as 
the case may be, with the objective of promoting good governance at 
decentralized levels of government, to be financed with a Subgrant from the 
Community Development Facility; 
14. 
“Local Government Area” or “LGA” means a Division, City or Municipality, as 
such terms are defined in the LG Act, and for purposes of this Project means the 
following six LGAs: Central River Division North, Central River Division South, 
Lower Division, North Bank Division, Upper River Division and Western 
Division; 
15. 
“Key Sectoral Agencies” means agencies of the Recipient that include DoSLGL, 
the Department of State for Agriculture, the Department of State for Health, and 
the National Nutrition Agency; 
16. 
“Local Government Authority” means a Council established under the LG Act; 
17. 
“LG Act” means the Recipient’s Local Government Act No. 5 of 2002, as 
amended; 
18. 
“MDFT” means a multi-disciplinary facilitation team of comprising extension 
workers from the Recipient’s line ministries and NGOs in a Ward, reporting to 
the TAC at the LGA level; 
19. 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization duly established and operating 
in accordance with the laws of the Recipient; 
20. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenditures incurred on account of 
Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office supplies, 
vehicle operation and maintenance, equipment maintenance costs, 
communication costs, utilities, office rent, travel and supervision costs (including 
transport, accommodation and per diem), bank charges, and salaries of support 
staff, but excluding salaries of members of the Recipient’s civil service; 
21. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004; 
Page  19
-
18
-
22. 
“Project Coordination Team” or “PCT” means the team established within 
DoSLGL with a composition and role described in paragraph B.1 and B.2 of 
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
23. 
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, to be adopted by the Recipient, 
outlining financial management, accounting and procurement arrangements for 
the Project, monitoring and evaluation, and other implementation arrangements, 
as the same may be amended from time to time with the concurrence of the 
Association, and such term includes any annexes to the Project Implementation 
Manual; 
24. 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee with a composition and role 
described in paragraph A.1 and A.2 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
25. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 24, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs; 
26. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of 
the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to 
the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on December 7, 2004, 
and on behalf of the Recipient on January 26, 2005; 
27. 
“RPF” means the framework dated February 15, 2006, approved by the 
Association setting forth the governing framework for land acquisition, 
resettlement and compensation under Part A of the Project, and in accordance 
with which resettlement action plans will be prepared and submitted to the 
Association for its approval, as the same may be amended from time to time with 
the agreement of the Association; 
28. 
“Subgrant” means a grant to be provided to a Beneficiary from the Community 
Development Facility for the implementation of a Community or Good 
Governance Subproject, as the case may be; 
29. 
“Subprojects” means Community Subprojects and Good Governance 
Subprojects; 
30. 
“TAC” means the Technical Advisory Committee established pursuant to Section 
108 of the Recipient’s LG Act to provide technical advice to the Ward and 
Village Development Committees within its Local Government Area with the 
objective of ensuring that local projects conform with national standards, policies 
and priorities; 
Page  20
-
19
-
31. 
“Village” means a sub-division of a Ward; 
32. 
“Village Development Committee” means a committee established pursuant to 
Section 92 (1) of the LG Act to represent a Village or cluster of Villages and 
undertake development planning at the Village level; 
33. 
“Ward” means a sub-division of a LGA, established pursuant to Section 5 (1) of 
the LG Act; and  
34. 
“Ward Development Committee” means the committee established pursuant to 
Section 100 of the LG Act to coordinate and prioritize development planning at 
the Ward level.
 
