Report No. PID7734
Project Name                     Ghana-Agricultural Subsector Services (+)
Investment Program
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Rural Development
Project ID                       GHPE968
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Food and Agriculture
Date of PID                      April 14, 1999
Preappraisal Date                September 10, 1999
Board Date                       April 1, 2000
Country and Sector Background
1.      The Republic of Ghana, with and area of 238,500 sq. km, lies between
latitudes 5 and 11 degrees North and between longitudes 1 and 3 degrees. It
is bounded by Cote d'Ivoire on the West, Burkina Faso on the North, Togo on
the East and the Atlantic Ocean on the South. Its population is estimated at
17 million and growing at the rate of 35 per annum. Agriculture is central to
Ghana's economy, providing employment to the majority (60%) of the working
population, particularly women, and virtually all the nation's food. The
sector contributed 39 percent of GDP and 46 percent of export earnings in
1997, which totaled about US$ 693 million, including canned foods and
beverages. Cocoa and timber dominate, with US$464 million and US$172
million, respectively, in 1997. Non-traditional exports have increased
rapidly in recent years, but still amounted to only about US$ 57 million in
1997.
2.      Since 1983, Ghanaian agriculture has recovered from almost total
collapse. Successive macroeconomic reforms have improved the incentive
framework through exchange rate reform, liberalization of trade and
substantial public sector withdrawal from agricultural production, input
distribution and commodity processing and marketing. GOG initiated a number
of investment programs from the mid-1980s onward to rehabilitate basic
agricultural services, culminating in the formulation of a medium-term
agricultural development strategy in 1990, which aimed at achieving sectoral
growth of 4 percent p.a. The sector has responded well, but growth has been
uneven across subsectors and, in aggregate, not as rapid as is both desirable
and possible. Liberalization in the agricultural sector, particularly in
cocoa marketing, has been slow. Cocoa farmers have been heavily taxed. The
macro-economic environment of high inflation, high interest rates and rapid
depreciation of the Cedi during most of the 1990 decade has not been
favorable to agricultural development.
Project Objectives
3.      The project is the major instrument for implementing the strategy of
the Government of Ghana (GOG) for accelerated agricultural growth and rural
development. GOG intends to increase the pace of the sector's growth from
the current annual average rate of 3-4% to 5-6% in support of attaining the
goals set in its Vision 2020 program of social and economic development. The
strategy is predicated on the premise that such a high rate of growth should



be private-led and export-oriented. The role of the public sector will be to
create the enabling environment for the private sector to boost agricultural
production and diversification, agro-processing and exports. The overall
development objectives of the project are to:
i. increase agricultural production and diversification at a rapid pace so
that rural incomes will be raised, rural poverty reduced, food security
improved and the basis for accelerated overall growth in the economy
established; and
ii. promote farming systems and practices that will ensure sustainable use of
the natural resource base.
Project Description
4.      In order to achieve these objectives, the project will strengthen the
technical, financial and managerial capacities of the sector ministries,
departments, agencies and the district assemblies as well as those of key
players in the private sector in support of GOG's decentralization policy;
and promote partnership between the public and private sectors as well as
linkages with civil society.
5.      The project will have four major components: (i) agricultural
technology generation and diffusion; (ii) development of farmers'
organizations; and (iii) capacity building.
Agricultural Technology Generation and Diffusion
6.      Appropriate agricultural technologies, which address constraints in the
commodity production-distribution chain and that will conserve the
agricultural resource base will be sourced from the national and
international agricultural research systems as well as agribusiness and
disseminated widely to farmers. Key requirements of such technologies would
be solving the felt needs of farmers, food processors, input suppliers,
commodity traders, processors and exporters while at the same time making
possible sustainable intensification of resource use. Policies, rules and
regulations governing the generation, importation, and distribution of
improved varieties of crop seeds, planting materials and animal breeds,
fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides and veterinary drugs will be reviewed and
revised in order to remove bottlenecks that impede or restrict these
activities. Programs would be initiated to encourage farmer to farmer
production and dissemination of improved seeds, planting materials and
improved breeds of livestock. Wide spread distribution of inputs will be
promoted and innovative ways of financing their stocks will be sought in
order to facilitate access of inputs to farmers.
7.      Agricultural Research Services: The governance of the national
agricultural research system will ensure stakeholders' participation in
setting agricultural research policies, priorities and resource allocation so
that it responds adequately to the needs of its clientele. Research-
extension linkages will be strengthened to reinforce this. Agro-ecological
perspectives and sustainable intensification of agricultural production will
be emphasized in the identification and prioritization of research problems
and multi-disciplinary teams made up of scientists in the CSIR system,
universities and MOFA will seek the resolution of these. Bio-technology
- 2 -



applications and methods will feature prominently in plant breeding and
propagation, phytosanitation, including integrated pest management and the
development of vaccines, animal feed, and bio-conversion of agricultural
waste into useful products. The competitive research grant scheme will be
expanded for enhancing excellence in research. Alternative sources of
financing agricultural research would be pursued vigorously in order to
reduce the burden of financing agricultural research on the Treasury (e.g.
voluntary contributions and endowments from industry and farmers'
organizations, research levy and commercialization of research results).
8.      Agricultural Extension Services: Ghana is operating a unified
agricultural extension system (UAES) using a modified training and visit
approach. Important institutional changes are taking place with the
decentralization of MOFA's operations and the envisaged merger of Cocoa
Board's extension services with those of MOFA. These have far reaching
consequences on the functions of various cadre of field staff as well as
important implications for staff recruitment, in-service training, program
planning and implementation, supervision, monitoring and evaluation.
Furthermore, more community oriented and participatory approaches to rural
development are being implemented with good effect in other countries in the
West-African sub region, particularly in soil and water conservation and agro
forestry development. The UAES will be reviewed and modified to respond to
these changes and take advantage of community oriented and participatory
approaches. Appropriate technology that enhance labor productivity,
especially those of women farmers and food processors will be aggressively
introduced by implementing the recommendations of the recently concluded
animal traction and appropriate technology studies under the ongoing National
Agricultural Extension Project.
9.      Extension service to women farmers has not been effective.    Appropriate
steps would be taken to address this imbalance, particularly in getting male
extension agents to be actively involved in gender issues. Implementing the
recommendations of the recently concluded study under the same project will
intensify the use of mass media. Besides the NARS, the UAES will form
partnerships with NGOs, input suppliers, artisans, equipment manufacturers,
agro-processors, marketing agents, exporters and rural finance institutions
to accelerate the diffusion of agricultural technologies and improve farmers'
access to market information and finance. The management of the UAES will be
strengthened at national, regional and district levels and a vigorous
training program will be developed and implemented to enable staff carry out
these functions effectively as well as assist the health authorities in
creating AIDS awareness among the rural community. Strong farmers'
organizations and commodity processors producing and marketing high valued
cash commodities and products will be encouraged and assisted to establish
their own extension service to reduce the cost burden on the Treasury.
10.     Livestock Services,   emphasis would be on: (i) achieving a stable
epidemic disease situation, manageable levels of tsetse challenge and ready
access to clinical services on a financially sustainable basis; (ii)
providing access to improved livestock breeds that are appropriate to dry
conditions and disease prevalence, especially in local small ruminant and pig
breeds; and (iii) overcoming the limitations of the natural resource base,
through access to water and production of better qualify fodder, especially
in communal areas. Active participation of farmers will be sought in the
multiplication and distribution of improved breeds of animals and forage
- 3-



species.
11.     The major issue and challenge for AgSSIP would be to institutionalize
systems and build capacity for animal health services that can be sustained
within an affordable resource envelope. Both central and local governments
would in principle withdraw from the provision of clinical services as soon
as is feasible, through accelerated promotion of veterinary private practice
in towns and peri-urban areas and by the further development of the
successful community livestock workers scheme, pioneered under the ongoing
National Livestock Services Project. A key policy in this regard is the
establishment of mechanisms to contract out the delivery of public sector
tasks such as meat inspection at slaughter houses and vaccination of epidemic
diseases to private practitioners.
12.     Fisheries Services will focus on:   (i) enhancing the legal and policy
environment for private sector participation; (ii) co-management of both
marine and inland fisheries resources with users; (iii) promotion of
aquaculture development; (iv) development of infrastructure for small scale
ports and landing sites managed by user groups; (v) regular and systematic
assessment of fisheries stocks to update management plans; and (iv) ensuring
users compliance with fisheries laws by improving the monitoring, control and
surveillance system.
13.     Small Scale Irrigation Services: . Irrigation schemes were primarily
designed for irrigated rice production which is uneconomic at current price
regimes and are presently operating at extremely low levels of efficiency due
mainly to the deteriorated infrastructures, management weaknesses of the
Ghana Irrigation Development Authority and a lack of sense of ownership by
the beneficiaries. The objectives of irrigation development to be supported
under AgSSIP would be to rehabilitate existing irrigation schemes for about
2,000 ha with beneficiary so that they would take responsibility for
maintenance of the irrigation facilities and broaden and diversify production
of commodities, particularly vegetables and fruits for both local
consumption, export and as source of raw material for the emerging agro-
processing industry.
Farmers' Organizations Development.
14.     AgSSIP will support revitalization of services to promote the
development of strong farmers' grassroots organizations. Farmers'
organizations would be assisted to stock and distribute inputs and to store
and market farm produce. While the Department of Cooperatives will be
strengthened to oversee the proper formation and registration of farmer's
organizations, NGOs and private sector firms will be encouraged and supported
to provide promotion, animation, training and audit services. The extension
services will be strengthened to provide assistance and information on the
technical aspects of the core business of the farmers' organizations (e.g.
specification and determination of quantities of inputs such as fertilizers
and agro-chemicals, irrigation or processing equipment, etc.). Assistance
will be provided to the Cooperative Training College to revise the curricula,
upgrade staff and the teaching environment.
Capacity Building
15.     Public Institutions.    Policy and administrative responsibility for
- 4 -



agriculture is spread over a number of ministries and agencies. A formal
mechanism to coordinate development policies and implementation would be
established. An institutional assessment of MOFA and the Department of
Cooperatives has been completed and that of the national agricultural
research system has been done in conjunction with the National Agricultural
Research Project. The recommendations of these assessments would be
implemented under AgSSIP. GOG has decided to merge cocoa extension currently
being provided by COCOBOD with that of MOFA. GOG's policy of decentralizing
administrative functions to the district level is progressing and is a key
element of its rural development and local capacity building strategy. MOFA
has decentralized its operations, in effect giving the responsibility of
planning and implementation of agricultural programs to the District
Assemblies and Regional governments. AgSSIP will support appropriate
programs for capacity building in these institutions.
16.     Policy formulation, planning, monitoring and impact evaluation
functions of the central directorates of MOFA will be strengthened in order
to effectively backstop the regions and districts in the planning and
implementation of their agricultural development programs. The current
system of collection, compilation, analysis and dissemination of agricultural
statistics and information is extremely weak. This would be addressed with
technical assistance of FAO and donors in the design of the system, training
of staff and its implementation. The Irrigation Development Authority will
be strengthened to provide technical assistance to water users' associations
in water management and to monitor the impact of water abstraction on shallow
aquifers, especially those that lie along the coastal plains and are
susceptible to sea water intrusion.
17.     Civil Society.   Agricultural colleges managed by MOFA and faculties of
agriculture of the four Ghanaian universities will play an important role in
training manpower required by both the public and private sectors. Limited
funds would be made available under AgSSIP for enabling them reorient their
curricula to the manpower and skill needs of the accelerated agricultural
growth and rural development strategy and upgrading their laboratories and
equipment for effective training.
18.     The Private Sector.   A significant portion of the AgSSIP proposals
would be implemented by the private sector, especially those in the informal
sector, which need to be supported in sharpening their tools of trade. A
skill gap analysis will be conducted to identify their needs and training
programs will be organized in business organization and management, finance
and accounting. Such training will be provided by the private sector and the
Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administrations, in collaboration
with other organizations and NGOs which are interested and proactive in this
field.
Project Financing
19.     Project costs are tentatively estimated at US$105 million over five
years of which IDA would finance about US$75 million. The rest would be
financed by other bilateral and multilateral cofinanciers, the Government of
Ghana and project beneficiaries.
Project Implementation
20.     The Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA) will be the lead government
- 5 -



agency for AgSSIP, working closely with the Ministries of Environment,
Science and Technology (MEST), Lands and Forestry (MLF), Local Government
and Rural Development (MLGRD), Finance (MF), and Education and the Department
of Cooperatives. MOFA will also collaborate with other government agencies,
the private sector and civil society in implementing the project.
21.     The Agricultural Research component will be implemented by the Council
for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) of MEST, which coordinates
agricultural research in collaboration with the four national universities,
MOFA and regional and international cooperators. In line with the
decentralization policy of GOG, most of the services envisaged under the
AgSSIP will be implemented at the grass roots level by staff of the District
Assemblies, whose capacity will be strengthened under the project.
21.     Under the coordination and supervision of the office of the Chief
Director, MOFA, the technical directorates of the ministries involved will be
responsible for implementing the policy and institutional reforms and for
providing technical and training support to the regional governments and
district assemblies. The Project Finance and Procurement Unit of MOFA, will
be reconstituted to provide efficient procurement, disbursement and
accounting services A national project steering committee with strong
representation of the private sector and civil society will have advisory and
monitoring roles. The detailed implementation arrangements will be agreed
upon during the appraisal of the project.
Project Sustainability
23.     In the medium to long-term, AgSSIP should make it possible for the
government to generate additional revenue from the increased production and
value added through the development induced by the program. The government
would be able to gradually increase its contribution to public expenditure in
the agriculture sector. The ongoing public expenditure reform program under
PUFMARP is introducing medium-term expenditure framework, tying expenditures
to programs and outputs. This is expected to result in more rational
allocation and use of public funds in the sector
24.     Government will provide a range of technical services under AgSSIP.
Some of these services are amenable to cost recovery or cost sharing. These
services such as clinical treatments, supply of improved varieties of crops
and forage and breeds of animals would be identified and a policy of full
cost recovery will be implemented. Beneficiaries of agricultural research of
export and industrial commodities will be encouraged and given incentive to
partially fund research through endowments and voluntary contributions and
levies. Farmers' organizations and large agri-business firms will be
encouraged to provide extension services to their clientele.
25.     The combination of all these measures would result in eventually
reducing the financial burden of the government in providing agricultural
services.
Lessons Learnt From Past Operations
26.     Past agricultural projects heavily depended on public intervention,
resulting in slow development of the private sector and low ownership of the
programs by the beneficiaries. The private sector will be encouraged to
provide services in input supply, animal disease control and treatment,
marketing and processing by introducing policies and support that will create
- 6 -



the enabling environment. Similarly, civil society and community-based
organizations will be encouraged to participate in co-management of natural
resources, irrigation schemes, water supplies, markets, storage facilities,
etc. and in empowering rural communities to take decisions and participate
more fully in their economic and social development.
27.     Centralized and parallel programs run from the national capital had
wasted resources and impeded development. The programs envisaged under
AgSSIP will be managed in a decentralized fashion, most of the planning,
implementation and decision being made at the district level. While
decentralized management places heavy responsibilities on district
assemblies, their capacity has in the past been low. Measures will be taken
to build their capacity so that they will rise to the challenges of
decentralized rural development in harmony with other Bank and donor assisted
programs.
28.     Research, extension and livestock services had heavily depended on the
Treasury and donor funding. The AgSSIP program will promote diversifying
funding from the private sector through voluntary contribution by the
industry and farmers' associations, through industry-consented levies and
privatization of certain services, such as animal health care. Contract and
competitive research grants will be used increasingly to promote excellence
in agricultural research.
29.     External training of manpower at the Ph. D. and M.Sc. levels Manpower
training has been very expensive, limiting the number of trainees that could
benefit from the available training resources. Such training will be
restricted to the local universities, except in very few disciplines in which
the graduate programs are not available locally.
Environmental Aspects Category: B
30.     Major:   Intensification of agricultural production will require the use
of chemical fertilizers, pesticides, fungicides, herbicides and other
chemicals. Where irrigation is practiced residues can be washed into
streams, rivers and lakes affecting domestic animals, wild fauna and
fisheries. These chemicals can also cause bodily harm if farmers are not
taught on their proper handling. Irrigation from shallow aquifers in coastal
areas can cause the intrusion of sea water , which can damage ground water
sources. The potential environmental impacts of intensification of
agricultural production envisaged under the AgSSIP will be assessed and
mitigating measures taken.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 28, 1999.
-7 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-8-



