Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3405-GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Services Subsector Investment Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 27, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3405-GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter from the Borrower describing a 
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to carry out its accelerated 
agricultural growth and development strategy (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Association to support its execution of 
the Program through a series of Credits over a period of nine years, the proceeds of 
such Credits to be utilized by the Borrower for the carrying out of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through October 6, 
1999, (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"AFFSD" means the Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Sector Directorate 
referred to in Part A.1 (d) of the Project;
(b)
"Agricultural Extension Development Fund"” means the Agricultural 
Extension Development Fund to be established pursuant to Part A.2 (a) (viii) of the 
Project; 
(c)
"Agricultural Extension Development Fund" means the Agricultural 
Extension Development Fund to be established pursuant to Part A.2 (a) (viii) of the 
Project; 
(d)
"AIDS" means the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome;
(e)
"APD" means the Animal Production Directorate of the Borrower referred to 
in Part B.3 (a) of the Project;
(f)
"Beneficiary" means a person, entity or organization (including an FBO 
and a research scientist or specialist) who or which has met the eligibility criteria 
set out in the Project Implementation Manual and the requirements of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement and, as a result, has received, or is entitled to receive, a Grant for 
the carrying out of a Subproject;
(g)
"Cedi" means the currency of the Borrower;
(h)
"CSD" means the Crop Services Directorate of MOFA referred to in Part B.2 
(a) of the Project;
(i)
"CSIR Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement to be opened in the name of CSIR;
(j)
"CSIR" means the Borrower’s Council for Scientific and Industrial 
Research established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
Page  3
(k)
"DAES" means the directorate of Agricultural Extension Services of MOFA 
referred to in Part A.2 (a) of the Project;
(l)
"DOC" means the Borrower’s Department of Cooperatives;
(m)
"FBO Development Fund" means the Farmer-Based Organizations Development 
Fund to be established pursuant to Part C.1 (b) of the Project;
(n)
"FBO" means a Farmer Based Organization, including an agricultural 
cooperative, established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(o)
"GAINS" means the Ghana Agricultural Information Network System of the 
Borrower referred to in Part A.1 (h) of the Project;
(p)
"GCC" means the Ghana Cooperatives Council established and operating 
under the laws of the Borrower;
(q)
"GIMPA" means the Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(r)
"Grant Agreement" means the agreement referred to in paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(s)
"Grant" means a grant to be made to finance a Subproject pursuant to 
Parts A.1 (b) and C.1 (b) of the Project;
(t)
"HIV" means the Human-Immunodeficiency Virus;
(u)
"IAPSO" means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services of the United Nations 
Development Programme;
(v)
"Initial Deposits" means the initial amounts to be paid into the Project 
Account pursuant to Section 3.03 (i) of this Agreement;
(w)
"MESW" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Employment and Social Welfare; 
(x)
"MOFA Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement to be opened in the name of MOFA;
(y)
"MOFA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Food and Agriculture;
(z)
"NARS" means the Borrower’s National Agricultural Research System;
(aa)
"NGOs" means non-governmental organizations;
(bb)
"PCD" means the Program Coordination Division of MOFA;
(cc)
"PPMED" means the Policy, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department 
of MOFA referred to in Part B.3 (b) (x) of the Project;
(dd)
"PPSRD" means the Plant Protection and Regulatory Services of the 
Borrower referred to in Part B.2 (b) of the Project;
(ee)
"Project Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement;
(ff)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the Project Implementation Manual 
referred to in Part A.1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(gg)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the Project Implementation Manual 
referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(hh)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(ii)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on July 28, 1999 and on behalf of the Borrower on July 30, 
1999;
(jj)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
Page  4
(jj)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
July 28,1999 and July 30, 1999 respectively, between the Borrower and the Association;
(kk)
"Project Year" means the 12 month period beginning from the Effective 
Date and ending 12 months thereafter and each successive 12 month period following 
thereafter;
(ll)
"RELCs" means the Research Extension and Liaison Committees referred to 
in Part A.2 (c) of the Project;
(mm)
"SMS" means the Subject Matter Specialists participating in the carrying 
out of the Project;
(nn)
"Special Accounts" means the MOFA Special Account and the CSIR Special 
Account;
(oo)
"Subproject" means a subproject (including research proposals and 
activities relating to the contracting out of agricultural extension development 
services) to be carried out under Parts A.1 (b), A.2 (a) (viii) and C.1 (b) of the 
Project which, having met the eligibility criteria set out in the Project 
Implementation Manual and the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, is eligible 
for financing, on a grant basis, in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Implementation Manual;
(pp)
"UNIPAC" means the United Nations Fund Procurement and Assembly Center; 
and
(qq)
"VSD" Veterinary Services Directorate of APD.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 50,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two separate special deposit accounts in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, the first of the Special Accounts to be in 
the name of MOFA (the MOFA Special Account) and the second of the Special Accounts  to 
be in the name of CSIR (the CSIR Special Account). The said terms and conditions shall 
include appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, 
and payments out of each of the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
Page  5
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2010 and ending February 1, 2040. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2020 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Page  6
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (i) establish and thereafter maintain in 
Cedis, until completion of the Project, two Project Accounts in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association into which the Borrower shall 
deposit its Project counterpart costs contribution. The first of the Project Accounts 
shall be in the name of MOFA and the second of the Project Accounts shall be in the 
name of CSIR. The Borrower shall pay into the respective Project Accounts: (i) initial 
amounts in Cedis (the Initial Deposits) equivalent to: (A) $400,000 for MOFA; and (B) 
$250,000 for CSIR; and (ii) thereafter during each following quarter deposit into each 
of the Project Accounts the amounts required to cover the said contributions for each 
such quarter, as determined by the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
Page  7
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than July 1, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and 
(B) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by 
said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following 
the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Page  8
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has prepared and furnished to the Association a program, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, for the installation and operation 
of a management information system for the Project;
(b)
the Borrower has installed an accounting and financial management system, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association a Project Implementation 
Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(d)
the Borrower has paid the Initial Deposits into the Project Accounts; and
(e)
the Borrower has appointed auditors, acceptable to the Association, to 
carry out the audits required under Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministry of the Borrower responsible for Finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box M40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
ECONOMICON
2205 MIFAEPGH
233-21-666709
233-21-663854
233-21-664170
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
 
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  9
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By /s/ Francis A. Tsegah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works:
95%
(a) MOFA
   4,300,000
(b) CISR
   2,400,000
(2)
Goods,
100% of foreign
vehicles and 
expenditures and
equipment:
90% of local
expenditures
(a) MOFA
   7,600,000
(b) CSIR
   2,700,000
(3)
Training and
100%
consultants’
services including
audit services
(a) MOFA
  10,300,000
(b) CSIR
   3,000,000
(4)
Grants:
100% of amounts
disbursed
(a) MOFA
   3,900,000
 
(b) CSIR
   1,000,000
(5)
Operating Costs:
85%
(a) MOFA
   8,300,000
(b) CSIR
   3,100,000
(6)
Refunding of
     500,000
Amount due 
Project
pursuant to
Preparation
Section 2.02 (c) 
Page  10
Advance
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
   3,800,000
TOTAL
  50,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of maintenance of vehicles, fuel, equipment, office 
supplies, utilities, consumables, travel per diems and allowances and travel and 
accommodation but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
a Grant unless the Beneficiary concerned has entered into a Grant 
Agreement with the Borrower and the Grant in question has been made in accordance with 
the procedures and other provisions set out or referred to in the Project Operational 
Manual and this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) civil works under contracts costing 
less than $250,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than 
$200,000 equivalent each; (iii) consulting services under contracts costing less than: 
(A) $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms; and (B) $50,000 equivalent each for 
individual consultants; and (iv) all Operating Costs and training.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project, which forms the first phase of the Program, is to 
increase agricultural productivity and diversification at a rapid pace so that rural 
incomes will be raised, rural poverty reduced, food security improved and the basis 
for accelerated overall growth in the economy established on an environmentally 
sustainable basis.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Technology Generation and Diffusion
1.
Agricultural Research Development
(a)
Support for the Borrower’s on-going agricultural research programs, and 
review of the said programs on the basis of priority setting mechanisms developed and 
revised from time to time, including: (i) release and uptake of new technologies 
designed to increase agricultural productivity and reduce poverty; (ii) conservation 
and enhancement of the natural resources base through the intensification of farming 
systems; (iii) increasing the participation of farmers and other stakeholders in the 
governance and financing of the NARS; and (iv) strengthening of the technical, 
administrative, planning, monitoring and financial management capabilities of the 
NARS.
Page  11
(b)
The establishment of a competitive agricultural research grant scheme to 
support demand-driven research and provide research funds for good research proposals, 
including: (i) research and development involving pilot projects demonstrating 
potential for improved technologies or for development of research products into 
commercial products; (ii) promotion of partnership between research and non-research 
groups in the private sector; and (iii) support for international research 
collaboration involving (A) participation with the private sector and NGOs, (B) rapid 
technology transfer, and (C) cost recovery possibilities.
(c)
The establishment of an Agricultural Research Policy Committee in CSIR 
to: (i) provide policy guidance on agricultural research; (ii) review the overall 
workplan and budget for the NARS; and (iii) assist in the raising of funds for 
agricultural research from public and private sectors.
(d)
The strengthening of the natural resources, social science, and 
monitoring and evaluation capabilities of the Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries 
Sector Directorate (AFFSD), including the provision of short-term technical advisory 
services to develop the skills of AFFSD’s staff.
(e)
The restructuring of the Borrower’s national research programs to 
include: (i) national commodity programs; (ii) national factor programs; (iii) natural 
resource management programs; (iv) national social science programs; and (v) on-farm 
adaptive research programs for each agro-ecological zone.
(f)
Upgrading of the Borrower’s agricultural research laboratories; reviewing 
of the capacity and needs of the agricultural research services; formulation of a 
national strategic plan for developing biotechnology capacity, including the 
development of a regulatory framework of intellectual property rights and biosafety; 
the provision of short-term technical advisory services; and the acquisition of 
equipment for the agricultural research development services.
(g)
The carrying out of a human development program, including: (i) the 
training of Project research staff; (ii) competitive awards of training fellowships; 
(iii) post-graduate training awards; (iv) training primarily at national universities; 
(v) thesis research on national problems for external PhD awards; and (vi) fellowships 
for regional or international conferences.
(h)
The provision of training for staff and users of the Ghana Agricultural 
Information Network System (GAINS), and updating and improvement of GAINS linkages 
with agricultural databases and universities; and monitoring of GAINS products.
(i) 
The carrying out of in-country and external training courses for the 
staff of AFFSD.
2.
Agricultural Extension and Technology Diffusion
(a)
The reform and strengthening of the Borrower’s national agricultural 
extension system, including: (i) facilitation of clients and the private sector 
participation in extension activities; (ii) the provision of support to the 
Directorate of Agricultural Extension Services (DAES) and the regional and district 
directorates of agriculture; (iii) training of extension staff and farmers; (iv) study 
tours for extension staff; (v) provision of office buildings and accommodation in the 
field for extension staff; (vi) acquisition of vehicles and equipment for extension 
work; (vii) the provision of technical advisory services; and (viii) the establishment 
of an Agricultural Extension Development Fund to be used for the contracting out of 
extension services.
(b)
Ensuring proper consideration of gender and equity issues in extension 
activities, including: (i) the training of extension staff to understand and be 
sensitive to gender issues; (ii) the development by MOFA of strategies to (A) increase 
female enrollment in the agricultural colleges, and (B) ensure a uniform study 
curriculum for both males and females in said colleges; and (iii) the training and 
assignment of women facilitators to serve as focal points for reaching women in the 
farming communities.
(c)
Facilitating agricultural extension linkages in technology, including the 
Page  12
setting up of committees at the district level to facilitate the participation of 
farmers, traders, input suppliers and agro-processors in the work of the 
Research-Extension Liaison Committees (RELCs).
(d)
The carrying out of a natural resource management scheme, including: (i) 
the scaling up of pilot soil and water conservation programs; and (ii) collaboration 
with the Borrower’s Savanna Resources Management Center in extension activities.
(e)
Training of extension agents in the techniques and dynamics of group 
formation by the Department of Cooperatives, the Ghana Cooperative Council and 
selected NGOs.
(f)
Support for the activities of the Borrower’s Ministry of Health to make 
the rural communities aware of HIV/AIDS and its prevention, including the training of 
extension services staff by specialists from said Ministry on the best means of 
providing basic information on HIV/AIDS in the rural areas.
(g)
The strengthening of the Information Support Unit of MOFA to: (i) produce 
extension leaflets, posters, audio-visual materials on agricultural development and 
research; and (ii) promote the systematic and more appropriate use of the mass media, 
including (A) the contracting out to the private sector of the production of some 
audio-visual teaching aids, and (B) the use of the distance learning centers 
established at GIMPA and the University of Ghana to link up extension staff and 
leaders of farmers’ organizations with their counterparts in other parts of the world 
with regard to technology transfer and diffusion.
Part B:
Institutional Reform
1.
Restructuring and strengthening of MOFA within the framework of the Borrower’s 
decentralization policy, including: (i) the development of the skills of MOFA’s staff 
to formulate national policies, carry out regional development programs, ensure the 
efficient of delivery of regulatory services, provide information, technical support 
and training services to the regions, and monitor and evaluate the impact of policies 
and development programs; and (ii) review of MOFA’s organization, staffing levels and 
management.
2.
(a)
The strengthening of MOFA’s crop production and protection services, 
including: (i) the expansion of the functions and activities of its Crop Services 
Directorate (CSD) to enable CSD to deal with issues related to input supplies, 
production, on-farm and off-farm storage, agro-processing and domestic and export 
marketing; (ii) the provision of training and technical advisory services to CSD to 
assist it in carrying out its expanded functions; (iii) the maintenance by CSD of an 
up to date database on each crop industry; (iv) the dissemination by CSD of up to date 
production and market information to the crop industry; and (v) the provision of 
logistical support to CSD including the acquisition of office equipment and vehicles.
(b)
Upgrading of the capacities of MOFA’s Plant Protection and Regulatory 
Services (PPRSD) in human resources, information management, policy analysis and the 
provision of advice, including: (i) the equipping of PPRSD’s laboratories; (ii) the 
training of staff of PPRSD in plant quarantine, seed certification and pesticide 
management; (iii) the development by PPRSD of a manual for the maintenance of  food 
quality and safety, collection and processing of information on plant protection and 
the regulatory services nationwide; and (iv) the dissemination by PPRSD of information 
to stakeholders through publications and databank maintained by PPRSD.
3.
(a)
Reorienting the functions of MOFA’s Animal Production Directorate (APD) 
and strengthening its capabilities, including: (i) the training of staff of APD; (ii) 
the provision to APD of farm buildings, equipment and machinery and other logistical 
support; (iii) the carrying out of a study to (A) design appropriate extension 
packages, especially for the poor, and (B) provide guidance in  livestock research; 
(iv) the transfer of APD’s dairy collection and marketing activities around Accra to 
FBOs and to APD’s dairy cattle breeding farm at Amrahia; (v) the scaling down of said 
activities to a self-supporting facility of APD; (vi) the expansion of APD’s program 
of improving communal grazing land; (vii) the carrying out of a study to assess the 
degree of access of the poor to improved communal pastures; (viii) improving local 
breeds of sheep, goats and pigs; (ix) the management by APD of six breeding stations 
at Amrahia, Babile, Ejura, Kintampo, Nungua and Pong-Tamale; (x) the relaunching of 
Page  13
APD’s Open Nucleus Breeding System to (A) expand the selection base of livestock, and 
(B) incorporate in APD’s recording system about 1,000 breeding animals from livestock 
farmers; and (xi) the conservation of the West African Shorthorn cattle including the 
carrying out of a study to determine the best means of effecting the said 
conservation.
(b)
The establishment of sustainable private-sector based animal health 
delivery systems, including: (i) the expansion of privatization of clinical services 
in urban areas; (ii) the carrying out of a study into the feasibility of delivering 
services through private sector contractors and community-based livestock workers; 
(iii) the development of strategies for the commercialization or privatization of 
diagnostic vaccine production facilities; (iv) the review of legislation on veterinary 
medical practice and privatization of delivery of animal health services; (v) the 
management of the APD’s and VSD’s livestock revolving fund in a transparent and 
accountable manner; (vi) the preparation by APD’s Tsetse Unit of a program for tsetse 
control involving (A) close community participation in the planning and financing of 
the tsetse control activities, and (B) the preparation of detailed plans for 
community-based tsetse control and an environmental impact assessment of tsetse 
control activities; (vii) the development and validation of new disease control 
methods, including the development of (A) a thermo-stable vaccine against Newcastle 
Disease, and (B) appropriate control strategies against heartwater and dermatophilosis 
and other new disease challenges; (viii) the carrying out of a feasibility study into 
the development of virology diagnostic facilities; (ix) the training of staff of APD s 
Veterinary Services Directorate (VSD) in (A) the analysis of epidemiological data and 
the provision of technical support for decentralized services, (B) the monitoring of 
services contracted out, and (C) the privatization and commercialization of delivery 
of animal health services; and (x) the maintenance in MOFA’s Policy, Planning, 
Monitoring and Evaluation Department (PPMED) of livestock specific expertise and focus 
through the reintegration of the Borrower’s Livestock Planning and Information Unit 
(LPIU) into the structure of PPMED.
4.
(a)
The management of fisheries resources, including: (i) the preparation of 
a fisheries management plan; and (ii) the establishment of a Monitoring Control and 
Surveillance Fund (MCS Fund).
(b)
Strengthening fishing stock assessment both in the marine and Lake Volta, 
including: (i) the acquisition of equipment; (ii) the training of Project staff;  
(iii) the transfer of the Marine fisheries Research Division to the Council for 
Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR); (iv) the merger of the Fisheries Division 
of the Borrower’s Water Research Institute with the Marine Fisheries Research 
Division; and (v) review of national fisheries resources management plans by the 
Fisheries Management Plans Operations Committee (FMPOC).
(c)
Promoting aquaculture development to increase fish production through 
private sector initiative, including the promotion of the formation of fish-farmers 
associations.
5.
Strengthening and utilizing the Borrower’s agricultural engineering services to 
reduce the drudgery of farm work, particularly for women, including: (i) the 
introduction of intermediate technology tools and implements; (ii) the establishment 
by DAES of a rural technology information unit to make appropriate technology 
information readily available and disseminate said information through the mass media; 
and (iii) the provision by DAES of training for local manufacturers, artisans and 
blacksmiths to improve their skills and products.
6.
Strengthening MOFA’s agricultural statistics services, including: (i) the 
establishment of an operational food and agriculture statistics system for (A) 
supporting policy formulation and decision making processes, planning and the carrying 
out of agricultural development programs, (B) monitoring and evaluating the impacts of 
policies and development programs, and (C) estimating the contribution of the 
agriculture sector to the Gross Domestic Product; (ii) development by the Statistics, 
Research and Information Department (SIRD) of an agricultural surveys and reporting 
system that includes a Multi-round Annual Commodities Survey Program, and an 
agricultural sector structural survey; (iii) the revision of the existing monthly crop 
monitoring and reporting system to provide quantitative as well as qualitative 
information; (iv) the carrying out of a comprehensive agricultural sector survey to 
provide up to date information on the basic profile of the agricultural sector; (v) 
the design of a national food and agricultural statistics database; (vi) the carrying 
out of data analysis and special studies as well as other analytical studies 
Page  14
out of data analysis and special studies as well as other analytical studies 
identified by PPMED and other directorates of MOFA; (vii) the development of a 
suitable national early warning and food information system to enable MOFA to deal 
with any natural calamities that may arise; and (viii) the strengthening of market 
information and intelligence services, including the development of an agricultural 
market information service to provide comprehensive and timely price information to 
producers, traders and exporters.
7.
(a)
Restructuring and strengthening of PPMED, including: (i) provision of 
in-service training in policy analysis, program planning, monitoring and evaluation; 
(ii) the strengthening of the staffing resources of PPMED, including (A) the 
recruitment and assignment of additional staff to PPMED, (B) the provision of short 
and long term technical advisory services, and (C) the contracting out of some of 
PPMED’s work to the specialized economic institutions in the country.
(b)
The operation and maintenance by PPMED of a monitoring and evaluation 
system to (A) provide information to program planners, managers and policy makers, (B) 
facilitate the tracking and assessment of performance, and (C) assist in the 
evaluation of the impact of policy and development interventions.
Part C:
Development of Farmer-Based Organizations
1.
(a)
Establishment at grass-root levels of farmer-based organizations (FBOs), 
including: (i) the development of policies and legal framework that will sustain the 
FBOs and NGOs; (ii) the strengthening of the capacity of agencies responsible for or 
assisting in the promotion and development of FBOs; and (iii) the purchase of vehicles 
to facilitate the mobility of said agencies.
(b)
The establishment of a Farmer-Based Organizations Development Fund to: 
(i) spur the development of FBOs; and (ii) provide matching grants for subprojects 
such as: (A) innovative proposals for economic activities of the FBOs; (B) 
rehabilitation of FBO facilities; (C) vertical integration of FBOs and development of 
services for the needs of FBOs; and (D) upgrading of the human capacity in the FBOs.
2.
(a)
The preparation by DOC of proposals for: (i) a draft cooperative policy 
document to be issued by the Borrower; (ii) a revision of the regulatory framework for 
cooperatives; and (iii) the revision of the draft law relating to cooperative 
societies.
(b)
The carrying out of a study into the future role of the GCC as an apex 
organization for FBOs; training of staff of GCC; and the setting up by GCC of an audit 
unit to take over the functions of DOC relating to the auditing of the accounts of 
cooperative societies.
(c)
The conduct of a publicity campaign to provide a forum for discussions 
of: (i) the draft proposals for the revision of the laws relating to the cooperative 
societies and the Borrower’s policies relating thereto; and (ii) the proposed draft 
law relating to NGOs.
3.
Strengthening the capabilities of the Ministry of Employment and Social Welfare 
(MESW) to carry out its functions, including: (i) MESW’s functions relating to (A) the 
formulation of policies for the registration and operation of NGOs, and (B) the 
establishment of a reliable computerized database on NGOs; (ii) the training of staff 
of MESW on (A) the objectives and activities of NGOs, and (B) the Borrower’s policies 
and regulations on NGOs; and (iii) the carrying out of research and studies on the 
impact and effectiveness of NGOs’ operations in the Borrower’s territory.
4.
(a)
The carrying out by GCC in collaboration with NGOs of an education 
program for members of the FBOs, including: (i) the preparation, in collaboration with 
stakeholders, of a national education and training plan for FBOs which will initially 
be carried out in two selected regions of the country; (ii) the provision of technical 
advisory services to assist in the preparation of said plan.
(b)
Upgrading of the Ghana Cooperative College and transforming it into a 
College of Farmer-Based Organizations, including: (i) expansion of the role of the 
College to include other formalized training for group-based organizations beside 
cooperative societies; (ii) the preparation (A) with the support of ILO, of a 
Page  15
strategic plan for complementary institutional arrangements and the making of 
improvements to the College, and (B) of a strategic plan for the development of the 
said College into an autonomous and sustainable private sector training institute for 
cooperatives and FBOs; (iii) the provision of training equipment and other logistical 
support for the upgrading of the College’s training program; and (iv) a limited 
expansion of the College’s physical structure in conformity with the demands of its 
restructuring plan.
5.
The carrying out of a program to familiarize members, officials and policymakers 
of the Cooperative movement in Ghana with the experiences garnered by the 
international cooperative community, including: (i) cooperative legislation and 
development; (ii) cost effective cooperative education and training; (iii) marketing 
systems; (iv) agricultural extension methodology; and (v) micro-finance institutions 
in developing countries and participation in international micro-finance training.
6.
The carrying out of a program to draw attention to gender issues in the 
development of FBOs, including the initiation and carrying out of measures to: (i) 
close the gender gap particularly in the rural areas; and (ii) compel proper 
consideration of gender issues in the preparation and carrying out of the development 
programs of the FBOs.
Part C:
Strengthening Agricultural Education and Training
1.
The strengthening of the capacity of agricultural training colleges and farm 
institutes to produce the middle level human resources and skills required for the 
sustained development of the agriculture sector through: (i) a review of Ghana’s 
agricultural education strategy and the revision of the curricula of the colleges and 
the institutes to meet the skill needs of the private sector; (ii) the inclusion of 
the private sector, FBOs and NGOs on the boards of the said colleges and institutes; 
(iii) the recruitment of new teaching staff and upgrading skills of existing teaching 
staff; and (iv) rehabilitation of the infrastructure, transport and equipment of the 
colleges.
2.
The strengthening of MOFA’s Human Resources Development Directorate, including 
the provision to the said Directorate of training, transport and office equipment.
3.
(a)
The introduction of a new curriculum for diploma level courses at the 
Kwadaso Agricultural College.
(b)
The revision of the curricula of five other agricultural colleges to meet 
the skill demands of the private sector; and the carrying out of a skill demand study 
to assist with the design of the revised curricula.
(c)
The provision of text and reference books, visual aids and equipment for 
the Program.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
Page  16
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods
shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for civil works 
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,800,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,900,000 equivalent
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,900,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which should be procured as an extension of an existing contract purchased 
from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment and costing 
$100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods of scientific nature and specialized equipment but not exceeding an 
aggregate amount of $500,000
may be procured from UNIPAC or IAPSO accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Page  17
5.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for subprojects shall be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
6.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,900,000
equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, and each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more
 the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Page  18
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing and works engineering services may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for lectures and the carrying out of studies estimated to cost less 
than $30,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply with respect to:
(i)
each contract for the employment of (A) consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and (B) individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more;
(ii)
the following matters relating to the procurement of consultant 
services, namely: (A) the terms of reference of all consultants’ 
services contracts, (B) the short list or lists of consultants, 
(C) budgets, selection procedures and criteria, and (D) letters of 
Page  19
invitation and evaluation reports;
(iii)
consulting assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Association; and
(iv)
amendments of contracts raising the total contract value to (A) 
$100,000 equivalent for consulting firms, and (B) $50,000 
equivalent.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Project 
Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association setting 
out details of all procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria required for the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Manual 
if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and 
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31 and September 30 of each year, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by April 30 and October 31, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter. The first such exchange of views shall take place no later than six months 
after the Effective Date.
(d)
The progress report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Schedule shall 
cover, amongst other things:
(i)
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project in the 
Page  20
previous 6 months;
(ii) 
analysis of the reasons for not achieving the targets and plans 
for improving performance accordingly;
(iii)
targets and activities to be carried out in the coming six months, 
including work, training and procurement plans;
(iv) 
administration and financial operation of the Project;
(v) 
operating costs; and
(vi)
the results of the most recent external audits of a representative 
sample of Subprojects, a review of procurement, a description of 
monitoring activities of the quality and timeliness of the 
carrying out of Subprojects and a summary of the impact of the 
most recent Subprojects.
2.
Midterm Review
No later than eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall 
carry out, jointly with the Association, a midterm review of the progress made in 
carrying out the Project (the Midterm Review). The Midterm Review shall cover among 
other things:
(i)
an assessment of (A) work programs prepared as of the date of the 
Midterm Review and the progress made in carrying out the said 
programs, (B) training provided under the Project, (C) procurement 
under the Project, (D) the extent to which the indicators set out 
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement have been carried out, and (E) 
plans made or proposed for updating said indicators; and
(ii)
a review of the state of maintenance of the infrastructure 
rehabilitated and constructed under the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
no later than July 31, 2000 establish in a form and with functions, 
staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association the Agricultural Research 
Policy Committee referred to in Part A.1 (c) of the Project;
(b)
no later than September 1, 2000 establish, in a form and with functions, 
staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association, a board for the management of 
the Agricultural Research Grant Scheme included in Part A.1 (b) of the Project, which 
shall be composed of three representatives of the agricultural research institutes 
participating in the Project and one representative each of the AFFSD and MOFA and two 
representatives of CSIR;
(c)
no later than the end of the second Project Year, through CSIR, prepare a 
study satisfactory to the Association on the rationalization of the management and 
operations of the research institutes and research stations managed under the national 
agricultural research system;
(d)
no later than March 31, 2001, prepare and furnish an agricultural 
extension policy document satisfactory to the Association which, inter alia, outlines: 
(i) the proposed plans for the development of extension services in the Borrower’s 
territory over the next ten years; and (ii) the results of consultations held among 
representatives of farmers’ organizations, NGOs, members of the academic and research 
community and agribusiness and other stakeholders in agricultural research 
development;
(e)
no later than August 31, 2000 prepare and furnish a draft manual, 
satisfactory to the Association, for the management of the Agricultural Extension 
Development Fund, setting out: (A) the terms of reference and composition of the Board 
Page  21
of Trustees to manage the said Fund; (B) the criteria for eligibility of applicants 
for Grants and for the award of contracts under the said Fund; (C) the procedures for 
the withdrawal of moneys from the Fund’s account and the disbursement of said funds to 
contractors; and (D) the monitoring and evaluation of contractors’ performance; and
(f)
no later than September 30, 2000 appoint a Board of Trustees satisfactory 
to the Association to manage the Agricultural Extension Development Fund.
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall, no later than September 30, 2000, furnish to the 
Association a memorandum of understanding, satisfactory to the Association, between 
the MESW, GCC and the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance setting out: (i) GCC’s program 
for (A) the joint promotion of grass roots FBOs, and (B) providing audit services 
under the Project; (ii) the terms and conditions under which funds will be made 
available to GCC under the Project; and (iii) the procedures for the monitoring and 
evaluation of GCC’s performance under the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, no later than December 31, 2000, prepare, with the 
assistance of the International Labor Organization, and furnish to the Association, a 
business plan acceptable to the Association for the operation and management of GCC.
(c)
The Borrower shall, no later than December 31, 2000, prepare a plan of 
action satisfactory to the Association for improving, on a sustainable basis, the 
financial condition and management of the Cooperative College.
(d)
(i)
The Borrower shall, no later than August 31, 2000, prepare a 
manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, for 
the management of the FBO Development Fund setting out: (i) the 
terms of reference and composition of the Board of Trustees of the 
said Fund; (ii) the criteria for (A) determining the eligibility 
of applicants for Grants, and (B) award of the Grants; (iii) the 
procedures for the withdrawal of funds from the account of the FBO 
Development Fund (which shall be opened in a commercial bank); 
(iv) the procedures for the disbursement of proceeds of the Grant 
to Beneficiaries; and (v) the monitoring and evaluation of the 
performance of the Beneficiary under the Project.
(ii)
The composition of the said Board of Trustees shall be 
satisfactory to the Association and the Board shall be established 
no later than September 30, 2000.
(e)
The Borrower shall through competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to 
the Association select an entity acceptable to the Association, including an NGO, to 
serve as the Secretariat of the FBO Development Fund. The said Secretariat shall be 
responsible for: (i) the processing of funding proposals in accordance with the 
procedures and criteria set out in the Project Implementation Manual; (ii) carrying 
out decisions of the Board of Trustees; and (iii) monitoring the performance of 
Beneficiaries in receipt of Grants.
5.
The Borrower shall: (i) carry out a study, under the auspices of the entity or 
NGO selected pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 above, into the characteristics 
and performance of FBOs; and (ii) prepare a plan of action, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the further development of FBOs.
6.
The Borrower shall no later than March 31, 2001 designate a group of commodity 
specialists in MOFA, acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for the 
development of the whole spectrum of activities in food and fiber production and 
marketing, including input supply, farm production, on-farm and off-farm storage, 
processing, marketing and exports.
7.
The Borrower shall no later than October 31, 2000, through MOFA, prepare a work 
program and budget satisfactory to the Association for 2001, 2002 and 2003 for the 
five MOFA agricultural stations at Kpeve (Volta Region), Asuansi (Central Region), 
Mampong (Ashanti Region), Wenchi (Brong-Ahafo Region), and Babile (Upper West Region) 
by October 31, 2000. The said program shall be reviewed by the consultants engaged to 
assist in the restructuring of MOFA.
Page  22
8.
The Borrower shall, no later than March 31, 2001, transfer the pilot milk 
collection, processing and marketing activities carried out at its Amrahia farm to 
private sector farming operators, under arrangements and on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including conditions requiring the farm to be: (i) 
operated on a financially sound and self supporting basis; and (ii) used only for 
breeding dairy cattle and training farmers and extension personnel.
9.
The Borrower shall, no later than December 31, 2003: (i) provide for the 
formation of livestock breeders’ associations by the end of the first Project Year; 
and (ii) transfer to the said associations under arrangements and terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including the provision of technical support by APD to 
the associations, the operation of APD’s open-nucleus breeding scheme.
10.
The Borrower shall, no later than December 31, 2000, complete studies 
satisfactory to the Association on the socio-economic characterization of livestock 
producers and cryo-preservation of West African Shorthorn cattle.
11.
(a)
The Borrower shall, no later than March 31, 2001, prepare and furnish to 
the Association district extension plans satisfactory to the Association for the 
replication and introduction of tsetse control activities with the active 
participation of the communities to be affected by said plans.
(b)
The Borrower shall, no later than June 30, 2001, take all necessary 
action, including (as the case may require) appropriate revision of the relevant 
regulations, to facilitate private veterinary practice.
(c)
The Borrower shall, no later than December 31, 2000, prepare and furnish 
to the Association, the terms of reference of a plan of action for the privatization 
of veterinary services in one pilot district.
12.
The Borrower shall take all necessary action to expedite the processing of the 
draft legislation relating to its Fisheries bill.
13.
The Borrower shall enter into a memorandum of understanding satisfactory to the 
Association with at least one of the following institutions, namely the Institute of 
Statistical and Social Economic Research (ISSER), the Center of Economic Analysis 
(CEPA) and the relevant University Faculties for the carrying out of: (i) statistical 
analysis for the Research, Statistics, and Information Directorate; and (ii) 
Beneficiary assessment and impact evaluations for PPMED.
14.
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement satisfactory to the Association with 
each Beneficiary carrying out a Subproject. The terms and conditions of each Grant 
Agreement shall inter alia provide that:
(a)
the Beneficiary: (i) carries out the Subproject with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental and 
managerial standards; and (ii) maintains adequate records to reflect, in accordance 
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures relating 
to the Subproject;
(b)
the goods, works and services to be financed from the proceeds of the 
Grant shall: (i) be procured in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and 
economy and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(ii) be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject; and
(c)
the Borrower reserves the right to:
(i)
inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the Subproject, the operations thereof 
and any relevant records and documents;
(ii)
obtain all information as the Borrower or the Association shall 
reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and 
Page  23
financial conditions of the Beneficiary; and
(iii)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of 
the proceeds of the Grant upon the failure by the Beneficiary to 
perform any of its obligations under the Grant.
15.
Environment:
(a)
MOFA shall develop a strategy to incorporate environmental considerations 
into the design and carrying out of it agricultural development programs at all 
levels.
(b)
MOFA shall designate an Environmental Liaison Officer to assure that 
proper consideration is given to environmental issues in MOFA’s operations. The said  
officer shall liaise with the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) on environmental 
aspects of MOFA’s activities.
(c)
MOFA shall:
(i)
develop, in collaboration with EPA, environmental guidelines or 
simple environmental manuals in specific areas such as 
aquaculture, livestock, introduction of exotic species, 
agro-chemical use, integrated pest management, agro-forestry and 
irrigation to guide field officers, especially at the district 
level;
(ii)
emphasize the environmental aspects of agricultural programs and 
activities in the training of agricultural officers and the 
provision of extension messages;
(iii)
develop model sustainable land use systems, based on land use 
capability, for different ecological zones;
(iv)
equip PPRSD and EPA's Chemicals Control and Management Center with 
the resources and facilities to train extension officers on the 
safe use of agro-chemicals and on adherence to the Borrower’s 
Pesticide Control and Management Act of 1996; and
(v)
prepare an environmental assessment report, satisfactory to the 
Association for the community-based tsetse control and the 
aquaculture development programs.
16.
The Borrower shall through the Research, Statistics and Information Directorate 
of MOFA and in collaboration with the Meteorological Service set up and thereafter 
maintain an early warning information system to make advance information available 
about anticipated effects of droughts and other natural hazards such as floods, fire, 
and outbreaks of plant and animal diseases (based on the GIS data base developed for 
the Borrower based on land capability under the Bank assisted Environmental Resource 
Management Project Credit No. 2426-GH).
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
Page  24
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means with respect to: (i) the FOMA 
Special Account, an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the MOFA Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 
Schedule; and (ii) the CSIR Special Account, an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the CSIR Special Account pursuant 
to said paragraph 3(a), provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited (A) in the case of the MOFA Special 
Account to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR5,000,000, and (B) in the 
case of the CSIR Special Account to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to said 
Section 5.02 shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
Page  25
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
The performance indicators to be met by the end of the last Project Year shall include 
the following:
A.
Sector Indicators:
Annual GDP growth:
(a)
Annual increase in household income.
(b)
Improvement in core welfare indicators.
B.
End-of-Program Indicators:
1.
Approval of each annual work plan and budget linked to the Medium-Term 
Expenditure Framework and the achievements of outputs and targets of the previous 
Project Year.
2.
Financing of subsequent phases of the Program triggered by the achievement of 
milestones and gradual assumption by the Borrower of full responsibility for recurrent 
Page  26
costs by the end of the third Project Year.
C.
Outcome/Impact Indicators
1.
(a)
Increased rural household incomes.
(b)
Increased value of agricultural production.
(c)
Reduced cost of production.
(d)
Improve irrigation water use efficiency.
(e)
Reduced rate of land and forest degradation.
2.
Agricultural Research
(a)
The competitive agricultural research grant scheme is operating 
effectively and 75% of ongoing Subprojects have satisfactory rating.
(b)
Farmers’ representatives and other research clientele are participating 
in priority setting of adaptive research.
(c)
At least 60 priority research Subprojects have been completed with 75% 
satisfactory rating from a scientific and clientele point of view.
(d)
Private sector and other stakeholders are cofinancing at least 15% of 
adaptive research on commercial crops and livestock.
(e)
Strategic action plan for rationalizing the main research institutes of 
the NARS prepared.
(f)
Number of new varieties released and number of new cultural or husbandry 
practices passed on to extension.
3.
Agricultural Extension
(a)
The Agricultural Extension Development Fund has been established and is 
operating effectively and 75% of ongoing contracts have received satisfactory rating.
(b)
Agricultural services have effectively been decentralized to the regions 
and districts and district assemblies and farmers’ representatives anre participating 
in extension program design and management.
(c)
20,000 farmers are participating in on-farm adaaptive trials.
(d)
300,000 farmers reached, of which number at least 20% are female.
(e)
120,000 farmers are adopting new technologies.
(f)
The numbers of female extension agents have increased
(g)
Production of improved planting materials increased by 40%.
(h)
Post-harvest losses reduced by 10%.
(i)
IPM adopted and pesticide use reduced in relevant crops.
(j)
Overall increase in farm productivity of 29% achieved.
4.
(a)
110 district annual agricultural services and development plans produced 
and carried out.
(b)
Restructuring of MOFA carried out by December 31, 2002.
(c)
Veterinary legislation revised and enacted.
(d)
Privatization of animal health services expanded and total privatization 
piloted in at least one district.
(e)
Revised Fisheries Bill enacted.
Page  27
(f)
Contracts entered into by private sector and civil society to co-produce 
statistical analysis and Program impact evaluation.
(g)
Reliable agricultural statistical data collected, analyzed and 
disseminated every year.
(h)
Revised Cooperative Bill and NGO Bill presented to Parliament.
(i)
Board of Trustees for managing the FBO Development Fund appointed.
(j)
An entity or NGO appointed by competitive bidding procedures to serves as 
secretariat of the Board of Trustees of the FBO Development Fund.
(k)
Subprojects undertaken by the FBOs show a 75% satisfactory rating.
(l)
GCC and other apex FBO movements strengthened.
(m)
Auditing services of cooperatives societies undertaken by GCC in at least 
two pilot regions and plans to expand said services into the remaining regions 
completed by June 30, 2002.
5.
(a)
Agricultural education policy reviewed by December 31, 2001.
(b)
Curricula of agricultural colleges and farm institutes revised and 
improved to cater to the needs of the private sector.
(c)
Infrastructure of agricultural colleges and farm institutes 
rehabilitated.
(d)
Female intake into agricultural colleges increased by 30%.
(e)
8 regions prepared for Program activities by June 30, 2002.
