mr \TD E eoRESTRICTED
CA                               FILE   IC )II             Report No. PU-18a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE
ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION PROJECT,
DJAKARTA
OF THE
PERUSAHAAN LISTRIK NEGARA
INDONESIA
October 8, 1969
Public Utilities Projects Department



2t iENCvY 7QUIVLMTTS
Free MArket 2ate, December 31, 156-
TT01 . v ,
UJQ.00               -       l1i Rp.
100,I 2.uahs          TTS~C
X oo >1aples   =   v$c~~1 .2 -5
1 Million ?Rupiahs  =   US$2,500
Basic Zxchange Aate, December 31, 1968
US$1.00             =   326 -2p.
100 IRupiahs            USo.31
1 Million ?..upiahs  =        S3,0C67
MASAURES A'ID EQUIAT:'T7S
kw                  =   kilowatt
- = l1egaTaatt (1,090 kw)
kwh                      k kilowatt hour
kv                  -   kilovolt
'JA                 -   volt ampere
!ThJ A                   kilovolt ampere (1,000 VIA)
114VTA              =   megavolt ampere (,0o,0 A:17A)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
PLN - Per':saha.n Listrik INTegara
iip   - Rupiah
PLN's fiscal year ends on December 31st.



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION PROJECT, DJAKARTA
OF THE PERUSAHAAN LISTRIK NEGARA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ...............................                       i - ii
1.       INTRODUCTION             ..........................................               1
2.       THE POWER SECTOR AND THE BENEFTIIARY  .....                   .............       3
Economic Background  .......             ........................            3
Organization of the Sector  .....               ....................         3
PLN's Internal Organization  ..................               .              5
Facilities of PLN  ....           ........................  ..               6
Deficiencies  in System Operating Conditions                   ........      T
Deficiencies  in Financial Operations                 ............           8
Available Financial Statements  .....................                         8
Valuation of Assets    ............................ .                        9
Tariffs ............................................                        10
3.       IMPROVEMENT OF THE SECTOR  ......               .......................         11
Use of Management Consultants  .................... .               .       11
4.       THE PROJECT ...........................................                         13
Expansion Program  .......            ...........................           13
Description of IDA Project  ......              ...................         13
Procurement  and Disbursements  ......................                      14
Engineering,  Installation and Scheduling  .........               ..       15
5.       JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT  ..........................                         16
Incremental Rate of Return  ......               ...................        17
6.       FINANCIAL PLAN           .................... ....................               18
7.       AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS  ........ ........                       19
This report has been prepared by Messrs. D. King and M. J. Reis.






LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   Organization Chart of the Publia Power Sector
2.   Public Power Generating Capacity
3.   Public Electric Power - Five-Year Development Plan, 1969-73
4.   Terms of Reference, Management Consultants
5.  Project Cost Estimate
6.   Actual and Forecast Sales 1965-73
7.   Rate of Return on the Project
8.   Summary PLN Estimated Earnings 1967-68
9.   Tariffs
Diagram
12 kv, 30 kv, 70 kv and 160 kv Networks in Java
Location of Main Generation Facilities with Installed Capacity of
5000 kw and above.






SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the reinforcement and ex-
pansion of the electricity distribution system in the city of Djakarta,
Indonesia, and for the provision of extensive management consulting serv-
ices to improve the organization and efficiency of the power sector. An
IDA credit of US$15 million equivaLent covering the foreign exchange cost
of the project, with the possibility that the credit would finance a small
amount of domestically manufactured equipment, is proposed. The credit
would represent 72% of the total cost of theeproject.  The Government
would transfer the proceeds of the credit to Pernsehaan Listrik Neaara
(PLN), the Government owned electricity utility, which is to carry out the
project. The Government would provide the local currency funds. This
would be the Bank Group's first operation in the power sector in Indonesia.
ii.       In common with other sectors, upkeep of electric power facilities
and their development have lagged during the long period of political and
economic difficulties in Indonesia and in general power supply is now in-
adequate or worse. Improvement and expansion of electric power services
therefore rank high among the priorities for economic action in Indonesia
in the next few years and the urgent need for a number of investments in
the power sector has been established. In this respect the Government,
as a part of its first Five-Year Plan submitted to Parliament in 1969, has
prepared a plan of expansion of publicly owned electricity facilities for
the period 1969-T3. An investment of about US$260 million equivalent, of
which 72% is foreign exchange, is involved, its implementation depending
primarily on the degree of multilateral and bilateral assistance provided
to the sector. This program would be aimed at increasing generation,
transmission and distribution capacity in the country and includes the
proposed Association credit.
iii.      A very difficult electric power situation exists in Djakarta as
the result of inadequate distribution facilities. Until they are expanded
the growth of electricity use in the city will be severely limited and
commercial and industrial rehabilitdtion and growth will be hampered.
iv.       The organization and operations of the power sector are very
weak. Management, operations, engineering/planning, financial operations
and organization of PLN are all in need of extensive rehabilitation and
improvement. For this purpose, management consulting services, estimated
to cost US$1.4 million equivalent, have been included in the proposed
credit. An additional Us$600,000 equivalent is also included for engi-
neering services for the proposed distribution system expansion. It would
be desirable, but not essential for all consulting services to be provided
by a single firm.
v.        Given the objective of achieving the effective autonomy of PLN,
and its efficient operation, a number of conditions would be attached to
the proposed credit. Achievement of these goals would depend, of course,
not only on the Government's intentions, but on the rehabilitation and im-
provement of PLN's organization and operations to the extent necessary to
enable it to function effectively. The process will take some time in
view of the condition of PLN. The proposed arrangements and conditions



- ii -
reflect the Association's approach: this envisages a first credit to get
started the rehabilitation of PLN followed, assuming satisfactory progress
is achieved, by further credits/lending with more conventional conditions.
vi.       There would be covenants providing for the possible amendment
and/or consolidation of the laws under which PLN operates, and the re-
organization and restructuring of PLN, as agreed by the Government and the
Association. Additionally, the Government would undertake to implement
other recommendations of the consultants found to be appropriate. In any
event the Government would undertake to vest PLN with full and exclusive
responsibility for the public power sector by April 1, 1971.
vii.      There would also be covenants covering a valuation of assets,
with the objective of laying the groundwork for rational future financial
operations; and the implementation of an appropriate tariff structure and
tariff levels following the valuation of assets. The immediate transfer
to PLN of certain responsibilities for procurement and construction would
be a condition of effectiveness of the credit, to enable PLN to efficiently
proceed with the project.
viii.     The proposed credit would finance the purchase of equipment and
consulting services. Contingencies a-,e not included since the project,
which would provide facilities for about two years of the Five-Year Plan,
is part of a continuing program. Cost data are based on the planned pro-
gram of PLN modified on the basis of up-to-date unit costs provided by the
Association. Both the scope of the project and certain details of it are
subject to review by the consultants. Contracts would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding with some possibility that pro-
spective Indonesian manufacturers of electric equipment would compete for
the orders with a preference of 15%.
ix.       The incremental rate of return on the project is estimated to be
at least 20%, which is satisfactory.
x.        The project would provide a suitable basis for an Association
credit of US$15 million to the Government of Indonesia. The Government
would transfer the proceeds of the credit to PLN in the form of equity,
subject to Association approval of any conditions attached thereto.



1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Bank's resident mission in Indonesia recommended in February
1969 that an IDA credit should be considered for the expansion of the
electricity distribution system in Djakarta. The Government of Indonesia
followed with an official request in the sae, month. The resident mission
advised that the weakness of the distribution system was impeding the resto-
ration and development of industry in the city and region, and that the
electric power sector operations were in urgent need of reorganization.
1.02      As a result of the difficult pol"tAcal -d econnmir eon dtione
experienced in Indonesia in recent years the upkeep and development of
electric power facilities were neglected. Moreover, the operations of the
public power sector became disorganized and inefficient. The improvement
and expansion of electric power facilities, and the reorganization and re-
habilitation of the operations of the sector, therefore rank high among
the priorities in Indonesia in the next fsw years.
1.03      A number of electric power projects are under construction as-
sisted by bilateral or other forms of financing. The Indonesian authori-
ties, partly with the assistance of Iank staff, have established the urgent
need for a number of additional investments in the power sector and seek
financing for them, largely from international lending agencies. The Gov-
ernment's five year plan for the extension of publicly owned electricity
facilities for the period 1969-73 (para. 4.01), gives the plans in this
connection. The proposed credit is part of the program.
l.o4      This appraisal report covers a proposed IDA credit of US$15 mil-
lion equivalent to the Government of Indonesia for relending to Perusahaan
Listrik Negara (PLN), the state owned electricity corporation, responsible
for the public supply of electricity throughout Indonesia, which would
carry out the project. 1/ The credit would finance the foreign exchange
cost of the project, with the possibility that a small amount of domesti-
cally manufactured equipment would be financed by it as well. The project
would consist of the reinforcement and expansion of the distribution system
in Djakarta and environs, for two years of a five-year program aimed at
providing facilities to supply the large repressed demand and load growth
under satisfactory service conditions. The Government of Indonesia looks,
as well, to the Association for assistance in rehabilitating the organi-
zation and operations of the sector and to that end the credit would also
include the cost of extensive management consulting services for this pur-
pose. This would be the Bank Group's first loan or credit for power to
Indonesia.
1.05      The problems of the power sector and PLN and their solution must
to a considerable extent be considered in the context of problems common to
Indonesian government enterprises. The following extract from the Bank's
most recent Economic Report on Indonesia, provides a useful background in
this respect.
1/   Chapter II describes the roles of the other Government offices involved
in the power sector.



- 2 -
"As the 1969/70 year began, the Government was giving systematic
consideration to a whole series of policy, institutional and pro-
cedural problems which it faces in attempting the long-delayed
oeginnings of economic development. Many of these problems repre-
sent the heritage of the earlier period of economic deterioration
and retrogression and the accompanying decay and destruction of
governmental and private organizations and economic activity. Among
the problems to which consideration is being given, and on which
action is to be taken gradually as study and circumstances permit,
are: the combination of overstaffed government departments and
enterprises with both inadequate provisions for maintenance and
other services and salary levels so low as to ensure inefficiency
and promote corruption; a tax structure and tax rates inappropriate
to development and increased revenue collection; a customs tariff
similarly in need of revision; the necessity for stimulating and
encouraging expansion of both current production and productive in-
vestment by both private and government enterprises; the need, in
the interest of efficiency, for reorganization of many government
enterprises and for changes in structure and tariffs of public ser-
vice enterprises; the need for ultimate dismantlement of the system
of direct distribution of food and other commodities to Government
employees and the armed forces, etc." 1/
1.06      Because of the disorganized state of the power sector and PLN it
was not possible to appraise the project along customnry lines. For example,
this report does not include the usual financial statements, because PLN
accounting records are essentially meaningless. Inasmuch as the predominant
problem is that of organization and management, this topic is discussed in
considerable detail.
1.07      This report was prepared by Messrs. D. King and M. J. Reis.  The
resident mission in Indonesia provided valuable information concerning cur-
rent power sector activity, and valuable assistance in clarifying the issues
with the Indonesian Authorities. The reports prepared by the Bank's eco-
nomic missions to Indonesia in 1967 and 1968 were used extensively as a
source of information.
1/   Extract from Report No. EAP-5a - Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Indonesia - May 16, 1569.



2. THE POWER SECTOR AND THE I,ENEFICIARY
Economic Background
2.01      Indonesia consists of some 3,000 islands extending about 5,000 km
east-west and 2,000 km north-south. The total land area of approximately 1.9
million km2 is about four times that of France. The population, which is
growing 2.4% annually, was estimated at 115 million pe^ple in 1Q68.  seventy
five percent live on the Island of Java on which Djakarta, the capital city
with a population of 4,000,000, is located. Java has one of the highest popu-
lation densities in the world, about 1,500 people per square mile. Sumatra
has the next largest population concentration and the remainder are scattered
among the many other islands of the archipelago.
2.02      The economy of Indonesia, arni of Java, is essentially agrarian.
Manufacturing and trade accounted for only 28% of net domestic product in
1967. Oil production is predominantly in Sumatra. With few exceptions, indus-
try in the country is of the medium and light type, located mainly in the large
cities of Java. Purchasing power is low, with an estimated per capita income
in 1968 of US$83.
2.03      Rehabilitation and development of new industry is necessary to offset
its deterioration in recent years through neglect and obsolescence. This ap-
plies to the power sector equally welt. A measure of the situation is that the
consumption of electricity in Java ol about 15 kwh per capita is one of the
lowest in the world.
2.04      One of the important factors in the economy in recent years has been
the condition of severe inflation starting about 1960. This has had a consid-
erable bearing on the lack of development of the electric power sector in this
period, as well as influencing other elements of the economy. This condition
has improved and during the past year prices have been relatively stable.
Organization of the Sector
2.05      In the period 1953-57 the three Dutch owned electric utility compan-
ies supplying power in Indonesia were nationalized by the Indonesian Government.
The transfer was not amicable, records were destroyed and there was no transi-
tion period during which the new Indonesian management could have been trained
by its predecessors. During subsequent years the decline in the efficiency of
the utilities was marked by inadequate expansion and poor operating conditions.
In 1961 the three nationalized utilities were consolidated into a single entity,
the predecessor of PLN, responsible for all public electric utility facilities
in the country. In 1965, when PLN was organized, it was relieved of the res-
ponsibility for major power station construction, which is at present carried
out under other arrangements, under the authority of the Minister of Public
Works and Power. Moreover, given the uncertainties as to fund availabilities,
planning, which is carried out both by offices within the Ministry and PLN
itself, has at best been haphazard. The sector organization is shown in
Annex 1.



-4-
2.06      PLh- is prospectively a very large utility.  Present public and cap-
tive power generating capacity for all Indonesia (Annex 2) is only some 7 watts
per capita, which compares, for example, with about 30 for India. Thus, use
of electric power in Indonesia is very limited and electricity usage could grow
at a very fast rate, given favorable development conditions. The public sup-
ply's inability to meet overall requirements has given rise to a substantial
captive generating capacity, that is, generation provided by industrial and
commercial enterprises for their own use.
2.07      PLh- is presently incapable of providing adequate electric service,
nor is there any reason to expect that meaningful improvements in its operation
will be made without outside advice and assistance. Among its principal weak-
nesses are the following:
(i)  purchasing and contracting are outside managements' control,
with the result that expenditures may not be responsive to
priority needs. Moreover, the assumption of these functions
by Government has led to a deterioration of the planning
function in PLN;
(ii)  there is surplus staff; staff efficiency, pay, and morale
are low;
(iii) plant is inadequate, as are operating and maintenance
techniques and procedures;
(iv) accounting and other records are inadequate, information
for control over operations is lacking or not available
in a timely fashion; communications are poor;
(v)  tariffs are possibly too low, and operating expenses are
almost certainly too high; collections are poor, contribu-
ting to the financial conditions under which PLN appears
to operate at a loss;
These problems are discussed in the remainder of this Chapter.
2.08      PLN operates under the authorization of a body of laws relating
to government agencies and enterprises in general, and a 1965 Government
decree concerning it specifically. Taken in its entirety, this body of
laws appears to convey autonomous powers to PLN. However, there are some
conflicts in the laws, and moreover, the authority of PLN in certain re-
spects is not established or is ill-defined.
2.09      Thus the Government retains tha responsibility for setting tar-
iffs, on the principle that their level is related to the general social
welfare. The abstract principle of making a profit is recognized in the
1965 decree but it contains no guidelines in this connection, such as, for
example, that of a rate of return on investment.



- 5 -
2.10      Notwithstanding the provisions contained in the laws, PLN does
not in reality function as an autonomous body, but functions instead as a
government agency responsible to the Directorate General of Power, an of-
fice of the Ministry of Public Works and Power. The Directorate General
with a staff of engineers and administrative assistants controls the oper-
ations of PLN, and those of the state-owned gas company and state construc-
tion organizations as indicated in Annex 1. The Directorate General is
for practical purposes the body through which the Government administers
the power sector.  The actual function of PLN is primarily that of implerprt-
ing policies and administering them on a day-to-day basis.
2.11      PLN's management has thus be.-n relegated to a secondary role.
With the growth of the sector, this situation will become increasingly un-
satisfactory and it is very important that the actual arrangements which
now exist between Government, the Directorate General and PLN should be put
on a more sensible basis as soon as is ceornsistent with the capabilities of
the respective organizations and personnel. PLN should, subject to normal
government restraints, become autonomous with respect to setting tariff
levels, procurement, construction, system planning, employment, and fi-
nance, including the raising of funds, for the public power sector. This
would likely involve some modification, and consolidation, of the laws
governing PLN, and the transfer of responsibility for the public power
sector from the Directorate General to PLN.
2.12      Of immediate importance to the execution of the project itself
is the situation whereby the Director General undertakes the negotiation
and execution of contracts for the purchase of foreign equipment, respon-
sibility for major construction and organization of construction jobs. It
would be difficult for PLN to carry out the project effectively without a
change in this situation, and in any case, transfer of this responsibility
to PLN would be an important step in making it autonomous. Assurances have
been received that as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit,
PLN will be made responsible for procurement and construction of all new
projects, including that to be financed by the proposed credit, with the
exception of those now under construction. Assurances have been received,
as well, that the latter will become the responsibility of PLN not later
than April 1, 1971, as discussed in paragraph 3.05. The means of obtaining
autonomy with regard to the other items are discussed in Chapter III.
PLN's Internal Organization
2.13      PLN is administered by a Board of Directors of five, under the
provisions of the 1965 decree; the President and the heads of the four
main departments. The President of the Board is responsible to the Minister
of Public Works and Power. All members of the board are appointed by the
Government.
2.14      The four main departments - personnel, operations, finance and
construction - and the fourteen operating regions, report directly to the
President of the Board (Annex 1). It is recognized by Government and PLN
that the 16,000 employee staff of PLN, built up under former Government
social welfare policies of full employment, is much in excess of actual



- 6 -
needs. PLN is following a policy of reduction of staff by attrition. Over-
staffing of state enterprises is one of the problems the Government is now
considering on a national basis and this may in itself lead to a more reason-
able employment level at PLN. The studies and recommendations of the manage-
ment consultants will be of prime importance in the future rationalization of
this problem.
2.15      Region 12, the object of the expansion program under the proposed
IDA credit, is responsible for the western part of Java, including Djakarta,
which represents about 80% of the region's sales. The largest and most impor-
tant of the 14 regions, it has 3,000 employees, and is characterized by young
and enthusiastic, if somewhat inexperienced, leadership. It operates the
region facilities, and prepares and executes programs of distribution system
expansion when money and equipment are made available.
2.16      Aside from the difficulties arising from the role of the Directorate
General, PLN's management is severely hampered by inadequate communications
over the very widely spread service areas. Inadequate records, statements and
systems with which to work add significantly to the problem. Moreover while
PLN management and supervisory personnel appear responsible and technically
qualified, they are deficient in terms of management practices and modern
techniques.
2.17      Important factors in PLN's operations as a whole are overstaffing,
weak morale, low salaries and the poor working conditions of lower level staff.
As a Government institution PLN is subject to the salary levels which apply to
Government enterprises, which are only a fraction of those paid by private
enterprises.  While the salaries of higher level staff are supplemented by such
amenities as cars and houses they are still very low. Other classes of person-
nel must resort to a second job. Performance at PLN suffers accordingly.
Facilities of PLN
2.18      As of mid-1968 publicly owned installed generating capacity in
Indonesia was 651 MW (Annex 2), including the multipurpose Djatiluhur 100 MW
hydroelectric station which is under the control of another state organization 1/
which feeds into the PLN system. In 1967, approximately 1.61 billion kwh were
generated and 1.16 billion kwh sold by' PLN. In addition to publicly owned
facilities it is estimated that privately owned generating capacity, for the
supply of industrial plant, for which no accurate statistics are available,
amounted to about 200 MW in 1968.
2.19      In Region 12, there were approximately 140,000 consumers in 1968 of
which 130,000 were domestic and the remainder industrial and commercial. The
maximum demand was 86 MW, of which 70 MW was accounted for by Djakarta. Sales
amounted to 321 million kwh, distributed approximately 53% domestic, 30% com-
mercial/industrial and 17% municipal/government. The fact that much of indus-
try provides its own power supply (para. 2.25) is one reason for the compara-
tively low industrial component.
1/   Djatiluhur State Enterprise.



- 7 -
2.20      The transmission system (see map) of Region 12 is connected with
thai of other regions in West Java and functions as an interconnected system
altlhough power transfer is quite limited. Transmission planning aims ulti-
mately at an interconnected system for all of Java, which would be a logical
objective within about ten years. The main power supply for Djakarta is from
the 100 MW Djatiluhur hydroelectric plant and the oil burning 50 MW Priok
thermal station located on the city outskirts, and is delivered over a 70 kv
ring transmission system around the city.
2.21      In Djakarta and environs there are approximately 300 MVA of 70/12
kv transformers supplying the primary distribution system, 135 MVA of 12 kv/
220/127 vc,lt primary distribution transformer capacity, 185 miles of primary
distribution overhead circuit, 420 miles of underground distribution and 3,000
miles of secondary distribution circuit. In Djakarta proper, primary distri-
bution is almost entirely underground and secondary distribution overhead.
Portions of the older primary distribilti.o system operating at 7 kv are gradu-
ally being converted to 12 kv.
Deficiencies in System Operating Conditions
2.22      There are numerous conditions of inadequate maintenance, poor volt-
age and unreliable service throughout PLN service territories. Poor operating
conditions result from overload primarily attributable to inadequate system
expansion in recent years. Maintenance and upkeep are limited by lack of
money and spare parts. Moreover, operating techniques are such that the best
performance possible from existing facilities is not obtained. PLN lacks up-
to-date standards for system operation, maintenance and design without which
it is difficult to achieve efficient utility operation.
2.23      One example of these coniditions is that of electric power losses
which, including station use, have been between 25% and 35% in recent years,
compared with about 15% experienced in normal circumstances. While much of
the very high loss figure is attributable to the overloaded system conditions,
a substantial if unknown portion is due to illegal connections, and failure to
read all meters and bill all accounts.
2.24      In Djakarta the situation is paradoxical in that there is at present
a surplus of generating capacity which cannot be used because of the limited
distribution facilities. In many parts of Djakarta primary and secondary dis-
tribution is overloaded to the extent that under peak load conditions the con-
sumer voltage is sometimes as low as 50% of normal, a condition under which
motors are inoperable. The load growth of Djakarta has been severely limited
by the lack of distribution capacity, particularly in 1968. Because of this,
Region 12 has deliberately kept load growth to a minimum by exacting a large
connection charge from new customers (Annex 9).
2.25      Primarily because of unreliable service conditions and uncertainty
as to when, ultimately, service will become reliable, most new industrial con-
sumers in the Djakarta region in recent years have provided their own diesel-
electric generating facilities. Even some of the larger non-industrial loads,
such as embassies, install diesel sets. It is estimated that about half of



- 8 -
Djakarta's industrial load is now supplied in this manner. The fact that this
is a highly uneconomic means of providing power supply reflects the extreme
nature of the problems faced by consumers in Djakarta.
Deficiencies in Financial Operations
2.26      There are two fundamental defects in PLN's financial operations.
PLN has been operating at a loss and, secondly, the apparatus for controlling
its finances and accounts is in a near-chaotic condition. Probably the most
important reason for both is the political and economic situation of the past
decade, and its attendant inflation. Other factors include the lack of exper-
ienced financial management and staff, inability to effectively use the account-
ing system, inefficient operations, ove!rstaffing and deficiencies in billings
and collections.
2.27      Under the abnormal political/economic conditions, tariff increases
lagged far behind inflation and given long delays in collections, revenue was
entirely disproportionate to operating costs. (see para. 2.38 and Annex 9.)
The Government did not pay its bills and collections from the ordinary consumer
suffered.  Ihere was no alternative but for PLN to operate on a day-to-day
basis, trying to meet out-of-pocket costs and where it could not, turning to
the Government for funds. Government response to the problems of PLN was lim-
ited, given the order of magnitude of its other problems.
2.28      The flow of information concerning revenues and expenses from parts
of the widespread service area was largely disrupted. Revenue and expense ac-
counts were distorted and the balance sheet became meaningless in the absence
of revaluation of assets to correct for the large inflation. As noted, the
Government assumed direct responsibility for major construction and in many
instances the new facilities were not only not incorporated into PLN's assets
but the details of the agreements under which they were obtained were obscure
or seemingly lost. This state of affairs would have been very difficult even
for an experienced and well managed utility. In the case of PLN it was over-
whelming and there was a breakdown of the finance and accounting processes.
2.29      In the past two years PLN has made some recovery but it will require
considerable time, effort and assistance to put financial operations on a nor-
mal basis. Within several years this should be possible by means of the ma-
nagement consulting assistance proposed (para. 4 of Annex 4). The details of
the financial situation which follow should therefore be read in this context,
it being evident that it will not be practicable for the Association to obtain
with this credit some of the specific financial undertakings customarily sought.
This is in line with the Association's strategy which envisages a first credit
under which the process of rehabilitating PLN would be started, and assuming
reasonably satisfactory results, possible additional credits to which more
conventional conditions would be attached.
Available Financial Statements
2.30      PLN does not have up-to-date financial statements.  The latest avail-
able balance sheet as of December 31, 1965, was not completed until early in



- 9 -
1969 and that for December 31, 1968 is not expected to be available during
1969. PLN retained a local auditing firm to help prepare the 1965 financial
statements but not to make an audit. The auditing firm noted various deficien-
cies concerning the 1965 financial statements which were based on such records
as were available. It also pointed out that only two of the regions of PLN had
externally audited reports, that available data were not uniform, which presented
difficulties in the preparation of thi combined statement, and that explanations
in many instances were not available. In any event, the balance sheet as of
December 31, 1965 is virtually meaningless because of the substantial inflaUui
which took place both prior to and su-sequent to that date.
2.31      Although its balance sheets are not significant and in any event far
outdated, PLN has attempted to estimate operating results in 1967 and 1968,
and these are given in Annex 8. Obviously somewhat rudimentary in makeup,
they are the only indication of the recent operating position. They show
that PLl operated at a loss those years, Accounts receivable from the Gov-
ernment and its agencies are long overdue. In this respect assurances have
been received that the Government will pay accounts now outstanding within
one year and, thereafter, accounts shall be paid promptly when due.
2.32      The estimates for 1967 show revenues of Rp. 2.3 billion and operating
expenses of Rp. 3 million before a charge called "capital burden", made in lieu
of depreciation. In these estimates "capital burden" is an arbitrary charge
equal to about 10% of operating costs. The estimates for 1968 show operating
revenues and operating expenses each of about Hp. 5.5 billion before "capital
burden". The increase in revenues and expenses in 1968 reflected the impact
of inflation. During this two year period the rupiah declined some 70% in
value. No provision was made for income taxes since there was either no taxable
income or the amount, if any, was not known. However, if operations were prof-
itable, there would be a heavy tax burden. At present, tax rates start at 20%
and increase to 60% before income reaches a level equivalent to US$25,000.
PLN has had to rely on the Government to make up operating losses. It has de-
ferred payments due the Government for customs duties and fuel taxes.
2.33      Subsequent to 1965 an unsuccessful attempt was made to operate under
a uniform system of accounts created with the assistance of an accountant with
the Indonesian General Accounting Office, but without the assistance of inde-
pendent public accountants. A combination of inertia, opposition to a new
system, lack of capable staff, and inability to train personnel in new methods
prevented success in this endeavor.
2.34      In view of the lack of current financial statements, it is clear
that audit of the present financial position is not possible. Therefore, the
Association's customary requirement of having audited statements available at
the time of granting a credit cannot be imposed.
Valuation of Assets
2.35      Because of inflation and inadequate accounting records an inventory
and valuation of fixed assets, which has not been made, is necessary to prepare



- 10 -
a meaningful balance sheet, to establish a rate base and to determine depreci-
ation. It is necessary to list and value properties and in this connection
ownership of properties must be clarified. Where appropriate, properties oper-
ated but not owned by PLN should be transferred to it. Property constructed
by other Government entities is not reflected on PLN's books, insofar as could
be determined. Related suppliers' credits are obligations of the Government.
These likewise are not reflected on the books of PLN which should undertake to
assume the liability therefor. The process of valuation might take upwards of
two years.
2.36      Legislation is contemplated to provide revaluation procedures which
would be applied to state and private enterprise alike to reflect inflation.
Evaluation of PLN's assets would have to be done with this in mind to enable
future revaluations to be made in accordance with any guidelines established.
Assurances have been received that a valuation of PLN's assets will be com-
pleted within twenty months of the effective date of the credit.
2.37      Customary requirements of the Association as to annual review of
accounts by independent auditors cannot be imposed until a reasonable period
after completion of the valuation of assets, to permit preparation of conven-
tional financial statements. Assurances have been obtained that commencing
with the fiscal year following the date of completion of the valuation,
statements prepared by independent auditors satisfactory to the Association
shall be prepared and submittee to it annually.
Tariffs
2.38      The present situation as to chErges for service is not entirely sat-
isfactory, as indicated in Annex 9. Tariffs are determined by Government
largely on social/political considerations. The average price for power
throughout PLN is US$0.025 (2.5 cents) per kwh which is not low in terms of
worldwide experience. Review of tariff structures and levels is necessary,
and it is proposed that the management consultants carry out this work. Fol-
lowing this, and the determination of the asset value it should be possible
to establish a reasonable rate base and rational tariff schedules. Assur-
ances have been received that tariffs will be set at levels resulting in
revenues sufficient to cover all operating expenses including taxes, debt
service requirements, and a reasonable portion of capital expenditures
whilst maintaining adequate working capital balances, .and that tariffs
determined on this basis, acceptable to the Association, will be put in effect
within thirty-two months of the effective date of the credit; that is, within
one year of the completion of the valuation of the assets (pa.r'a. 2.36).
2.39      A requirement for an immediate change in tariff levels would not be
justified in the absence of adequate financial data, especially in view of the
very poor service supplied. It is quite possible that an increase in electric-
ity rates would result in some reduction in sales in view of the marginal qual-
ity of electricity service.



- 11 -
3. IMPROVEENT OF THE SECTOR
3.01      There is a common understanding between the Indonesian Government
and the Association on the desirability of endowing PLN in fact with the
autonomy granted nominally by the applicable laws, as well as other improve-
ments obviously needed to correct the situation described in the preceding
Chapter. However, considerable time and effort would be required to imple-
ment the agreed principles in terms of organization, systers, facilities,
etc. The Association's strategy has been, therefore, (a) to insist on PLN's
autonomy immediately over those functions for which it is reasonable and
practical to do so; the responsibility for execution of certain contracts
and construction (para. 2.12) are in this category; and (b) for other
functions, to set general criteria insofar as practicable now, and provide
a means of achieving them over a reasonable period of time. In this re-
spect the proposed credit would lay +be groundwork for the long term devel-
opment of PLN, it being realized that subsequent credits which the Asso-
ciation might consider would afford further opportunity to achieve the
objectives.
Use oi Management Consultants
3.02      Strong measures are clearly necessary to improve sector organiza-
tion and functioning so as to upgrade the efficiency and operational and
financial performance of PLN. For this purpose, an amount of US$1.4 mil-
lion equivalent for management consulting assistance is included in the
credit. A consulting team 1/ resident in Indonesia for about two years
would assist with the management and operation of the utility and provide
experts who would institute modern operations and system planning techniques,
prepare standards for operation, maintenance and design and, with regard
to the other problems described in Chapter II, institute appropriate pur-
chasing and inventory policies, establish efficient systems of accounts,
meter reading, billing and collections, improve financial practices, assist
with the evaluation of assets, review the tariff structure and levels, re-
view insurance practices, organize training programs and generally make
recommendations on appropriate matters. Terms of Reference outlining the
duties of the management consultants are contained in Annex 4.
3.03      An important task of the consultants would be to review the ade-
quacy of the laws under which PLN functions and to assess the present or-
ganization of PLN to determine the changes which would be advisable to
enable it to function autonomously and efficiently (paras. 2.08-2.15). The
consultants would have to consider the relationship and the division of
responsibility between PLN and the Directorate General to determine how
best to accomplish this.
1/   The consulting services proposed would not duplicate the work now being
done by Japanese consultants, scheduled for completion in 1969. Their
work is intended to lay the groundwork for a study of long-term expansion
of electric power facilities by making a review of immediate problems,
including short-term expansion.



- 12 -
3.04      It is expected that many of the consultant's suggestions concer-
ning methods, procedures and techniques employed in PLN's operations would
readily be adopted. However, implementation of recommendations concerning
the laws, sector organization and policy would require Government consider-
ation and approval. Assurances have been received that recommendations of
the consultants as the Government and Association shall consider appropriate,
concerning organization, structure and operations of PLN, including any
required consolidation, modification or supplementing of the laws applicable
to PLN, will be implemented within one year of the effective date of the
credit. Assurances have been received, as well, that recommendations of
the consultants not in the above category, nor covered by specific under-
takings of the Government, considered appropriate by the Government and
Association, will be carried out promptly as made.
3.05      It is advisable that a limit should be set on the amount of time
allowed for the transfer of responsibilities and functions to PLN. Assur-
ances have been received in this respect that PLN shall be vested with full
and exclusive responsibility for the public electric power sector, including
planning, procurement, construction, operation, maintenance and ownership
of all facilities therein, not later than April 1, 1971.
3.06      Given the comprehensive and complex nature of the management
consulting task, it is important that an appropriate firm should be se-
lected for this assignment. Assurances have been received that consultants
will be selected with the assistance of, and under conditions acceptable to
the Association, for the purposes described, as given in detail in Annex 4.
Preliminary steps have been taken in this connection.



- 13 -
14. _ THIPROJECT
Ex ansion Program
4.0l      Indonesian authorities recognize the inadequate state of existing
electricity supply and the need to undertake a comprehensive program of devel-
opment. A five-year plan of expansion of public electricity facilities has
been prepared (Annex 3) for 1969-1973, in conjunction with the Government'6
first five-year plan submitted to parliament early in 1969. The scale of the
proposed power expansion program is less than the Indonesian authorities be-
lieve necessary, the dimensions being limited by the prospects for multilat-
eral and bilateral aid and the local currency resources of the Government.
Its implementation, involving an investment of some US$262 million equivalent,
of which 72% would be foreign exchange, is dependent in particular on the pro-
spective external assistance being realized. The program appears appropriate.
About 45% of its cost is allocated to transmission/distribuition. This is
a somewhat greater allocation of resources to transmission/distribution than
is usual, reflecting the fact that these facilities are at present even
more inadequate than is generating plant.
Description of IDA Project
4.02      The proposed IDA credit of $15 million would finance the cost of
equipment and supplies for two years of a five-year program of expansion
of the distribution system in Djakarta and environs aimed at supplying the
repressed demand and load growth und('r normal service conditions, and man-
agement and engineering consulting services. A small amount of the credit
might be used to finance domestic procurement (paras. 4.07, 4.08) but most,
if not all of it, would finance foreign exchange purchases. The total cost
of the project would be US$20.8 million equivalent.
4.03      The proposed credit would finance the purchase of approximately
80,000 kva of distribution transformers, 240 miles of 12 kv primary distribu-
tion underground cable, 15,000 meters and current limiters for unmetered cus-
tomers, and associated secondary distribution circuit, poles and switchgear.
A number of planning policies and design practices require review including
standardization of primary and secondary distribution voltages, use of voltage
regulators and capacitors, and use of pole mounted transformers.  lhe details
of the composition of the equipment given in Annex 5 may therefore be modified
when reviewed by the engineering consultants (para. 4.09).
4.04      The project cost estimate as given in detail in Annex 5 and summar-
ized below was prepared by the technical staff of Region 12, modified on the
basis of discussion with the Association and up-to-date unit costs furnished
by the latter. It should be reasonably accurate. Since the project is part
of a continuing distribution expansion program no contingency item is included
in the cost estimate.



- 14 -
Estimated Cost of Project
Millions of Rupiahs         T'housands of US$
Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total
Distribution Equipment             -     3,810   3,810        -    11,700  11,700
Labor, Materials, Transport    1,000       420   1,420      3,000   1,300   4,300
Customs Duties                     780     -        780     2,400      -     2,400
Engineering Services                60     200      260       200      600     800
Management Consulting               60     460      520       200   1,4      1,6
Total                 1,900   4,890   6,790       5,800  15,000  20,800
4.05      The local currency portion of the project, US$5.8 million equivalent,
includes US$2.4 million equivalent for customs duties on imported equipment
(an average rate of 20%), in accordance with existing regulations. Difficul-
ties in importing goods have been experienced by state owned institutions lack-
ing funds and therefore unable to pay duties promptly. Assurances have been
received that the Government would undertake to have custom duties on im-
ported goods for the project paid expeditiously.
4.o6      The proposed credit would represent 82% of the project's total
cost excluding the cost of customs duties. T'he high percentage is due to
the large amount for management consulting services, the fact that nearly
all equipment must be imported, and the very low cost of the Indonesian
labor component.
Procurement and Disbursements
4.07      Plans are being made to establish Indonesian factories to manufacture
distribution transformers and cables. Although it is highly doubtful if the
factories planned would be ready in time to manufacture equipment for the proj-
ect, the Government has raised the question of preference for domestic manu-
facturers. To anticipate the possibility that Indonesian manufacturers would
be ready to supply equipment, the credit would provide that they vould be
permitted to participate in the bidding for IDA financed goods with a margin
of preference of 15%, in accordance with present Bank policy. For the pur-
pose of bid comparison the 15% or actual duties levied, whichever is lower,
would be added to the CIF landed cost of imported equipment.
4.o8      Procurement of goods financed by the credit would be on the basis of
international competitive bidding except for spare parts and components of
equipment needed for replacement for which such bidding would be impractical.
Disbursements would be made for the full foreign exchange cost of the eqjuip-
ment imported and services provided. For awards to domestic manuifacturers,
disbursements would be made for only 75/b of the amount of the award, to
avoid Association financing of the cost of custom duties tmd other levies
imposed on materials imported for use in manufacturing the finished product.



- 15 -
No disbursement would be made for expenditures made prior to signing of the
proposed credit.
Engineering, Installation and ScheduliE
4.09      Aside from the management consulting services (Annex 4) consulting
engineers would be employed to review distribution planning, rrepare;specifi-
cations, assist with procurement, evaluate bids, and coordinate end supervise
installation. An amount of US$600,000 equivalent is included in the proposed
credit for this purpose. In the past, Region 12 has carried out its own in-
stallation work, admittedly on a smaller scale than the IDA credit would in-
volve, making use of temporary labor and contractors. In view of this and
since there are several finms competent to undertake distribution construction
in Indonesia, it should not be necessary to bring in a foreigln construction
force. Assurances have been received that consulting engineers for the pro-
vision of engineering services would be employed and construction/installation
work carried out under arrangements satisfactory to IDA. It is desirable,
though not strictly essential, that these services should be provided by the
firm chosen to provide management consulting services, as the latter would
be involved to a considerable extent in engineering and operating matters.
4.10      It would take until late 1970 to complete the review of distribution
planning, prepare specifications and call tenders. Purchase of equipment, and
its delivery and installation would therefore extend through 1971/72. The
remainder of the 1969-73 five-year program would be carried out as financing
for it, predominantly from foreign sources, became available. It is quite
possible, in fact, that the five-year program would not be completed in the
period envisaged in view of the time that has already elapsed and uncertainty
concerning the source of financing of equipment other than that financed by
the proposed credit. In this respect, one possibility would be a second cre-
dit from the Association to complete the program, since Association strategy
envisages the possibility of further creditit (paragraphs 2.29, 3.01).



- 16 -
5. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
5.01      Annex 6 tabulates the available information concerning load growth
of PLN and Region 12 for the period 1965-67 and gives forecasts of load for
1969-73 for Region 12 alone. The historical information is not reliable given
the inadequate measurements and collection of data and many inconsistencies are
found. Annex 6 shows that load growth has been stagnant for several years.
However, it has been reported that peak demand in Djakarta, estimated at 70 MW
in 1968 increased 11% both in 1966 and 1967, but fell off to 3% in 1966 in the
face of the large connection charges described in Annex 9. It appears that
while the country as a whole was in a state of malaise from the political/
economic conditions, some effort was made to keep up the economy of Djakarta,
and its electric system was given some priority.
5.02      Studies have been sponsored by the French Association for Technical
Cooperation (ASMIC) and PLN to determine potential future load growth. They
demonstrate that given the size of the population and its rate of growth, the
present state of development and the electricity demand experienced prior to
the political and economic conditions of this decade, the demand could theore-
tically reach very large figures in the 1975-80 period. The studies conclude
that the investment necessary to supply this demand is beyond the means of
Indonesia and the only practical approach is to set more modest consumption
targets, in keeping with prospective financial resources. This approach has
been used in estimating the load growth of Java, Region 12 and Djakarta. It
is reasonable, given the fact that recent load growth experience is of very
little value in assessing future trends.
5.03      The five-year program for the expansion of the power sector (Annex
3), and the five-year program for the expansion of the distribution system in
Region 12, are therefore based on target figures of demand in 1973. It is
estimated that a peak demand in Region 12 and Djakarta of the order of 185 1MW
and 150 MW respectively in 1973 could De met if the five-year program of dis-
tribution expansion is completed, and an associated program of expansion of
generation and transmission facilities for the Region implemented. The main
item in the latter is a 100  NW (two 50 MW units) expansion of the Priok ther-
mal station, which is to be financed under Japanese bilateral assistance
(Annex 3).
5.o4      This would mean an annual energy growth of l95> over the next several
years. This is likely to be realized since, in addition to normal growth,
with the provision of adequate distribution facilities some of the self-
supplied industrial consumers might turn to the PLN for supply, prospective
commercial and domestic consumers who cannot now be supplied would be connec-
ted, and the usage of existiing consumers would increase markedly as the voltage
was raised to normal levels.
5.05      The fact that completion of the Region 12 five-year program in the
time allotted is problematical does not affect the need or timing of the pro-
posed credit. It is unlikely that the distribution system would be improved



- 17 -
to any significant extent prior to the expansion financed by the credit.
Because of this, and in view of the present surplus of generating capacity,
the project facilities would almost certainly become fully loaded as completed.
Incremental Rate of Return
5.06      Annex 7 gives details of the calculation of the incremental rate of
return on the proposed project, which would enable the load growth of at least
two years to be supplied. The net revenue attributable to the project over
its life would yield a return of about 20% on the project's cost on the basis
of present tariff levels. Given the uncertainties as to timely completion of
the project and increased sales materializing as expected, the figure of 20%
can not be regarded as precise, but the order of magnitude appears reasonable.
While there is no basis on which to estimate the opportunity cost of capital
in Indonesia at the present time given recent economic history and present
conditions, it seems unlikely that the opportunity cost of capital, exclusive
of inflation anticipation, would approach the return estimated.
5.07      Moreover, since the rehabilitation and development of industry
would be seriously impeded if the project is not carried out, it is clear
that the economic return on the project would be much greater than the esti-
mated 20% incremental rate of return.



- 18 -
6. FINANCIAL PLAN
6.01      It is clear from what has been said that a financing plan in the
ordinary sense cannot be drawn up. Increasing tariffs now - which averaging
US$0.025 per kwh are not low by world-wide standards - would not be practicable
as explained in para. 2.39. To assure execution of the Association-financed
project, reliance will have to be made upon government contributions not only
to defray the local currency cost of the project, but also to defray PLN's
operating expenses to the extent necessary. Assurances to this effect have
been received.
6.02      Assurances have been received that the Government will turn over
the proceeds of the credit to PLN in the form of equity. The Government is
to determine whether any conditions would be attached, for example, dividend
requirements, the inclusion of such provisions being subject to the agree-
ment of the Association.
6.03      PLN, or the Government, will have to incur additional debt in con-
nection with the five-year expansion plan. However, in view of the current
inability to measure assets, earnings, or cash generation, it is not practical
to consider a debt limitation covenant of the customary type as a condition
of the proposed credit.
6.C4      While it is not possible to forecast PLN's future financial position
some estimate can be made of when it may become profitable if the various meas-
ures proposed in this report are implemented with reasonable promptness. In
the course of the first two years following signing of the credit it should
be possible to substantially reduce operating expenses by reductions in staff
and reductions in losses resulting from improved system operations. Concur-
reritly revenues should be substantially increased by improved methods of bil-
liug and collection of accounts. Moreover, as the project is commissioned in
the period 1971-72 net revenues in Djakarta, representing a substantial portion
of PLN's total revenue, would improve markedly. By 1972 PLN should be oper-
ating at some profit as a result of these improvements.
6.05      Within about three years of the signing of the credit (para. 2.38),
it is expected that tariff levels would be implemented on a level to result in
PLN becoming a viable utility, as measured by normal utility yardsticks. More-
over, the improvements noted in the previous paragraph might be sufficient to
enable this to be done without major increase in tariff levels.



1 -
7.  AGREEMFNTS EP.ChED DURING NVG07iATO
7.01      During negotiations in September 1960 the Association was advised
of the Government's agreement that PLN should becone an  nutonomous electric
power system to provide service on a sound comercial 'basis, and that the
sector and PLN should be reorganized to achieve this gof'.!.
7.02      To this effect, assurances havpe been received that management
consultants will be retained by the Government and r N,( para. 3.o6) to:
(a)  assist with the management and operations of' PLN;
(b)  review the adequacy of the laws umder which PLN functions
and make recommendations concerning their amendment and/or
consolidation consistent with the objectives described in
paragraph 7.01 above;
(e)  review the organization and operation of the sector and PLN
and make recommendations in accordance with the objectives;
(d)  review PLN's tariff structure with regard to its adequacy
vis-a-vis PLNT's costs of providing service, and PLN's
capital requirements;
(e)  assist with the valuation 0!' the Dower facilities operated.
by PLN; and
(f)  review PLN's records, accounting systems and financial
practices; purchasing and inventory practices; employment
practices; insurance practices; system planning and oper-
ating techniques; and other facets of its operations; make
recommendations appropriate thereto, and ascist with the
implementation of new methods and procedurcs, and the
training of personnel.
7.03      With regard to implementation of recommendations of the consul-
tants, assurances were received that:
(a)  in general, those recommendations considered approprIate by
the Government and the Association Ail be implemented
(para. 3.04);
(b)  those concerning organization, structure and operations of
PLN, including recommendations concerning the modification
of the laws applicable to PLN, considered appropriate by
the Government and Association, shall be implemented within
one year of the effective date of the credit (para. 3.0lh);
(c)  in any event, PLN shall be vested. with full and exclusive
responsibility for the public electric power sector not
later than April 1, 1971 (para. 3.05);



- 20 -
(d) within 20 months of the effective date of the credit the
valuation of assets will be completed (para. 2.36); and
(e) within 32 months of the effective date of the credit, a
revised tariff structure acceptable to PLN and the Asso-
ciation will be put in effect (para. 2.38).
7.04      Assurances were received respecting financial aspects that:
(a) the Government will promptly provide all the local currency
necessary to carry out the project, including customs duties
(paras. 6.01, 4.05) and will make available to PLN such
funds as may be necessary to defray operating expenses to
the extent revenues are inadequate (para. 6.01);
(b) the Government will pay accounts now outstanding with PLN
within 12 months of the signing of the credit and there-
after pay accounts promptly when due (para. 2.31); and
(c) PLN's accounts will be certified annually by independent
auditors beginning not later than the fiscal year following
completion of the evaluation of assets (para. 2.37).
7.05      As a condition of effectiveness of the credit the Government has
undertaken to transfer to PLN responsibility for procurement and construc-
tion of all projects, excepting those now under construction (para. 2.12).
7.o6      The Government has undertaken to turn over the proceeds of the
credit to PLN in the form of equity, subject to Association approval of
any conditions which may be attached-thereto (para. 6.02).
October 8, 1969



ANNEX I
INDONESIA: ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE PUBLIC POWER SECTOR
MINISTER
PUBLIC WORKS AND POWER
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND POWER
_._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._               . .   ._._ ._._._._._._. _ ._ ._._._._._.
|OTHER AGENCIES                       DIRECTOR GENERAL                             OTHER AGENCIES
OF MINISTRY                     OF POWER AND ELECTRICITY                            OF MINISTRY
PLANNING                 DEVELOPMENT                    AND ADMINISTRATION              LOGISTICS
MAJOR CONSTRUCTION               PGN                              LEMBEGA                      PNJ
PROJECTS                    (GAS)                            (RESEARCH)         (OPERATION MULTI-PURPOSE
DJATILUHUR HYDRO STATION)
PERUSAHAAN LISTRIK NEGARA
PRESIDENT--
DIRECTOR             DIRECTOR              DIRECTOR              DIRECTOR
ORGANIZATION          OPERATIONS            OF FINANCE           CONSTRUCTION                    REGIONS
AND PERSONNEL         AND LOGISTICS                             AND DEVELOPMENT          NUMBERS / THROUGH  /4
.                 I~~'l
REGION |NO. 12
l    CHIEFl
DEPARTMENT           DEPARTMENT            DEPARTMENT
OF OPERATIONS         OF LOGISTICS        OF ADMINISTRATION
I  I                 I                                        DISTRICTS OF REGION 12
PLANNING AND           STATISTICS           CONTROLLER
CONSTRUCTION
OPERATION AND      FUEL AND TRANSPORT        COMMERCIAL
PURCHASING
DISTRIBUTION          PURCHASING            PERSONNEL
GENERATION AND                               ACCOUNTING
TRANSMISSION
CONSULTING AND
CONTRACTING
May 1969                                                                                                         (R)IBRD-4409






INDOiNESIA
aLEHI-CI'iY DISTRIBUTION PH(JHCT - DJAKARTA
Public Power Generating Capacity
(as of June 30, 1966)
Number of Units & Installed Capacity                          Total
'5umm'^ r                                                                               Installed
PERUSAHANN11 LISTRIK IEGARA (PLN)         of             Hydro              Steam             Diesel           Gas Turbine       Capacity
REGION4S                   Stations    Onits       kw       Units    kw        Units    kw       Units    kw            kw
I  NORTiI SUMATRA (H1edan)                   19           2        120       -       -          75   24,245        1    12,250        36,615
II  SOUTH SUMATRA (Palembang)                  10          2      1,320       -       -          30   21,206        1    12,250        34,776
III  WEST KALIMANTAN (Pontianak)                 8                    -        -       -          17    4,322        -        -          4,322
IV  NORTH, CENTRAL & SOUTH KALIMANTAN         1-                             -       -          26    7,842        -        -          7,842
(Bandjarbaru)
V  NORTH SULAWESI (Manado)                     8          1      4,440       -       -          16    2,932        -        -          7,372
VI  SOUTH SULAWESI (14akasser)                  8          -         -         -      -          18   14,457        -        -         14,457
VII  MALAKU (Ambon)                              6          _         _        _       _          29    4,292        -        -          4,292
Vlli  NUSA TENGGAIiA (Denpasar)                  21          -         -         -      -          56    6,513        -        -          6,513
IX  EAST JAVA (Surabaja)                       25         15     42,722       6    59,482        59   20,567        -        -        122,771
X  CENTRAL JAVA (Semarang)                   2o          14     52,300       -       -          61   21,593        1    12,250        76,143
XI  EAST WEST JAVA (Bandung)                   11         27    152,952        -      -          10    2,614        -        -        185,566
XII  WEST WEST JAVA (Djakarta)                  11          6      33,675       6    62,700        37   36,861        -       -        133,236
XIII  ATJEH (Banda Atjeh)                         9          -         -         -       -          27    3,742        -       -           3,742
XIV  WEST SUMATRA (Padang)                      23         _1      _  70        6     3,012        53   10,325        -       -         13,407
TOTALS                              197         63     307,599      18   125,194       516  181,511        3    36,750      651,054
May7 12, i?5Dq






AINEX 3
INDONESIA
ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION PROJECT, DJAKARTA
Public Electric Power
Five-Year Development Plan, 1969-73
(Thousands of US$ Equivalent)
C O S T                       FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
Local      Foreign
FACILITY                                   Capacity    Period   Component   Component    Total           Amount           Origin
Surveys and Consulting                                 1967-73     2,100        5,500       7,600         5,500    Japanese and other
sources
Construction of Generating Stations
Aiaen Kanan Hydro                          20 MW    1969-72      9,500        7,600     17,100          7,6oC    Japanese
Karang Kates Hydro (Multi-Purpose)         70 W    1969-73       3,600       10,800     l4,400         10,800    Japanese
Garung Hydro                               20 MW    1969-74      1,050        7,500      8,550          7,500    Being sought.
Batang Agamn Hydro                         10 MW    1969-73        850        5,000      5,850          5,000    Project still under
consideration.
Asahan river Hydro                        460 MW    After        1,200       13,500     14,700         13,500    Total cost estimated
1973                                                        at US$70 million
equivalent; project
would only go ahead
in conjunction with
establishment alumi-
num smelter, and
venture is in early
exploration stage.
Priok Thermal Station (Extension)         100 Nd    1969-72    10,900        12,000     22,900         12,000    Japanese
Semarang Thermal Station                   60 mW    1969-73      8,900       10,000     18,900         10,000    Possible US - Neces-
sity for station not
settled.
4edan Thermal Station                      25 MW    1969-73      7,100        7,OCO     14,100          7,00C    Assistance sought.
Makassar Thermal Station                   25 MWi   -1970        1,700          _        1,700            -      Near completion,
Yugoslav credit
financed equinment.
Palembang Thermal Station                  25 MW    -1971        6,000          -        b,000            -      Completion 1971:
Yugoslav credit
financed eouinmeut.
Sub-Totai  -  Generation                                50,800      73,400   124,200         73,400
Transmsission                                         1969-73      6,500       25,000     31,500         25,000    with respect to
(Including for West Java an amount of  5,5CC)   transmission, dis-
tribution and diesel
Distribution                                          1969-73      8,500       76,0oo     i4,500         76,ooc    stations work in lQ6(
(Including for West Java  an amount of 47,500)   is underway with sora
assistance from US,
tRehabilitation of Diesel Power Plants                1969-73      4,300        9,600     13,900          9,600    Czechoslovakic., o.,
France and the Nethez
lands. Us$15,000,00C
rOTAi                                                  72,200      189,500    261,700        189,500    proposed IDA credit
will provide for sore
of future recuire-
ments, but most, of
foreign assistance
required remains to
be obtained or nero-
tiated.
iote: Import duties and sales taxes not included in estimates.
M'Iay 12, 19o9






ANDEX 4
Page 1 of 2 pages
INDONESIA
ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION PROJECT, DJAKARTA
Terms of Reference, Management Consultants
1.        The following are the Terms of Reference under which management
consultants would be employed to assist the development in Indonesia of the
publicly owmed electricity organization, Perusahaan Listrik Negara (PLN).
2.        To some extent delineation of the activities of the management
consultants would await a review of conditions by them during the first rmonths
of their activities; it would be necessary for them to know in greater detail
the problems of PLN before the full extent of the consulting assignment can
be established. The following description of the duties of the management
consultants should therefore be read in this context.
3.        It is envisaged that a resident team composed of three or four
senior consultants who have a background of utility management experience in
organization, engineering, including distribution, and finance would be
located in Indonesia for a period of about two years to advise and assist
PLN in the management of its affairs. The work of the consultants would
involve, as well, dealing with the Ministry of Public Works and Power, whicn
has jurisdiction over PLN.
4.        The consulting team would arrange to have experts in particular
fields from its home organization visit Indonesia for appropriate periods
of time to (a) institute the use of modern operations and system planning
techniques; (b) prepare standards, with the help of the home organization,
for operation, maintenance and distribution design on a system-wide basis;
(c) establish a system planning department; (d) institute appropriate pur-
chasing and inventory policies and procedures to implement them: (e) establish
a modern system of uniform accounts and institute procedures to ensure their
effective use; (f) institute efficient meter reading, billing and collection
procedures; (g) provide training in financial management, including cash flr.v
and financial planning techniques; (h) review the tariffs structures; (i)
review tariff levels; (j) assist with the evaluation of assets of PLN; (k)
review insurance practices; (1) review employment practices; and (m) organizo
training program for staff at the supervisory and operation/maintenance
levels, in cooperation with training programs already established.
5.        With respect to the foregoing it is expected that the consultants'
suggestions concerning methods, procedures and practices involving PLN's
routine operations would be accepted readily, and incorporated in the opera-
tions. With respect to matters and recommendations requiring policy consi-
deration and review, such as tariff structure and employment practices, the
consultants would prepare recommendations for consideration of Government,
the Association and PLN.






Ann ANNlEX 4
Page 2 of 2 pages
6.        The intent of the Government of Indonesia is to give PLN full
responsibility for the public electric power sector, including planning,
procurement, construction, operation, maintenance and ownership of all
facilities therein. The consultants would review and make recommendations
concerning (a) the internal organization of PLN, (b) the rationale of the
sector organization, including the relationship between the Ministry of PLN,
and the functions the Ministry exercises which might be assumed by PLN,
(c) the body of laws under which PLN functions and such amendment, modi-
fication, and/or consolidation as may be considered necessary thereto to
provide PLN with responsibility for the public power sector and autonomy
in the conduct of its affairs.
7.        It is implicit that in advising and assisting the management of
PIN the management consultants would advise it, among other things, on plans
for expansion, and other major matters of this nature.
8.        One of the main thrusts of the management consulting activity
would be to impart "know-how" to PLN staff in discussions and by illustration
and demonstration. Reports would be prepared by the consultants to describe
progress and to advise of the results of specific studies (e.g. tariffs) and
make recommr.endations thereto.
September 29, 1969






ANNEL 5
INDONESIA
ELECTYICITY DISTRIBUTION PROJECT, DJAKARTA
Project Cost Estimate
Millions of Rupiahs          Thousands of US$
1/ Local  Foreign  Total   1/ Local  Foreign  Total
Distribution Transformers        -        340     340         -      1,050   1,050
Cable                            -     1,150   1,150          -      3,520   3,520
Secondary Overhead Circuit       -        980     980         -      3,000   3,000
Switchgear                       -        520     520         -      1,600   1,600
Street Lighting                  -         70      70         -        210      21C
Metering                         -         80      80         -        260      260
Telemetering                     -        120     120         -        360      360
Miscellaneous                    -        550     550         -      1,700   1,7CO
Labor and Materials            1,000      -     1,000       3,000      -      3,000
Transportation                   -        420     420         -      1,300   1,300
Custom Duties                    780      -       780       2,400      -     2,40C
Engineering Services              60      200     260         200      600      800
Management Consulting
Services                        60      460     520         200    1,400   1,600
Total                     1,900   4,890   6,790       5,800   15,000  2C,8CU
1/  The basic exchange rate, 326 Rupiahs to US$1.00, is used here as it is the
dominant rate of exchange in Indonesian economic activity and is applied
to import transactions.
July 22, 1969






INDONESIA
ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Actual and Forecast Sales 1965-73
P LN
PERUSAHAAN LISTRIK NEGARA (PLN)                          iEGION 12
Annual                      Sales       Annual
Production   Sales   Sales   Sales    Sales               Demand   Millions      Sales
Total       Java   Other   Total   Increase               MW       kwh       Increase
(Millions kwh7T
1965  1/             1,513       953      220    1,173         -              78.0       317           -
1966  1/             1,561       919      211    1,130   (-) 3.5              78.3      301       (-) 5.0
1967  1/             1,609       939      219    1,158        2.5             83.1       309           3.0
1968 (Estimated)                                                              86.o       321          4.0
1969 (Forecast)                                    2/                         92.0      353          10.0
1970                                                                        1C3.0       406          15.0
1971                                                                         124.0      487          20.0
1972                                                                         151.0      607          25.0
1973                                                                         185.0      760          25.0
1/ Historical data must be considered as indicative only as records are not complete and
there are numerous inconsistencies.
2/ There is no meaningful forecast for the entire PLN system, although there are some estimates
of growth of the more important regiors.
M:ay 26,  i9






Page 1 of 3 Tnapes
INDONISIA
ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION PROJECT, DJAKARTA
Rate of Return on the Project
1.        The rate of return of the Djakarta distribution project is the
discount rate at which the present worth of the cost of the project equals
the present worth of the net revenue derived from it over its 25-year life.
2.        The following information and assumptions were used in calculating
the rate of return:
(a) The cost of the project has been assumed to be the actual cost
of the facilities to be provided under the proposed IDA credit,
including the local currency component financing to be provided
by the Indonesian Government.  Excluded from this cost are customs
duties which would likely be levied by the Indonesian Government;
their amount would constitute an internal transfer between the
Government and PLN and would not affect the rate of return of the
project from the overall standpoint of the economy.
(b) Normally, in this calculation, the cost of the project would
include an appropriate portion of the cost of generation and
transmission facilities which would be employed to supply and
transmit the power to be utilized during the life of the project.
This has not been done in this case since there is a surplus of
generating capacity in the Djakarta area which cannot be utilized
by existing distribution facilities. The only capital expendi-
ture involved is that on behalf of the distribution facilities.
(c)  Annual net revenue equal to annual gross revenue less operating
costs. Annual gross revenue is equal to the annual kwh sales
attributed to the project multiplied by the applicable tariff.
For the purpose of calculating the rate of return, operating
costs exclude any income tax which the Government might levy
on PLN profits in the future. That is, net revenue is the revenue
before income taxes are applied since they are a direct benefit
to the economy and, again, constitute an internal transfer.
(d) It is assumed that the average revenue per kwh on additional power
sales attributable to the project would be US2.5 equivalent,
about the current tariff level. This is reasonable in that it is
unlikely that the average tariff would be lower than this in the
foreseeable future, assuming appropriate corrections to tariffs
to compensate for any further inflation which may occur.
(e) Gross operating expenses include the incremental costs of opera-
tion applicable to the project as well as those of the operating
facilities from which the requisite power production would be
obtained. No additional labor cost would be entailed as i.ecion
No. 12 of PLN is already overstaffed. Additional operating costs
involved comprise the cost of materials for maintenance and the
cost of fuel oil which would be burned in the 1riok thermal station
from which the additional production would be obtained.






ANNEL 7
Page 2-o, , pages
3.        The rate of return is estimated at 201.  The assumptions made are
conservative and the figure of 20' can therefore be assumed conservative as
well.
4.         There is no basis on which to estimate the opportunity cost of
capital in Indonesia at the present tirm given the recent economic history
and its present state of flux.  However, since the estimated 204 return is
in effect independent of inflationary forces, tariffs being assumed main-
tained at at least their present level in terms of purchasing power, it is
unlikely that the cost of capital would approach the estimated return.






INDONESIA
ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
iiate of Return on Project
(Millions US$)
Capital           Annual          Annual          Annual Net
Expenditure         Revenue        Expenses           Revenue
1971                         4.4               0.5              0.1               0.4
1972                         8.4               2.5              0.4               2.1
1973                         3.6               3.5              o.6               2.9
1974                          -                3.5              o.6               2.9
1975                                           3.5              c.6               2.9
II                                            t1                tI it
if                                             ,,               if                it
1997                          -                3.5              o.6               2.9
Present W6orth 1970         11.58                                                11.75
Discount Rate 20.0%                                                                                          go 
20
Nay 26, 1969
(D






AmEX 8
INDONESIA
ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION PROJECT, DJAKARTA
Summary by PLN of Estimated Earnings 1967 and 1968
(In thousands of Rupiahs) 1/
Operating Cost
1967            1968
Fuel and lubricating oil (inclu-
ding transportation charges)                773,455        2,222,845
Labor cost                                    589,172       1,519,658
Repair and maintenance                     1,30C5,980         751,030
Miscellaneous                                 298,302       1,040,608
2,966,909       5,534,141
CaDital burden                               291,736          553,414
TOTAL OPERATING COST                3,258,645        6,087,555
Revenues
Sales                                       2,241,833       4,944,189
Other revenues                                 90,613         623,660
TOTAL REVENUES                      2,332,446        5P567,849
Balance
Operating costs minus Revenues                926,199         519,706
NOTE:
1.  The 1968 financial account is based on the realization figures of the
first half year and the estimates for the second half year.
2.  The current kwh sold in 1968 are estimated at 1,246,50h,000 kwh.
3.  The deficit of Rp. 519,706,000.- is partly covered though deferred
import duties, the amount of which is estimated at 1Rp.200,C0,OOO. .
4. The 1967 account is based on the realization figures of the first
half year and the estimates for the second half year.
1/ The value of the Rupiah declined from about 90 to US$1.00 at the end
of 1966 to 326 to US$1.00 at the end of 1968.
July, 22, 1969






INDONESIA
ELECTRICITY DIST.CBUTION PROJECT, DJAKARTA
Tariffs
1.        Tariff levels are determined by Government after discussion;s w,fith
PLN, the result being a compromise between social-political considerat.ons
and PLN's needs. Tariffs 1/ are comprised of basic schedules which are uni-
form throughout Indonesia and charges for transportation of fuel which vary
with regions from about 1/lOths of a cent to as high as 1Y- cents per kwh.
For the country as a whole the basic tariff averages about 2-a~ cents ner
kwh, and the transportation for fuel charge averages about 3/lCths of a
cent per kwh.
2.        Tariffs were changed six times between 1963 and 1968, reflecting
the extreme inflation in Indonesia. The most recent increases, those of
May 1, 1968 in basic tariffs, varied considerably for different classes of
service in an attempt to improve the rate structure.
3.        The basic tariff structure favors the small consumer who pays less
per kwh than the other customers.  In Region 12 the average price paid by the
domestic consumer, as the level of consumption per customer rises, increases
from about 1 cent to 3 cents per kwh, reflecting the social policy of the
Government. Industrial tariffs (including a demand charge) average about
2-4 cents per kwn and commercial tariffs 2 to 5 cents per kwh, the higher
rate being paid by the larger commercial customers.
4.        New customers pay heavy connection charges, a temporary measure
which varies in different regions. For industrial customers such charges
currently in effect in Region 12 are about 11 cents per VA. The charge iE
about 14 cents per VA for small domestic customers and almost 30 cents per
VA for the large domestic and commercial customers. For the si-aall domestic
customer the connection charge exceeds three years of regular bills.
1/  For convenience of interpretation price per kwh is stated in terrmis of
equivalent US cents.
June 26, 1969






INDONESIA
LOCATION OF MAIN GENERATION FACILITIES
WITH INSTALLED CAPACITY OF 5000KW AND ABOVE
\   rHAlL AN/D                                                                                                                 MIORASAAO 
South  Chlna                                                                                     Su/u SeSa                                                     Pa c ific   Ocean
rfondo AtleS                                                                                                                         cZ> w X  gS B BX  P'f ,/ >
BRUNE               D~~~~~~HIIPIE
X    sALAYA    1                                                   RJ                    j.
Medoot  t      l    A         l         A         fg         S    v          , A  .
S bogs0                                                                                                                               Manodo.
5HALMAHERA
Sumatro                                Pot,on.k- I          0   R   N    E  O                                       A4o/ucca  Sea
BANGKA                            (Ks i manto n)
Po.9koIp-.g                                     ~~~CE LEBES
0fub    PongkolpinosgCELEBES
(Sviawesi)                                    CERAM
U5,eit2 2E                                                                                                                                                       WWEST
BILLITON                             
Benk.Ien0                                                    RondjesaosioBURU                                                                AIbon                                             I R I AN
refrokbetung                                                           Makasso,E3 a  5e  vogsocrd3
/ Tkbag B     sVi     1O       5                                                                        a do  Sea
/ r;0et\62 Desarto69   1                 .b.y. BALI LOMBOK                  f /ores   Se a
Se,    s4                                           ennsr ot
JA    A   V  5
& s17  g2100 d                                 SUMBAWA           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~F L O R E 5       0'                         rofvo        Se
AABeedeng ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~UBAA                                               0                                   A,.S Seae
A>/              /~~~~~n oll'c n   O c e a n                            SUMBA                          TIMOR
X DIESEL                                   X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~STEAMd OR GAS TURBINE                      A HYDRO                                                      -      IOJC (jkralOi A110N i
Installed    Installed                                                Installed                                                        System IxEwallslon)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S~t,  Jp.    n
:4W                                                                          BLW   L4W
. ;4edan        16.2                                  3  Tandjung Peak  50.0                                    b. Mendalan          2 3 .0
Maka.s-a         13.                                      GSuambira         12.7                                 7  Djiman            2 0 S                                            IOO  200  300  400  500
*I Ngagel      ~8.0                                     (Djakarta)                                           10. Timo              12.0                                                   KILOMETERS
Kailisari          6.0                                 '1. nd]ung Priok  5 0. 0                                 11. Ketenger           7.0
_7. AntjOl           11.0                                     (D]akarta)                                            12. Plengan            5.2
1, Karet             12.0                                 .,Semarang           12.5                                13. Lamadj-g          19-2                                 O       IgOO    ZOO    300       400      500
,,Keb.joran         2.                                      Palembn           12.                                 i4. Tjik.long         19.2                                 '                  
Medan            12.5  1O        a                       Parakan Kondang 10.0                                                      MILES
1-DjatilUll.r     1070.>
2S. Kratjak           176.
MeAY  1969          26.2.Kak                                                                                                             16PeTBRDa 5088.






INDONESIA
DIAGRAM OF
12kv, 30kv, 70kv AND 150kv NETWORKS IN JAVA
DJAKARTA               JA VA   SEA
-.p                                                                                                            75   too 0        5  0    5
c~~~*                                                                                                                              z-o , J   x   ,,, .. .ai.,,,,  ,,,,,-   ...o.oo 't0IOa
r N            .                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KJLOMEThRS
- -,-; SANDUNG
,'  -  ''   - :--; .'                              'MANA N
Al
*  9  0   - -  -       -                        zzX . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SVRARAJA
WEST JAVA NETWORK
TRANSMISSION
POWER PLANTS          LINES                                CENTRAL JAVA NETRK                                 .
A  Hydro           - ---- 12/15kv                 1,,PROJECT LOCATION
(DXakeJrta Distribution
g  Steam                  30kv                      Systei Expaesion)
*  Diesel                 70kv
EAST JAVA  NETWORK
c  Substations           150kv                                            INDIA N   OCEAN
IBRD 2589
MAY 1969



