RESTRICTED
FILE      CADY                     Report No.  -79
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR AN
ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
October 9, 1969



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DUDECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPIMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA FOR AN ELECTRICITY
DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Indonesia in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to $15 million for an electricity distribution
project in Indonesia.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Government of Indonesia has asked for an IDA Credit to
help finance the improvement and expansion of the electricity distribu-
tion system in Djakarta and its environs and to provide extensive manage-
ment consulting services to improve the organization and efficiency of
the power sector. This would be the first credit in the power sector.
The project was appraised in March/April 1969.
3.        Negotiations for the proposed credit took place from September
10 to September 19, 1969. The Borrower was represented by: Mr. Dandi
Kadarsan, Secretary General, Ministry of Public Works and Electric Power;
Mr. Sufrani Atmakusumah, Director of Planning, Directorate General of
Electric Power; Mr. Bambang Sarah, District Manager, District XII, Peru-
sahaan Listrik Negara (PIN); Mr. Sadu Sundaru, Director, International
Relations, Department of Finance; Mr. Dahlan Ibrahim, First Secretary
(Economic), Embassy of Indonesia; and Mr. Carl Slater, Attorney, Delson
& Gordon, Attorneys, New York.
4.        This would be the fifth credit to Indonesia.  The following
is a sunmary statement of IDA credits to Indonesia as of August 30, 1969:
Credit                                                     $ millions
No.          Year    Borrower      Purpose         Amount     Undisbursed
127          1968    Indonesia     Irrigation
Rehabil-itation   5.0         3.7
135          1968    Indonesia     Technical          2.0         2.0
Assistance
154          1969    Indonesia     Highways          28.0        28.01/
155          1969    Indonesia     Agricultural     16.0         16.02/
Estates            -
Total                     51.0         h9.7
1/ Became effective October 2, 1969.
2/ Not yet effective.



The credit for irrigation rehabilitation was declared effective on y
on March 25, 1969 owing to delays in concluding the consultants cor--
tract and agreeing on personnel. Disbursements from the credit there-
after have been prompt. The technical assistance credit, intended to
be drawn upon when other financing sources were not readily available,
is expected to be used, among other things, for a national fertilizer
study, consulting engineering services for the Djatiluhur irrigation
project, and for studies of the tea plantation sector and two sugar
mili projects.
5.        It is intended that a credit for the expansion of the PUSRI
fertilizer plant in Sumatra and related gas supply facilities will be
presented to the Executive Directors as soon as arrangements for joint
financing with other lenders are firm, probably in the first quarter of
calendar 1970.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
6.        Borrower:                  Republic of Indonesia.
Beneficiary:              Perusahaan Listrik Negara (PT0).
Amount:                   Various currencies equivalent to
$15.0 million.
Purpose:                  The improvement and expansion of
the electricity distribution system
of the City of Djakarta and its en-
virons, and the provision of exten-
sive management consultants' services
to improve the organization and effi-
ciency of the power sector, including
assistance and training in operations,
engineering, finance and management.
Amortization:              In 50 years with a 10-year period
of grace through semi-annual instal-
ments commencing December 15, 1979
and ending June 15, 2019. Each in-
stalnent up to and including payment
due on June 15, 1989 to be 1/2 of 1
percent of such principal amount and
each instalment thereafter to be 1-1/2
percent of such principal.
Service Charge:           3/h of 1 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of the Electricity Distribution
Project, Djakarta of the Perusahaan Listrik Negara Indonesialt (PU-18)
dated October 3, 1969.



- 3 -
8.        The electric power system deteriorated seriously during the
long period of political and economic difficulties before 1966. Both
maintenance and construction of distribution facilities have been
neglected, inhibiting the growth of power consumption for commerce
and industry, especially in Djakarta. Organization and operation
of the power sector continue to be inefficient. The Government's
new Five-Year Plan calls for a total investment of $262 million for
the expansion of public power facilities, but the full amount of
external aid required for the purpose, amounting to $190 million,
will not be forthcoming unless PLN, the State power enterprise, is
reorganized.
9.        PLN, though largely autonomous under its charter, is actually
operated as a government department.  Its management consists of a
President and a five-man Board of Directors, which is responsible to
and administers the policies of the Directorate General of Power, an
office of the Ministry of Public Works and Power. At present, PLN does
not negotiate or enter into contracts for the purchase of goods and
services or organize and execute its own major construction works; it
also does not incur long-term debt directly or set its own tariffs.
PLN's true financial position is obscured for lack of complete, audited
and up-to-date records and weakened by large unpaid debts due from govern-
mental agencies.
10.       The Government desires assistance in financing vital improve-
ments in power facilities and in reorganizing the public power sector
so that PLN functions as an autonomous and effective public utility,
operating on a sound commercial basis. The project has accordingly
been designed to achieve two purposes. Firstly, it would finance the
foreign exchange cost for two years of the five-year program of expan-
sion of the electricity distribution system in and around Djakarta, at
an estimated cost of $13.6 million, providing distribution and power
system equipment, materials and supplies, and engineering services.
Secondly, it would meet the foreign exchange costs over a two-year
period of management consulting services, in an amount of $1.4 million,
to improve the organization and efficiency of the entire power sector
and provide assistance and training in operations, engineering, finance
and management.
11.       Agreement was reached with the Government during negotiations
on the means to be adopted and the period of time within which Government
would realize its objective that PLN functions as an autonomous power
utility, providing services on a sound commercial basis. PLN will be
vested with immediate responsibility for the selection and procurement
of goods and services and for the construction of all new projects, in-
cluding the proposed project; and not later than April 1, 1971 with res-
ponsibility for all on-going projects. PLN's organization and operations
will be reorganized and its charter will be suitably revised within twelve
months of the date the credit becomes effective; its fixed assets will be
revalued to provide a base for rational financial operation, within twenty
months; and PM will be empowered to determine its o<n tariff structure



4 -l
according to criteria which will be stipulated in the revised charter
and will establish a schedule of tariffs within thirty-two months. The
tariffs will be set at levels designed to cover PLN's operating expenses,
interest on and amortization of debt, and to finance a reasonable portion
of capital expenditures. PLN will, in agreement with the Association,
implement the recommendations made by the management consultants in order
that PLN will be vested with full and exclusive responsibility for public
electricity supply.
12.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be made available
by the Government to PLN. It was agreed in principle during negotiations
that as and when they are utilized by PLN, such proceeds would be deemed
permanent contributions to PLN's capital by the Government. Arrangements
satisfactory to the Association and fully effective and binding on the
Government and PLN for passing on the proceeds of the credit will be a
condition of effectiveness, but the details of the arrangements have still
to be worked out. The local currency component of the project cost, esti-
mated at $5.8 million equivalent, will be met by the Government.
13.       Procurement of goods financed by the credit would be on the basis
of international competitive bidding, except for spare parts and components
for project equipment. Local manufacturers would be allowed a preference
of up to 15 percent in such bidding. Disbursements would be made for the
full foreign exchange cost of the imported goods and services provided;
or, for domestic purchases, including local manufactured goods, 75 percent
of the total cost, i.e., the estimated average foreign exchange component
after excluding customs duties and similar levies. Such domestic purchases
are expected to be a very small fraction of the total cost of equipment and
materials.
14.       The improvement of electricity distribution in and around
Djakarta, for which 90 percent of the proceeds of the proposed credit
will be allocated, can be justified independently of the reorganization
of the power sector. The invesment is of high priority since there is
at present surplus generating capacity and no likelihood of improvements
being effected to the distribution system without the proposed credit.
The incremental rate of return in revenue terms is estimated on present
tariff levels at not less than 20 percent. The urgency of improving
power distribution in Djakarta and its environs, to accommodate the
requirements of industry and improve the reliability of the power supply,
suggests a considerably higher economic rate of return.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORIrY
15.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Indonesia and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and Perusahaan Listrik Negara, the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and the text of a Resolution approving
the proposed credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
16.       The draft Development Credit and Project Agreements include
the usual provisions for power projts. Special covenants in Section
2.02 of the Project Agreement provide for recommendations to be made by



consultants in order to reorganize the power sector and PLN.   Provision
for making the credit proceeds available to PLN is found in Section 3.01
of the Development Credit Agreement in general terms, since the precise
details of the arrangements between the Government and PLN are not yet
known.
PART V - THE ECON0ONY
17.       The last economic report on Indonesia (EAP 5a) dated   May 16,
1969, reviewed economic progress in 1968. Further improvements in the
economic situation have occurred this year. Inflation which had been
curbed substantially in the last half of 1968 virtually ceased during
the first quarter of 1969. The Djakarta cost-of-living index, which is
used as the measure of price changes, was stable to July 1969, but higher
rice prices in August caused an increase in the cost-of-living index of
three percent, indicating the continuing sensitivity of the price situa-
tion to the market supply of the main commodities. A sharp increase in
domostic food production in 1968 together with adequate foreign commodity
aid were the principal factors on the supply side in accomplishing this
stability, supported by constraints on demand produced by a balanced
budget and continuing credit restrictions. The overall government
budget was in balance in 1968 and the first quarter of 1969 and a small
surplus may be realized in FY 1969/70. The raising of interest rates
in October 1968 produced a sharp increase in savings deposits and promoted
some repatriation of private capital, and these rates have since been re-
duced somewhat as compensation for inflation became less necessary. The
exchange rate has been stable since October 1968.
18.       Despite necessary fiscal and monetary constraints to achieve
stability, Indonesia enjoyed a reasonable rate of economic growth in
1968 estimated at about 5 percent. While this compared favorably with
the stagnation of 1967, it reflected mainly the much improved weather
conditions in 1968 and an upsurge in oil production which may not be
repeated in subsequent years. Exports, led by petroleum, increased by
8 percent in 1968 and further growth of this order is expected in 1969.
While imports in 1968 were about at the 1967 level, their structure
improved as imports of raw materials and capital goods increased relative
to consumers' goods. Lower imports and higher exports in the first quarter
of 1969 produced a favorable trade balance for the first time since the
start of the stabilization program. With a continuing flow of program aid
and an increasing level of project aid disbursements, no major problems are
expected with regard to the stability of the exchange rate. A new Standby
Agreement to support foreign exchange stabilization, as required, wias con-
cluded with the International Monetary Fund in February 1969.
19.       The success of the stabilization measures has made it possible
and necessary for the Government to direct increased attention to develop-
ment needs, and in particular to implementing development projects. A
Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1969-1974 came into effect on
April 1, 1969, the beginning of the financial year. The main emphasis



- 6 -
is on agriculture and the rehabilitation of infrastructure, priorities
which are reflected in the increased development budget for 1969/70.
Program aid utilization was slow in the first half of 1969, partly be-
cause of the commitment pattern determined by donor countries, but has
since accelerated to satisfactory levels. Project aid disbursements may
reach $70 million in 1969, compared to $21 million in 1968,with the pros-
pect of a further rapid increase. Substantial private investment, both
domestic and foreign, is expected in agricultural production, mining and
manufacturing.
20.       The members of the Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia,
meeting at Scheveningen in April, undertook to provide new aid commit-
ments in 1969 totalling $480 million as compared with $370 million in
the preceding year. Indonesia's request for aid for 1970 and the first
quarter of 1971 will be considered by the IGGI early in December.
21.       The Government still faces a number of obstacles to economic
development. Serious administrative problems remain both in the opera-
tion of existing facilities and the construction of new ones. In govern-
ment departments and agencies, low salary 'Levels, and concomitant over-
staffing hamper efficiency. Government enterprises are badly in need of
reorganization, and in some instances, consolidation. On the revenue side,
substantial progress has been made in increasing real financial resources
above the very low levels prevailing twso or three years ago. The DIF is
providing much needed technical assistance in this field.
22.       In 1969 the commitment of foreign aid and domestic development
expenditures have been lower than expected. A great deal of effort by
the Bank's Resident Mission, other foreign personnel and the Indonesian
Government has gone into pre-investmenu studies and project preparation,
but this kind of work requires time to reach fruition. A Bank economic
mission is now in Indonesia reviewing the economic situation, including
development progress in 1969 and aid requirements for the next 15 months.
23.       Indonesia will continue to need substantial external aid to
supplement its limited domestic development resources. Given the critical
debt service position, this new aid will have to be on the softest possible
terms if the burden of repayment is to be contained within reasonable limits.
Service on pre-1967 debts alone, after the rescheduling exercises between
1967 and 1969, will rise to some $220 million annually in the 1970's unless
further adjustments are made. The proposal by Dr. Hermann Abs for the
settlement of this "Sukarno debt" was submitted to the "Paris Club" (Western
creditor countries and Japan) on July 30. It recommends a cancellation of
all interest outstanding and the repayment of principal amounts totalling
almost $1,700 million in equal annual instalments of $56 million over 30
years. The Paris Club member countries are to meet on October 27 to con-
sider the proposals. Given this debt situation, a per capita income of
less than $100, and the satisfactory economic performance outlined above,
Indonesia is fully eligible for IDA credits.



- 7 -
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WT1H ARTICLES OF AGREEYT
24.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
25.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
October 9, 1969



