CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 165 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Electricity Distribution Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 29, 1969


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 165 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Electricity Distribution Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 29, 1969


﻿Brortapiment Tfrebit Agrrgugtru
AGREEMENT, dated October 29, 1969 between REPUBLIC
OF INDONESLA (hereinafter called the borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of an electricity distribution project,
more particularly described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment;
WHEREAS the Perusahaan Listrik Ne.ara (hereinafter
called PLN), a public authority ("PERUM") of the Bor-
rower, will execute the above-mentioned project;
WHEREAS for such purpose the Borrower will make avail-
able to PLN the proceeds of the credit provided for herein
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
and
WHEREAS the Association has, on the basis of the fore-
going, agreed to make a credit to the Borrower for the
said project upon the terms and conditions set forth herein
and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween the Association and PLN;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force


﻿4
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the following modifications thereof (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of th Association, as so modified, being hereinafter
called the General Conditions) :
(a) Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words "or
either party under the Project Agreement" after the
words "the Development Credit Agreement".
(b) The following sub-paragraph is added to Section
2.01: "13. The term Project Agreement shall have the
meaning set forth in the Development Credit Agreement."
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the re-
spective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even
date herewith between the Association and PLN, as the
same may be amended or supplemented from time to time.
(b) "Governing Laws" means Government Act no. 19,
1960, Government Decree no. 19, 1965, Presidential Decree
no. 17, 1967, Law no. 9, 1969, Government Regulation
no. 11, 1969 and any other legal provisions at any time
governing the organization and operations of PLN, as
any of them may be amended or supplemented from time
to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000).


﻿5
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified
from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed under this A_greement:
(a) such amounts as shall have been paid (or if the As-
sociation shall so agree, as shall be requined to meet
payments to be made) in currencies other than that
of the Borrower, for such goods and services de-
scribed under Categories 1 through 5 of the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in
Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement as are imported
directly for the Project; and
(b) the equivalent of seventy-five per cert (75%) of
such amounts as shall have been expended by the
Borrower for any locally-procured goods under Cate-
gory 1, 2 or 3 of such Schedule 1.
SECTION 2.04. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per


﻿6
cent (3/4 of 17) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTIoN 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and
December 15 commencing December 15, 1979 and ending
June 15, 2019, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on June 15, 1989 to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 17) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (11/2o)
of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall make the proceeds of
the Credit available to PLN under arrangements in form
and substance satisfactory to the Association, such proceeds
to be applied by PLN in accordance with the provisions of
this Development Credit Agreement exclusively to expendi-
tures on the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment.
SECTION 3.02. Except as provided in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, or as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August,
1969, and in accordance with such other procedures sup-
plementary thereto as are set forth in such Schedule 3,
and (ii) contracts for the procurement of such goods and
services shall be subject to the prior approval of the
Association.
I0


﻿7
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used ex-
clusively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTIoN 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out by PLN with due diligence and efficiency,
and PLN to be managed and operated, in conformity with
sound administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practies.
(b) For the purpose, the Borrower shall make available
to PLN, promptly as needed, (i) any funds, facilities,
services aiid other resources required for the carrying out
of the Project, including, if necessary, funds and facilities
for the prompt clearance through customs of goods in-
ported therefor, and (ii), if PLN's resources shall be inade-
quate, the funds required to cover the operating expenses
of PLN.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall exercise its rights
under the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Association, and, except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of modifying such
arrangements.
SECTIOx 4.03. The Borrower (i) shall enable the Asso-
ciation's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods
financed out of the proceds of the Credit, all other plants,
sites, works, property and equipment of PLN and any
relevant records and documents; and (ii) shall furnish or
cause to be furnished to the Association all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Credit and the maintenance of the service thereof,


﻿8
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds, the Project,
and the administration, operations and financial condi-
tion of PLN, and, with respect to the Project, of any other
agency of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of
the Project or any part thereof.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of
the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and
economic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and
the international balance of payments position of the
Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall take all action which
shall be necessary on its part to enable PLN to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement, including the
establishment and maintenance of tariffs and charges as
specified in Sections 2.02(b) and 2.04 thereof, a-id shall not
take any action that would interfere with the performance
of such obligations.


﻿9
(b) Amounts owed to PLN for service's provided by it
to Governmental entities which are due and payable as of
the date of this Agreement shall be paid to PLN within
one year following such date. The Borrower shall take all
action necessary to ensure at all times that amounts owed
to PLN for such services so provided after such date be
promptly paid when due.
SECTION 4.06. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.07. The Development Credit Agreement and
the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes that
shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on or in connection with the
execution, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 4.08. Within a period ending not later than
April 1, 1971 the Borrower shall cause PLN to be vested
with full and exclusive responsibility for the public electric
power sector of the Borrower, including planning, procure-
ment, construction, operation, maintenance and ownership
of all facilities therein.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately, together
with the service charges thereon; and upon any such decla-


﻿10
ration, such principal, together with such charges, shall
become due and payable immediately, anything in this De-
velopment Credit Agreement to the contrary notwith-
standing.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) A default shall occur in the performance by PLN
of any of its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment, and such default shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower and to PLN;
(b) Before the Project Agreement shall have terminated
in accordance with its terms, the Borrower shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of PLN or for the suspension of its operations,
without the prior consent of the Association; and
(c) Before the Project Agreement shall have terminated
in accordance with its terms, the Borrower shall have
suspended, terminated, repealed or substantially
amended any of the Governing Laws without the
prior approval of the Association.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and deivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of PLN have been duly authorized or r%tti-
fled by all necessary administrative and govern-
mental action;


﻿11
(b) the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement have been completed and have become
fully effective and binding on the parties thereto in
accordance with their terms, subject only to the effec-
tiveness of this Development Credit Agreement; and
(c) PLN has been charged with the full and exclusive
responsibility for (i) the selection and procurement
of services and of equipment, materials and supplies
for the Project and for the electric power system
of the Borrower, and (ii) the carrying out of con-
struction projects in such system; with the excep-
tion of such selection and procurement, and construe-
tion, in respect of projects in such system construc-
tion of which was started prior to September 17,
1969.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opin-
ions to be furnished to the Association:
(a) that the delegation of responsibility referred to in
paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 above has been duly
made, and that PLN has all other necessary powers
and authority under the Governing Laws to carry
out its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, PLN and constitutes a valid and binding obliga-
tion of PLN in accordance with its terms; and
(c) that the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01
have been duly authorized or ratified by the parties
thereto, and are in full force and effect.
SECTION 6.03. The date of January 30, 1970 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿12
SECTION 6.04. Unless the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall be sooner terminated, the obligations of the
Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03 and 4.05 of this
Agreement shall terminate on a date twenty-five years after
the date of this Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1973 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Alternative address for cables:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
TTnited States of America


﻿13
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
IN WITNESS WIEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunder duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, TJnited States of Akmerica, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By   /s/ MARDJUNI
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIATIoN
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                             in Dollar Equivalent
1. Distribution transformers, switchgear
and meters                                3,100,000
2. Distribution cable and conductor          6,400,000
3. Miscellaneous power-system equipment,
materials and supplies                     2,500,000
4. Engineering consultants' services           600,000
5. Management consultants' services          1,400,000
6. Unallocated                               1,000,000
Total    15,000,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories 1 to 5 shall decrease, the amount of the
Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for, such
Category will be reallocated by the Association to Cate-
gory 6.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories 1 to 5 shall increase, an amount equal
to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit will be allocated by the Asso-
ciation, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category
from Category 6, subject, however, to the requirements for
contingencies, as determined by the Association, in respect
of the cost of the items in the other Categories.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises:
A. The reinforcement and expansion of the electricity
distribution system of the City of Djakarta and environs,
including
1. The provision of distribution transformers, switch-
gear, cable, street lighting, metering and other
equipment and supplies;
2. Engineering services for the distribution system's
reinforcement and expansion; and
B. The provision of extensive management consultants'
services to improve the organization and efficiency of the
power sector and to provide assistance and training in the
operational, technical, financial and administrative spheres
of activity.
The Project is expected to be completed in the second
half of 1972.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. With respect to equipment, materials and supplies de-
scribed in Categories 1 through 3 of the allocation of the
proceeds referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement,
identical or similar items to be procured shall be grouped
together to the extent practicable for the purposes of in-
viting bids, and such grouping of items shall be subject
to the approval of the Association.
2. In respect of contracts for supply of such goods ex-
pected to cost more than the equivalent of US$50,000:
(a) Invitations to bid, specifications, the text of proposed
advertisements to be published, and all other tender
documents, will be submitted to the Association for
review and approval prior to the issuance of invita-
tions, together with a description of the advertis-
ing procedures to be followed.
(b) After bids have been received and analyzed, the an-
alysis, the recommendations of the consultants,
where applicable, and the proposals for awards, to-
gether with the reasons for such proposals, will be
submitted to the Association for review and approval
prior to any award of contract or issuance of any
letter of intent.
(c) If the proposed final contract is to differ materially
from the terms and conditions contained in the re-
spective documents approved by the Association
under sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above, then the
text of the proposed changes will be submitted to the
Association for its approval prior to the execution
of such contract or issuance of such letter of intent.
(d) One conformed copy of each such contract or letter of
intent will be sent to the Association promptly after


﻿17
its issuance or execution and prior to the date of the
first application for withdrawal of proceeds of the
Credit in respect of any payment thereunder.
3. In respect of any contract for the supply of such goods
expected to cost not more than the equivalent of US$50,000,
a summary of bids or quotations received, the analysis
thereof and the recommendation thereon, together with a
copy of the proc<'s-verbal of the public opening of the bids,
will be submitted to the Association at the time the award
is made. A copy of each such contract will be furnished to
the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of proceeds of the Credit in respect of any
payment thereunder.
4. Pursuant to part 2.8 of the Guidelines referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, the Association agrees
that where any bid is submitted by any manufacturer,
located in the territories of the Borrower, of equipment,
materials or supplies manufactured or processed to a sub-
stantial e-Atent in the territories of the Borrower as de-
termined by the Association (Local Bid), the following
rules shall be observed for the purpose of comparing such
Local Bid, as thus defined, to any bid other than a Local
Bid (Foreign Bid):
(a) All customs duties and similar taxes on the im-
portation of the goods offered shall first be deducted
from the total of each competing Foreign Bid;
(b) The portion of each competing Foreign Bid repre-
senting the c.i.f. landed price of the goods shall then
be increased by 105% thereof or the rate of such
duties, as applicable to non-exempt purchasers in
the territories of the Borrower for the importation
of such goods, whichever is lower;
(c) The resulting figure shall be deemed to be the com-
parison price of the Foreign bid; and


﻿18
(d) For the purpose of determining the lowest evaluated
bid under part 3.9 of Fach Guidelines, such com-
parison price of the Foreign Bid, after converting it
into Rupiahs at the Bonus Export exchange rate
which prevailed 30 days prior to the date on which
bidding was closed, shall then be compared with the
price of the goods offered in the competing Local
Bid.
(e) In cases where an award of a contract based on a
Local Bid is recommended, the analysis of bids shall
state the rate of duties which would be applicable
to a non-exempt purchaser for the importation of
such goods.
5. Pursuant to part 1.1 of the Guidelines, it is agreed that
the procurement of replacement spare parts and com-
poneuts for equipment utilized in or procured for the Proj-
ect may be made without resort to international competi-
tive bidding. In lieu thereof, the following procedure shall
apply: quotations for the supply of such items will be re-
quested from more than one competing supplier, where
possible. Lists of such items to be procured, indicating
the quotations received and the proposed suppliers thereof,
will be sent to the Association periodically for its approval.
A conformed copy of each purchase agreement relating to
such procurement shall be sent to the Association promptly
after its execution and prior to the date of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of proceeds of the Credit in respect
thereof.


