v      --.-'   /  --'       f  '   '
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9805-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 8, 1991
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 1991)
Currency unit - Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00      -  Rp 1,953
Rp 1 million - US$512
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BP                   -  Basic Program
BPKB                 - Regional Learning and Resource Center
BPM                  -  Provincial Training Center
CRC                  -  Community Reading Corner
Diklusemas           - Nionformal Private Training Courses
Diklusepora          - Directorate-General for Nonformal Education, Youth and
Sports
Dikmas               - Directorate of Community Education
Diktentis            - Directorate of Technical Services
DIP                  - Development Budget
GOI                  -  Government of Indonesia
IGP                  -  Income-generating program
IKIP                 -  Teacher Training Institute
IP                   -  Intensive Program
KU                   -  Income-generating Learning Group (Kejar Usaha)
Magang               - Apprentice
Menpan               - Ministry for State Apparatus
H4IS                 - Management Information System
M&E                  - Monitoring and evaluation
MOEC                 - Ministry of Education and Culture
MTP                  - Master Training Plan
NFE                  -  Nonformal education
NGO                  -  Non-governments; otganization
NSS                  -  National S_-port Services
O&M                  -  Operations aad maintenance
Paket                -  Package
Penilik              -  Subdistrict field supervisor
PIU                  -  Project ITmplementation Unit
PCR                  -  Projetct Completion Report
PMU                  -  Project Management Unit
PPAR                 -  Project Performance Audit Report
Repelita             -  Five-Year Plan
SK                   - Decree
SKB                  -  District Learning and Resource Center
SPEM                 -  Supervision, monitoring and evaluation system
TA                   -  Technical Assistance
TOT                  -  Training of trainers
UNICEF               - United Nations' Children's Fund
WID                  - Women-in-development
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL UJ3E ONLY
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Indonesia
AMount:             US$69.5 million equivalent
terms:              Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Proiset
Description:        The Third Nonformal Education Project would contribute to
improving the human capital of the poor, through enhancing
their basic education and income-generating skills, by
assisting the DI-Rctorate of Community Education (Dikmas)
to improve and expand its existing aorformal education
(NFE) programs and to develop and tee's- new programs to
meet the changing needs of its clientele. The project
would have three parts: the Basic Program, the Intensive
Program, and National Support Services. The Basic Proarrm
(BP) would continue the provision of basic literacy
training ("Paket A") to illiterates and primary school
dropouts throughout the country. The Intensive Program
(IP) would implement a special strategy comprising
modified and new programs and test a more intensive
delivery system in about one-quarter of the poorest
subdistricts, especially targeted to low-income
beneficiaries. The IP would comprise: (a) a strengthened
version of the Paket A literacy training program aimed at
consolidating basic literacy and developing higher leels
of functional literacy; (b) development, testing, revision
and limiited implementation of an out-of-school equivalent
("Paket B") to lower secondary education; (c) upgrading
of private vocational courses, including scholarships for
low-income trainees; (d) expansion and improvement of an
informal apprenticeship program; (e) training in small
business management skills and technical assistance to
"Kejar Usaha" 'KU) income-generating groups. The National
Support Services (NSS) component would strengthen Dikmas'
capacity to design, manage, deliver, monitor and evaluate
the now strategy to be Implemented through the IP, as well
as to carry out its ongoing NPE programs.  The NSS
component would support: (1) improvement of the quality of
preservice and inservice staff training for NFE staff, and
training of trainers for staff of private vocational
courses; (2) construction/renovation and equipment of NFE
support facilities, including Dikmas headquarters,
district and regional resource centers; (3) improved
project management and implementation systems for the IP
Th;  cument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of th. L official duties. Its contents msy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
areas; and (4) strengthened c.pacity for monitoring and
evaluation of project implementation and program impact.
Benefits:            The project would contribute to the Government's poverty
alleviation, human resource development and WID
strategies. it would improve and consolidate the basic
education and family life skills of about 1.5 million
adults, through provision of the 'Paket A" literacy
training program. Most of these would be illiterates or
primary school dropouts who have been bypassed by the
formal education system, and are expected to be below the
poverty line. The income-earning opportunities of about
400,000 disadvantaged beneficiaries from poor target areas
would be improved, through provision of vocational and
income-generating skills. Improved basic aad income-
generating skills would allow poor people to increase
their productivity and incomes, improve their access to
public services, and participate more effectively in the
overall growth process. Women are expected to account for
at least 60X of literacy learners and over half of income-
generating program beneficiaries, and their participation
would have important benefits in terms of improved family
health and nutrition, acceptance of family planning,
encouragement of their children's education and increased
interest in community development. The project would
strengthen Dikmas' capacity to develop, test and implement
new programs to meet changing needs for nonformal
education and to improve its outreach to poverty groups.
Risks:               Previous strong implementation performance under two Bank-
financed projects and provision for annual project reviews
reduces overall implementation risks. However,
ineffective targeting of project services could undermine
their poverty impact. This risk would be reduced through
agreed selection criteria and procedures and strengthened
project monitoring systems. Lack of sufficient staff,
particularly at the field level, and inadequate recurrent
funds would impede improvement of program quality and
targeting. Approval of a Staffing Action Plan and
financing of incremental recurrent costs, including
honoraria for additional contract field staff, under the
loan would reduce this risk.



- ili -
Estimated Costal                            Local        Foreian      Total
-(US$ million)--------
Basic Program
Basic Literacy (Paket A)                8.7          0.9          9.6
Intensive Program
Intensive Literacy (Paket A)           19.9          3.5         23.4
Secondary Nonformal (Paket B)           2.4          0.2          2.6
Private Courses (Diklusemas)            3.1          0.1          3.2
Apprenticeships (Magang)                7.2          0.2          7.4
Income Generating (Kejar Usaha)        12.8          1.2         14.0
Subtotal                     45.4          5.2         50.6
National Support Services
Staff Development                      10.3          1.4         11.7
Facilities                              3.5          2.5          6.0
Project Management                      3.9          2.8          6.7
Supervision, Monitoring & Eval.         3.2          0.4          3.6
Subtotal                     20.9          7.1         28.0
Total Base Costs              75.0        13.2         88.2
Physical Contingencies                  1.4          1.0          2.4
Price Contingencies                     7.8          0.9          8.7
Toztal Cost /a               84.2         15.1         99.3
Financina Plan:                             Local       Foreign       Total
---------(US$ million)-------
Government of Indonesia               28.9          0.9          29.8
IBRD                                  55.3         14.2          69.5
Total Financing             84.2         15.1          99.3
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million)
Bank FY        1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Annual        2.5    5.5      11.5    18.4    16.4    12.0       3.2
Cumulative   2.5    8.0       19.5    37.9    54.3    66-3   69.5
Rate of Return:  Not Applicable.
|Mao: IBRD No. 23239
La Inclusive of taxes and duties estimated at US$2.4 million.



- iv -
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION' PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  ISSUES IN NONFORMAL EDUCATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
A. Background and Sector Setting  . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
Education and Poverty  . . . . . . . . . . . . . o . .        1
Nonformal Education Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2
B. Issues in Nonformal Education  . . . . . . . . . . . .        4
Need for Differentiated and More Advanced Educational
Content   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .    .    . *  .  4
More Systeraatic Training in Income-Generating Skills .       5
Targeting to Poverty Groups  .         . . . . . . . .        6
Insufficient and Inadequately Qualified Staff  . . . .        7
Program Management, Coordination, Finance and
Monitoring   .  .......      . .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  . . .  8
C. Government Strategy  ... .  .  .  .  .  .   ...........    .  10
II.  LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE AND BANK STRATEGY . . . . . . . . .       11
A. Lessons of Experience from Education and Training
Projects in Indonesia  . . . . . . ..                   .  11
B. Lessons from Nonformal Education Projects  . . . . . .       11
C. Bank Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement . . .       12
III.  THE PROJECT ..  .       .  .  .  . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .  13
A. Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       13
B. Project Description   ...        .  .    ..... . . .....     14
The Basic Program   .    . .  .   . . . . .   . . . . . .    14
The Intensive Program     .  .  . . . . .   . . . . . .      14
Selection and Phasing of IP Target Areas and
Beneficiaries . . . . .  .......    .  . . . . .         15
Educational Programs ... .  .   ..     .......   .           15
Income-Generating Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       17
National Support Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      20
Staff Development  . . . . . . . ..... . .   . . . . . .    21
Program Management and Support . . . . . . . . . . . .      23
Supervision, Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation  . .      24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Indonesia in February/March 1991, comprising Roslyn Hees (senior project
economist, mission leader), Carol Ball (projects assistant), Kathleen McCollum
(operations officer), Sachi Takeda (economist), Julie Viloria (institutional
specialist) and Daniel Moulton (educator, consultant), and a post-appraisal
mission by Ms. Hees in June 1991. Peer reviewers included: John Burrows
(ASSAG - rural development); Om Nijhawan (ASlPH - poverty); Bernard Salom6
(AFTPH - training); and J.D. Von Pischke (AS1lE - credit). The report vas
approved by Marianne Haug, Director, A5S and Clifford Gilpin, Chief, AS5PH.



-v-
Pare No.
IV.  PROJEC  INPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
A. Implementation Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
Project Management Structure . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
Role of Learning and Resource Centers  . . . . . . . .   27
Improved Coordination Among NFE Activities . . . . . .   27
Field-Level Project Implementation Arrangements  . . .   28
B.  IFE  Staffing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  28
StaffingActiPnPlan....,               ............       28
Technical Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
C. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Review . . . . . . .   30
Program Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . .   30
Project Review Processes . . .. . . . . o .    .     . .  30
V.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING . . . . . . . . . . ..  . . .   32
z.   v-osts  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    .  .  .  .  32
B.  Financing    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  *  .  .  .  34
C. Procurement    .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   *  *  . 9   *   .  35
1). Disbursements    .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .    . .   .  .  .  .  38
E. Accounts and Audits  ......... . ......                  39
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS  ... ..  .*......... .                    40
Benefits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .    .  40
Risks  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .                    .  .  .  .  .  .  41
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMESNDATION . . . . . . . . . .    41
ANNEXES
Annex I  Nonformal Education Programo During Repelits IV
Annex 2  Beneficiary Characteristics, Second Nonformal Education Proj ect
Annex 3  NFE Staff and Vacancies, by Location
Annex 4  Lessons of Experience from Bank-Group Financed Education and
Training Projects in Indonesia
Annex 5  Selection Criteria and Procedures for Intensive Program Subdistricts
and Beneficiaries
Annex 6  Beneficiary Targets, Intensive Program
Annex 7  Paket Bs Criteria for Assessment of Revised. Program
Annex 8  Private Training Courses and Apprenticeship Programs:  Selection
Criteria and Scholarships
Annex 9  Criteria and Proceedures for Contracting NGOs to Provide Technical
Resource Persons
Annex 10 Eligible Components for Higher Education Institutional Proposals
Annex 11 The Master Training Plan and Intensive Training Program
Annex 12 Local Training
Annex 13 Administrative and Operational Functions of NPE
Annex 14 NFE Staffing
Annex 15 Technical Assistance
Annex 16 Project Monitoring Indicators
Annex 17 Sumary Accounts by Year and Component



_ vi -
Annex 18 Project Financing Plan by Year
Annex 19 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 20 Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
Chart 1   The Education and Training System, 1991
Chart 2   NFE Organizational Framework
Chart 3   Project Management Structuro
MAP       IBRD No. 23239



INDO&iFSIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUtCATION PROJECT
I. ISSUES IN NONFORMAL EDUCATION
A.  Background and Sector Setting
Education and Poverty
1.1       Indonesian government policy has emphasized human resource
development and supported a rapid expansion of the formal school system (see
Chart 1). Reflecting this investment, ac_..ess to the six-year primary school
cycle is virtually universal (net primary education enrollment rates were
estimated at 982 in 1988/89), and enrollment rates for the three years of
lower secondary education have risen to about 52% of the relevant age group.
The educational le-vi of the labor force has also risen: by 1988, 552 was
estimated to have at least completed primary school, and 211 to have at least
completed lower secondary school, respectively.
1.2       Despite these impressive accomplishments, however, a large (albeit
declining) number of Indonesian adults ave still illiterate (23 million in
1985 1/) or with incomplete primary education (45 million). Illiteracy
rates are higher for females (25Z), compared to males (121), reflecting past
inequalities in access to education. In addition, about one-quarter of Grade
One entrants do not complete the primary school cycle, and increasing numbers
of young people (about one million in 1988/89) are estimated to drop out of
primary school annually. Moreover, although lower secondary education
enrollments are rising, it is estimated that about 401 of primary school
graduates or 1.4 million p.a. do not enter lower secondary school and a
further 121 or 270,000 p.a. do not complete the nine years of basic education
which the Government (GOI) has set as its policy goal for all children.
Vocational education is offered mainly at the aenior secondary level.
Technical and commercial skills training is provided in a small number of
government training centers (principally the BLK/KLK of the Ministry of
Manpower) and in private training institutions offering courses of varying
entry requirements, level, length and quality. Annual skill training
enrollments are roughly estimated at well under one million, reaching only a
fraction of the non-agricultural labor force. While nationwide data on access
by women to skill tralning is not available, a recent sample survey 2/ of
training institutions indicated that females accounted for less than 51 of
enrollments in techr.ical courses.
1/ Date of the latest intercensal population survey (SUPAS 85).
2/ Indonesia Emplovment and Training: Foundations for Industrialization in
the 1990s, Report No. 9350-IND, 1991.



1.3       Educational attainment and poverty are closely correlated in
indonesia. The recent Bank Poverty Assessment and Strategy Report 3/
estimated that in 1987 about 30 million Indonesians, or 17Z of the population,
were living in absolute poverty, and another 11 million could be described as
"near poor", with incowes close to the poverty line. The estimated incidence
of illiteracy among poor household heads is 39%, double the national rate.
School enrollment rates also vary with income level, and these differentials
increase with higher levels of education: primary school enrollment rates are
6% lower for poor than nonpoor children; the differential is 20% at the lowe:
secondary level and rises to 32% at the upper secondary level. Seventy-five
percert of poor household heads had not completed primary school, compared to
44% for all hieads of household.
1.4       Conscious of the limitations of the formal education and training
system and the role of education in reducing poverty, GOI has developed over
the last fifteen years several nonformal education (NFE) programs under the
Directorate-General of Out-of-School Educatior., Youth and Sports (Diklusepora)
of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC). The programs, which have
been implemented principally by the Directorate of Community Education
(Dikmas) within Diklusepora, have proven effective vehicles for reaching large
numbers of adults, especially women, who have been bypassed by the formal
education and training systems. The Bank has supported these NFE programs
since 1977 through the First and Second Nonformal Education Projects (Loans
1486-IND and 2355-IND), both now completed (see Chapter II).
Nonformal Education Programs
1.5       Basic Literacy.  The original core of Dikmas' NFE program; was the
functional basic literacy program known as "Paket A". This series or
"package" of self-instructional materials provides training in literacy and
numeracy in the national language (Bahasa Indonesia) through information on
basic vocational and family life skills and community development issues.
Paket A comprises several phased levels: mastery of the material at level
A-10 covers basic literacy; Paket A-20 is considered attainment of full
literacy; the remaining booklets up to Paket A-100 are designed to reinforce
the earlier materials. The centrally developed Paket A booklets are
supplemented by materials developed at the provincial or district level which
reflect local concerns and conditions. The program is taught in c.ommunity-
based mutual learning groups, with v-)lunteer tutors who receive training by
Diklusepora staff and logistical support from community leaders. An
innovative element in the Paket A program was the provision of "learning
funds": a grant of Rp 6,000 (about US$3.00 equivalent) per participant to
allow them to practice one of the vocational skills taught in the Paket A
materials.
1.6       Nonformal Alternative to Lower Secondary Schooling.  In 1989, in
response to the nev Education Law (para. 1.31), Dikmas developed and began to
test "Paket B", a nonformal lower secondary education program which would
provide both general and vocational education for primary school leauers and
3/ Indonesia: Poverty Assessment and Strategy Report, Report No. 8034-IND,
1990.



- 3 -
lower secondary dropouts. Learning materials have been drafted to cover seven
academic subjects, religion, sports and arts/culture, equivalent to the
subjects taught in lower secondary school. The program also includes a
vocational component, for which Bome 40 self-instructional skill manuals have
been drafted. Pilot implementation of this program began in late 1990.
1.7       Income-GeneratinA Programs.  The provision of "learning fundsi" as a
means of encouraging the acquisition of vocational skills and increasing
productivity WL8 expanded in the early 1980s as the core of a new program
known as the "Kejar Usaha" (KU), or income-generating learning group program.
Community leaders who had some economic activities or skills formed small
groups of low-income participants which received Rp 200,000 (slightly more
than US$100! to help launch, expand or improve the economic activity of the
group. Selected groups received larger amounts (up to US$1,000 equivalent)
fo- more complex investments. Funds were used for working capital or for
simple equipment. Group members were to "learn by doing", i.e. by
participating in the business activity, they would acquire skills and
experience which would allow them to gain employment or increase thair
incomes. Provision of funds on a revolving basis was supposed to encourage
the groups to save from their profits and to pass the funds to new groups.
1.8       Apprenticeship and Sponsored Private Training.  During
implementation of the KU program, it became evident to Dikmas staff that some
persons did not have sufficient basic vocational skills to participate
effectively in that program. A new program was thus developed, which
sponsored trainees either as apprentices ("Magang") in small enterprises or as
students in private training courses. The latter courses are supported by
Dikmas through associations of private vocational training institutions
(tDiklusemas") for which Dikmas administers certifying examinations.
Enterprises or training institutions received Rp 150,000 (about US$75
equivalent) for each of up to three trainees to cover the costs of their
training. The recipient organization was supposed to find employment for the
sponsored graduates.
1.9       Organization of NFE.  As is appropriate for a community outreach
program, Dikmas has a relatively small staff at the central level. At the
local level, Dikmas programs are administered by the Dikmas division in the
provinces, Dikmas section in the districts, and field supervisors (penilike)
in the subdistricts. In addition, the Directorate of Technical Services
(Diktenti8) is responsible for staff training and provides guidance to
Regional (BPKB) and District (SKB) Learning and Resource Centers which develop
models for learning materials, training activities, program dslivery and
extension services, and support Dikmas field activities (Chart 2).
1.10      Outreach Capacitv and Quantitative Achievements.  Dikmas has
demonstrated the capacity for effective nationwide outreach and for
efficiently implementing large-scale NFE activities, in most cases surpassing
its quantitative targets. The Second Nonformal Education Project (NFE II),
which covered activities in 17 provinces, was implemented efficiently and on
schedule. Dikmas programs are delivered in all 27 provinces and 298



- 4 -
districts. During the Fourth Five-Year Plan (Repelita IV),A/ about 8.7
million learners enrolled in Paket A programs, and of these, about one-half
were estimated to have achieved full literacy. Of the latter, 28Z sat for the
primary school equivalency examination, with an average pass rate of 90%.
About 61.6 million Paket A booklets and 15.1 million supplementary learning
msterials (1,170 titles) were produced and distributec to learning groups
(Annex 1). As regards Dikmas' income-generating programs, about 90,000 KU
groups comprising 427,000 participants received' the small learning funds, and
1,400 groups (7,800 participants) received the larger amounts. In addition,
18,400 apprentices were sponsored in informal sector enterprises and 2,700
students were sp3nsored at private training courses. Having developed
widespread quantitative coverage and effective implementation systems for
delivering NFE programs, Dikmas would now turn its attention to raising the
level, quality and relevance of these programs.
B. Issues in Nonformal Education
1.11      Despite the many accomplishments in nonformal education over the
last decade, several issues and new challenges face Dikmas. Its basic
literacy program needs refining and differentiation. New programs must be
developed to meet the r,ew policy objectives of universal nine-year basic
education. Programs for supporting income-generating activities need to
provide more systematic skill training, shifting the responsibility for
providing finance to the financial sector. To accomplish these changing and
new objectives, Dikmas' capacity for program design, management, monitoring
and evaluation should be strengthened.
Need for Differentiated and More Advanced Educational Content
1.12      New Emphasis on Post-literacy  Programs.  The original Paket A
program was developed when a large proportion of the population was classified
as completely illiterate.5/ However, nearly universal access to primary
education and the success of the Paket A program itself has shifted the
demand to post-literacy training. For example, although 192 of the adult
population (over 10 years old) was considered illiterate in 1985, only 32 of
10-19 year-olds was thus classified. The main target group for Paket A will
now be primary school dropouts and persons who did not -iieve full literacy
in earlier Paket A training or have slid back into ill't.racy. In addition to
continuing to provide basic literacy to the remaining "pure illi.erates", new
learning materials and training techr.iques are needed to consolidate and
reinforce literacy and increase reading comprehension, as well as continuing
to improve vocational, community develop.ient and family life skills. Whereas
pure illiterates cou..d be considered a relatively homogeneous group, the new
4/   "Data of Dikmas Programme in Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (Pelita
IV), 1984/85 - 1988/89" (mimeo), Directorate of Community Education,
Directorate-General for Nonformal Education, Youth and Sport, Department
of Education and Culture, Jakarta, 1990.
5/   "Pure illiteracy" is currently defined in Indonesia as never having
attended school or enrolled in Paket A programs, not by some me&sure of
competency.



- 5 -
target groups will vary according to their educational levels and training
needs, and will require differentiated programs based on needs assessments.
1.13      Testing and Refinement of Paket B.  The design of a cost-effective
model for providing an alternative mode of basic education is a complex task,
in terms of both the content and the delivery system. Considerable work has
already been undertaken by Diklusepora staff to test and modify Paket B, the
proposed nonformal equivalent for lower secondary education. Nonetheless, by
early 1991, the following t3sues regarding Paket B still had to be clarified
or resolved: (a) estimation of effective demand for nonformal lower secondary
education; (b) priority target groups and selection criteria; (c) learning
objectives for the vocational component; (d) appropriateness of the curriculum
for the learning needs of the target groups; (e) source, role, number and
remuneration of tutors and extent of self-instruction; (c) role of SKBs and
their staff in implementation; (g) need for special equipment and facilities;
(h) appropriate implementa;.on models for the vocational component, including
the use of "learning funds,; and (i) unit costs and cost-effectiveness, as
compared to the formal system. Considerable investment in testing,
monitoring, evaluation and adjustment is necessary before such a program
should be launched on a major scale.
More Systematic Training in Income-Generating Skills
1.14      Skill Transfer in the KU Program.  The objective of the KU program
is to increase income-earning opportunities for low-income beneficiaries
through skill transfer and resulting increased productivity. Three
assumptions underlay the provision of learning funds for this purpose: first,
that by joining in a group with a more skilled group leader, group members
would learn from the leader and from each other during the production or
service activity; second, that the provision of capital would allow increased
scale of production so that more persons could be employed in the group
economic activity; and third, that the capital would also allow the
acquisition of tools and equipment, which would generate higher skill levels.
Several sample studies 6/ have indicated that the group activity has often
been an effective means of mutual learning and acquisition of entrepreneurial
attitudes. On average, group incomes have risen at least in nominal terms.
However, these evaluaAions have also indicated that the learning objectives of
the KU activities were not clear and learning was not systematic. Learning
materials on vocational skills, originally prepared for Paket A, addressed
issues of business management only incidentally and on a very simple level.
Dikmas staff did not have the small business or technical skills needed to
help groups plan their economic activities or overcome problems, nor the
budget needed to enlist the help of resource persons. Consequently, while
6/   Final Report on the mid-term evaluation of the Non-formal
Educati2n/Dikmas Project II, Balitbang Dikbud, 1987; Report on Mid-term
Review, GOI-UNICEF Co-operation in Non-formal Education, IKIP Malang,
1987; "Economic and Financial Impacts of the Basic Village Level
Nonformal Education Programs", Balitbang Dikbud, 1988; "Study on Socio-
economic Characteristics and Impact of Kejar Usaha and Magang Programs",
LP3ES, 1991.



some groups achieved notable successes, others had only modest results or
failed.
1.15      ADprenticeship and Private Training.  Apprenticeship is the
traditionel means of skill acquisition in the informal sector, providing
practical experience that is clearly linked to employment opportunities.
Estimates of placement rates for Dikmas apprentices vary between 542 from the
sAmple study to 802 from Dikmas nationwide reports. However, many Dikmas-
sponsored apprenticeships did not have a clear learning plan. Learning
outcomes are more structured in private training courses, but the link between
training and employment is not built in. Although a small sample study found
902 placement rates for Dikmas-sponsored trainees, training courses must be
selected with due regard for labor demand. The quality of teaching in many
private courses needs upgrading.
1.16      Flancing for Income-Generating Activities.  Much of the focus of
the KU program as presently structured was on the provision of capital. KU
funds were originally to have been provided on a grant basis. However, a
revolving loan system was developed (the Majalengka system) whereby funds were
repaid to Dikmas along with service charges levied to cover administrative
co.its. Less than 202 of the funds disbursed during Repelita IV is reported to
have revolved to new groups, calling into question the sustainability of this
system. Dikmas staff have also been preoccupied with the financial
administration of this program, which has distracted them from their training
and technical assistance mandate. Financial reporting has nonetheless been
weaks, reflecting Dikmas' lack of financial expertise. The system for the
apprenticeship and private training programs was even more complex.
Participating enterprises and training institutions were supposed to recover
the funds from their graduates, so that the recipient organization could in
turn repay the revolving fund plus service charges to Dikmas. Estimates of
repayment for the latter programs are even lower than for the KU program.
1.17      The strategy of direct distribution of funds on a revolving basis by
Dikmas staff was developed in the early 1980., when the formal credit system
did not have a wide outreach, but the recent expansion of small-scale credit
programs has diminished this justification. On the other hand, it appears
that provision of stipends on a grant basis for apprenticeships and trainees
would be a more effective and equitable approach for these programs.
Taraeting to Poverty Grouns
1.18      Nonformal education has traditionally been aimed at poverty groups.
In view of the close correlation between educational attainment and income,
the illiterates and primary school dropouts who enroll in Paket A would be
expected to be poor (para. 1.3), and a recent sample study confirms that this
has been the case (see Annex 2). Targeting Dikmas' income-generating programs
has been lses easy and thus somewhat less successful. System-wide data on
beneficiary characteristics was not collected. Sample impact studies have
indicated that between 40-502 of beneficiaries in the KU, Magang and
Diklusemas private training programs were from poverty groups.  However, a
surprising proportion, ranging from 132 to 362 of beneficiaries, were in the
middle-income range or above, indicatir, that targeting had not been as
careful as intended. The recent Bank Poverty Report on Indonesia indicates



-7-
that poverty is more acute in particular areas or "poverty pockets".  More
precise and poverty-oriented criteria and procedures for selecting geographic
areas of concentration as well as beneficiaries (particularly for grant
funds), will be essential if NFE programs are to make a key contribution to
poverty reduction.  Increased involvement of non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) and community social service groups could also improve targeting.
1.19      Special Attention to Women.  Women are important clients of NFE
programs, due to their higher illiteracy rates as well as their relatively
lower participation in vocational training programs.  About 622 of Paket A
learners were women, and sample studies estimated that between 40-70Z of
participants in Dikmas' income-generating programs were women (Annex 2). A
special study financed by the Japan Grant Fund is expected to identify the
special constraints and training needs of women informal sector workers, in
order to help make NFE programs more re3eyant to their particular skill needs.
Insufficient and Inadequatelv Qualified Staff
1.20      High Vacancy Levels and Insufficient Field Support.  Effective
management of NFE programs is hampered by chronic under-staffing, particularly
at the field level. About 8,300 staff at various levels have full and part
time NFE responsibilities (Annex 3). Although some progress was achieved on
staffing during NFE II, there is still a 26Z overall vacancy rate, with 629
subdistricts lacking Dikmas field supervisors. The responsibility for hiring
staff below the central level rests with the heads of the MOEC provincial
office (Kanwil). Nonformal education has not received adequate priority in
allocations of staff positions among the different MOEC programs. In
addition, the more difficult field supervision duties of nonformal education
staff have not always been appreciated.
1.21      The crucial level for delivery of NFE programs is the subdistrict.
Even where staff positions are fully provided, field staff (peniliks) are
stretched so thin that effective monitoring of program quality and targeting
has not been possible. Each penilik is expected to cover all villages in at
least one subdistrict (ranging between 8-43), often in remote areas, and
handle up to 90 learning groups. District-level SKBs can only provide limited
field support. Pilot programs which contracted additional field staff
reported substantial improvements in program effectiveness. Moreover, women
constitute only 282 of all Dikmas staff and only 22 of field staff, although
close to two-thirds of NFE clients are women.
1.22      Staff Qualifications and Training.  The majority of staff are
general educators, and 402 are estimated to be former formal school teachers.
Less than 402 have university-level education, and about one-third have no
more than lower secondary education.  In addition, many staff do not hrAve
qualifications or experience in the new directions and innovative programs
Dikmas has been developing over the years, particularly as regards income-
generating programs. Under NFE II, Dikmas was able to contract 700 university
graduates as local consultants, of whom two-thirds were subsequently hired as
regular staff. These younger and better qualified staff are considered more
effective NFE workers, and Dikmas would like to recruit a higher proportion of
new staff from NFE higher education institutions.  Preservice university-level
training in nonformal education is provided by the NFE departments of the



- 8 -
Teacher Training Institutes (IKIP) and Faculties of Education (FKIP).
However, the NFE courses are still considered unduly theoretical, and their
curricula, teaching methods and equipment, learning and reference materials
need updating and upgrading.
1.23      Considerable time and funds have been invested in inservice training
for Dikmas staff, and over 200,000 training-days were provided during NFE II,
more than meeting overall quantitative targets. However, coverage by location
and staff type has been variable, and the impact of training on staff
performance has not been evaluated. In addition, a high proportion of past
training has concentrated on Dikmas operational and administrative procedures.
Training in NFE issues, principles and strategies and diagnostic skills,
including exposure to ideas and experience outside of Indonesia, should be
given greater attention. Staff training has been based on experiantial
methodology, a valuable, practical approach which links training content to
implementation experience. Nonetheless, few of the present Dikmas trainers
have been exposed to additional training methodologies through training of
trainers (TOT) courses, which could upgrade the quality and effectiveness of
the staff inservice program.
Program Management. Coordination. Finance and Monitoring
1.24      Proiect Management Structure.   Despite efforts to improve
management structure, problems persist in the central and provincial Dikmas
offices between the roles of the routine organization and the Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) created under previous projects. With the
exception of a small core project staff at the central level, staff with
project responsibilities also had routine duties. The routine structure was
organized by program function. The PIU, on the other hand, was organized by
project activities, which overlapped the routine functions. This lack of
integration has created difficulties such as neglect of some routine functions
and lack of involvement of other staff with project activities because they
had no relation to the PIU. This caused confusion among staff who had to play
two different roles at once and also hampered adequate field supervision of
project implementation.
1.25      Coordination with Other Units. Government Agencies and NGOs.  Within
Diklusepora, the national, regional and district learning materials and
training resource centers (BPKBs, SKBs) have not always been adequately
utilized to support Dikmas NFE activities. Many of the centers have been
understaffed due to past uncertainty about their administrative status. Until
1991, there were only two BPKBs at the national level; seven provincial NFE
training centers (BPMs), which were established as part of Dikmas under the
NFE I and II projects, did not have their own staff and operating budgets, and
were considerably under-utilized. At the district level, issues concerning
staff qualifications had prevented many of the 222 SKBs from receiving their
normal staff complement. With the definition of functional staff positions
for the SKBe and the conversion of the BPMs to Regional Learning and Resource
Centers (B MKs) under the technical supervision of Diktentis, these problems
have been recently resolved, but full staffing of the centers has lagged.
However, the respective roles of Diktentis, resource center staff and of
Dikmas staff at the central, provincial, district and subdistrict levels in



-9-
future NFE program implementation need to be clarified in view of the new
functions assigned to BPKB and SKB staff.
1.26      Coordination with other sections of the Ministry of Education and
with other government agencies also needs to be strengthened to improve the
technical capacity of Dikmas. Several other government agencies and NGOs
carry out nonformal training programs, particularly in income-generating
skills, and coordination among these similar program should be improved. In
addition, Dikmas must rely on other sectoral ministries, professional
associations, financial institutions and developmental NGOs to provide
technical expertise, sector-specific content and services to its programs.
Written cooperation agreements have been signed between Dikmae and several
Ministries. However, these were limited to broad agreements between the
central agencies, and arrangements are not specific enough to allow the
agencies to allocate budgetary and staff resources for this purpose.
Consequently, actual support from sectoral agencies at the provincial and
district level has been sporadic and ad-hoc.
1.27      Greater use of NGOs in program planning and implementation would
also improve the grass-roots outreach of NFE programs. Although Dikmas works
closely with the government-sponsored NGOs such as the Village Resiliency
Organization (LKMD), Family Welfare Movement (PKK), Civil Service Wives
(Dharma Wanita), Youth Movement (Karangtaruna), and with associations of
private vocational course managers and instructors (HP-PLSM/HISPI), there is a
need to involve other types of NGOs and private associations which can provide
other types of expertise, particularly for the income generating and
apprenticeship programs. Experience with NGOs has been limited and although
impressive in some areas, has not yet been developed as regards technical
inputs such as community motivation and organization, vocational training,
business management, and monitoring and evaluation.
1.28      Underfundinv of Recurrent Costs.  Nonformal education is inherently
recurrent-cost intensive. Because of its outreach nature, NFE requires
relatively little expenditures on facilities and equipment, but does require
considerable staff time and field travel. Dikmas recurrent costs have been
chronically underfunded, affecting the quality and targeting of its programs,
despite increased overall budgetary alitzations for O&M expenditures. For
example, peniliks, who are expected to supervise village-level programs
throughout their subdistrict, receive only Rp 30,000 (US$15.00) for three
months' travel costs. This has hampered effective operational support,
particularly for field follow-up activities, monitoring and evaluation,
crucial to improved targeting and quality, and undermines the sustainability
of project-financed investments. Dikmas' recurrent budget in FY1989/90 was
about US$8.4 million.
1.29      Monitoring of Program Effectiveness and Impacts.  The supervision,
monitoring and evaluation system (SPEM) for NFE programs is still deficient in
spite of previous efforts to get it going. The MIS has provided good
information on quantitative coverage and inputs. However, gaps in MIS data do
not allow key questions on program impact and beneficiary targeting to be
answered without special sample studies. In addition, the lack of feedback
from the local level has made it difficult for management to identify
implementation problems in the field, and to adjust policy, operations and



- 10 -
support. Several weaknesses of the SPEM include; i) high staff turnover and
insufficient full-time personnel for the SPEM units at the central and local
levels; ii) undefined geographic responsibilities and lack of logistics and
funding for regular field visits; iii) inadequate guidance to field personnel;
iv) lengthy and complex reporting formats; v) insufficient data processing
equipment; and vi) inadequate trainir.6 of staff in MIS systems, technology and
software, and in monitoring and evaluation techniques.
C. Government Strategv
1.30      Poverty Reduction Strategy.  Reduction of the incidence of poverty
in Indonesia is one of the main goals of Repelita V. The prime vehicle for
reducing poverty is continuation of macroeconomic policies to promote overall
growth. Complementary strategies include investment in the human capital of
the poor, as a way of raising both their quality of life and social welfare,
as well as increasing the4.r ability to participate effectively in the benefits
of economic growth. As mentioned earlier, there is a strong correlation
between educational and income levels in Indonesia, and international research
confirms the impact of literacy on productivity. Nonformal education and
training is an integral part of GOI's poverty strategy, as one of the basic
social services to be provided to the "poverty pockets" that have been left
behind in the overall growth process, ac well as a key feature of its strategy
for women-in-development (WID). Increased access to skill training and credit
to promote informal sector economic activities are also important elements in
GOI poverty and WID programs. However, government policy is now to encourage
the shift of financing for income-generating activities to financial
institutions, in order to ensure financial sustainability of the funding
arrangements.
1.31      Universal Basic Education Policy.  Human resource development,
through increased access to education and training, is a cornerstone of
current GOI policy. The Education Law No. 2 of March 1989 requires all
children to receive at least nine years of basic education (i.e., six years of
primary and three years of lower secondary education). The law also declares
out-of-school education an equally valid mode of obtaining basic education.
Paket A alrea"7 provides a nonformal alternative to primary school, and Paket
B is under development (para. 1.6) to meet lower secondary requirements.
Nonformal education is an attractive basic education alternative, due to many
young persons' economic inability tw study full-time as well as the current
lack of places in formal secondary schools and limited availability of public
vocational training programs. GOI also aims to eliminate pure illiteracy by
the end of the current Five-Year Plan (Repelita V: 1989-1994). However, GOI
concern about recent increases in primary dropout rates have indicated the
need for improvements both in formal primary education that would be addressed
in the Primary Education Quality Improvement Project, also proposed for World
Bank support, and in literacy/post-literacy training, to be supported under
the present project. Nonformal skill training also complements the more
structured vocational education provided in technical and commercial secondary
schools and in Ministry of Manpower vocational training centers.



- 11 -
II. LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE AND BANK STRATEGY
A. Lessons of Experience from Education and Trainine Proiects in Indonesia
2.1       Since the Bank Group's first project with the MOEC in 1970, sixteen
projects for a total of about US$1,108 million have been approved in the
education sector in Indonesia. In addition to projects with the MOEC, the
Bank has supported training in specialist and professional fields through ten
free-standing projects for a total of about US$700 million in several other
Ministries. Projects have ranzad from nonformal education to post-graduate
education, and have included support for training in agriculture, accountancy,
public works, and industrial skills. As has happened in other countries, the
initial focus on specific investments has shifted to a subsector approach, in
order to address policy and institutional issues more effectively. Annex 4
gives more detail on these projects and on experienced gained during their
implementation.
2.2       The iollowing lessons have been learned from previous and ongoing
projects in Indonesia: (a) policy change in the education and training
sector takes time and may require several lending operations for full
institutionalization; (b) initial empl'asis on quantitative expansion should be
followed by increased concern for the quality of education services;
(c) support for public sector training should be complemented by selective
support for training by private institutions; (d) effectively addressing
issues of staffing, staff incentives and career development prospects is
crucial to the institution-building effect of projects; (e) insufficient
effort has been made to evaluate the impact of inservice staff training and
adjust training programs accordingly; (f) more care needs to be given to
planning and monitoring of project-financed technical assistance and studies;
(g) decentralized project implementation requires more intensive field
supervision from both central agencies and Bank missions; (h) provision for
adequate recurrent cost funding, particularly for operations and maintenance
costs, is essential to project sustainability; (i) greater concern for the
equity impact of education and training services will require more effective
targeting of project inputs; (j) greater attention should be paid to
monitoring the outcomes and impact of project-financed investments as well as
the provision of inputs and coverage; (k) project replicability and
sustainability will require identification of process and output indicators,
monitoring of project performance and flexibility in adjusting project design
and delivery systems.   The above lessons of experience have been reflected in
the design of the proposed project.
B. Lessons from Nonformal Education Proiects
2.3       In 1986, the Bank carried out a review of all World-Bank financed
education projects approved through 1985 (92 projects) which included
nonformal education and trzining components.7/ The review concluded that
Z/   Review of World Bank Operations in Nonformal Education and Trainina,
Ralph Romain and Lenor Armstrong, Education and Training Department
Discussion Paper, Report No. EDT-63, 1987.



- 12 -
the following aspects of such activities need careful attention to increase
ouccessful outcomes:
(a) active participation of borrower staff in identifying and preparing
NFE activities, in order to ensure high country commitment to the
programs;
(b) needs analyses of the potential clientele, as a prerequisite to
launching large-scale NFE programs;
(c) close attention to management capacity, administrative structures,
clear implementation arrangements, and measures for effective
monitoring and evaluation;
(d) adequate resources for provision of instructional materials and for
staff training;
(e) increased concern with the training and learning aspects of income-
generating programs;
(f) programs sufficiently flexible to respond to the needs of particular
groups within the overall clientele and to changes in client needs;
(g) adequate recurrent budget support, particularly for project-related
operating expenses.
2.4       The recently completed Project Completion Report (PCR) for NFE II
identified several shortcomings in project design and implementation which are
addressed in the propused project. In response to the issues identified
during implementation of NFE I, NF' II emphasized greater attention to program
quality and to monitoring and evaluation of program impact. However, strong
emphasis continued to be placed on expanded coverage, and the monitoring
system did not assess program quality or effectiveness. Field-level
supervision was weak, resulting in ineffective targeting and inadequate
management of the funds for income-generating activities. Project management
arrangements, including the roles of regional and district resource centers,
other sectoral agencies and NGOs, need to be clarified and strengthened. The
above concerns have been taken into account in the design of the proposed NFE
III project.
C. Banl; Strategv and Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.5       Human Resource Development.  Assistance for human resource
development continues to be a major element of Bank strategy in Indonesia,
both as a means to alleviate poverty and as a prerequisite for sustained
economic growth. However, as Indonesia's educational system moves close to
meeting reasonable levels of access and coverage, the focus of Bank assistance
has shifted to sustaining and consolidating those gains while supporting
efforts to improve quality. Bank support would also be continued to fill
skill gaps identified as critical for economic growth. In particular, Bank
strategy will emphasize: (a) more equitable access to the benefits of basic
education and out-of-school learning opportunities for disadvantaged groups;
(b) improvement in the quality of the learning process through a redirection
of financial resources to O&M and through an improvement in the quality of
inputs (teachers, learning materials, etc.); (c) the consolidation and
sustainability of institutional changes, many of which are recent and still
fragile; (d) an improved regulatory environment and incentives in support of
the private sector, especially in the provision of higher education and



- 13 -
vocational training; and (e) better management and coordination of education
and training programs.
2.6       The proposed project would complement other elements in the Bank's
overall human resource development strategy. As mentioned above, improvement
of the quality of formal basic education, including improved targeting of
compensatory support to poverty areas, is being pursued under the Primary
Education and Quality Improvement Project. Bank lending also supports quality
improvement within formal secondary and higher education. Vocational training
for industry and agriculture is supported under the Manpower Development and
Training Project with the Ministry of Manpower and under two projects for
Agricultural Training and Tree Crops Human Resource Development Projects with
the Ministry of Agriculture. The training supported under these projects is
more formally structured and of a higher technical level than the income-
generating skills traini.ig supported under NFE.
2.7       Poverty hlleviation.  Promoting poverty reduction, including special
attention to particular problems of women, is a major element in the Bank's
overall strategy for Indonesia. The proposed project would support this
strategy by providing a basic service, nonformal education and training, to
disadvantaged areas and groupA who have been bypassed by formal systems, to
improve their quality of life and productivity. As basic literacy becomes
more widespread, the Bank has encouraged Dikmas to reorient the content and
delivery of its NFE programs to fill new training needs and to target them
more effectively to poverty beneficiaries. While Dikmas has extensive
experience in basic literacy training, its new programs which focus on post-
literacy and income-generating skills and require targeted delivery systems,
could benefit from international experience, and Bank financing would
therefore be concentrated on the latter activities.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Oblectives
3.1       The Third Nonformal Education Project (NFE III) would contribute to
improving the human capital of the poor, through enhancing their basic
education and income-generating skills. It would assist Dikmas in fulfilling
its original mandate to address and reinforce basic illiteracy, a major aspect
of poverty, as well as to provide higher levels of functional literacy to neo-
literates. It would also support the development of programs to carry out new
mandates for NFE to meet the changing needs of its clientele, such as
provision of a nonformal alternative to school-based lower secondary
education. Finally, the project would restructure Dikmas support for income-
generating activities and vocational training, to improve the quality and
targeting of Dikmas' programs to increase the productivity and employment
prospects of poor people working in the informal sector, particularly women.
3.2       The project would have three parts:  the Basic Program, the
Intensive Program, and National Support Services. The Basic Program (BP)
would continue the provision of the basic Paket A program throughout the
country. The Intensive Proaram (IP) would implement a special strategy



- 14 -
comprisiug modified and new programs and test a more intensive delivery system
in about one-quarter of the poorest subdistricts, especially targeted to low-
income beneficiaries. The National Support Services (NSS) component would
strengthen Dikmas' capacity to design, manage, deliver, monitor and evaluate
the new strategy to be implemented through the IP, as well as to carry out its
ongoing NFE programs. Detailed project implementation would be carried out
according to criteria and procedures agreed between GOI and the Bank.
B.  Project Descr:Ltio_
The Basic Prozram (base cost US$9.6 million)
3.3       The Basic Program would provide the first level of Paket A (through
Paket A10), corresponding to basic literacy, to approximately 900,000
illiterate and primary school dropouts aged 15-44. The BP would be provided
throughout Indonesia, including the subdistricts covered under the IP (para.
3.7), and is intended to complement the government's national illiteracy
eradication program.
3.4       The BP would support the formation of about 90,000 Paket A learning
groups (approximately 10 learners each). As in the past, the groups would be
assisted by volunteer tutors, who would on average work with thirty learners,
and would receive Paket A booklets and supplementary learning materials.
Tutors would be given bricf training by SKB and Dikmas staff. The practice
developed under the NFE II project. of groups of tutors forming a Tutor
Association as a vehicle for mutual support and cooperative economic activity,
would be continued. Incentives would be provided to tutors through grants for
Tutor Association joint activities. Groups would also be provided with
"learning funds", which are small grants to help finance small-scale economic
activities in order to practice the vocational skills learned through Paket A
and to cover additional costs such as learner/tutor selection costs, tutor
travelling expenses and writing supplies.
3.5       The BP would finance the following:  (a) provision of one set of
Paket Al-20 booklets per learner, one set of Paket A21-100 booklets per group,
and supplementary learning materials equivalent to 30 pages per group;
(b) training of tutors; (c) incentives of Rp 25,000 (about US$12.50) per
tutor, paid to Tutors' Associations for joint activities; (d) learning funds
of Rp 10,000 (about US$5.00) per learner (Rp 6,000 for vocational activities
and Rp 4,000 for administrative costs and consumable materials).
The Intensive Proftrm (base cos US$50.6 million)
3.6       The IP would comprise the following components, including the
provision of contract staff to assist in field implementation (see
para. 4.10), to be delivered during three years on a phased basis in selected
poor subdistrict.t
(a)  a strengthened version of the Paket A literacy training program;
(b)  development, testing and limited implementation of the Paket B lower
secondary nonformal education program;
(c)  support to Diklusemas private vocational courses, including
sponsorship of low-income trainees.



- 15 -
(d)  expansion and improvement of the Magang apprenticeship program;
(e) training in o-mall business management skills and technical
assistance to Kejar Usaha (KU) income-Eenerating groups.
Selection and Phasing of IP Target Areas and Beneficiaries
3.7       The IP would be delivered in a total of 1,000 subdistricts from all
27 provinces. Implementation would begin in one subdistrict in each of the
300 districts in 1992/93, followed by 450 and 250 additional subdistricts in
the two following years. During negotiations, agreement was reached that IP
subdistricts and beneficiaries would be selected according to criteria and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Subdistricts would be ranked according
to a combination of (i) illiteracy rates, and (ii) primary and secondary
school dropout rates, using data from the provincial planning offices
(Bappeda) and MOEC statistics. Because of the close correlation between
educational disadvantage and poverty and the lack of comparable income data at
the subdistrict level, these rates are considered tc represent adequate
proxies for poverty. An understanding was reached during negotiations that
these indicators would be used to select IP subdistricts. The rankings and
final list for the first phase, covering 300 subdistricts, were reviewed
during negotiations and the lists for the following two phases would be sent
to the Bank prior to implementation.
3.8       Within the selected subdistricts, about one million program
beneficiaries would be selected according to program-specific criteria,
including poverty indicators. An understanding was reached during
negotiations on such criteria (Annex 5). The procedures for selecting
beneficiaries are as follows: In each village a committee would be organized
from the community-based organizations, representatives from social service
committees, and traditional leaders. For the literacy training and lower
secondary equivalent programs, illiterates and primary or secondary dropouts
would be identified. For the income-generating, apprenticeship and private
courses programs, a 'list of possible candidates meeting the agreed criteria
would be prepared. Special attention would be paid to ensuring that women,
who accounted for about 60Z of beneficiaries under NFE II (Annex 2), would
continue to participate actively in all IP activities. The final list would
be validated by the village head and a representative from the local grass-
roots community development organization familiar with the community.
Educational Programs
3.9       Post-Literacy: Intensive Paket A.  The Intensive Paket A would build
on and consolidate the basic literacy provided under the BP and take neo-
literate learners to higher levels of functional literacy. Provision of
Intensive Paket A would be based on the definition by Dikmas of functional
literacy levels within the overall literacy acquisition process, as well as on
a field assessment of actual competencies and learning needs. Learners would
be expected to have achieved basic literacy under the BP and complete the
highest level of Paket A (A-100) by the end of the three-year [P. A total of
600,000 learners would be covered, for an average of 60 groups per IP
subdistrict (Annex 6). Model group learning plans would be developed. The
use of learning funds would be integrated into the group learning plan, and
small additional grants for consumable materials, including practice materials



- 16 -
and writing supplies, would be provided each year. Tutors would be selected
and given incentives as in the BP, but tutor training would be lengthened to
permit greater emphasis on teaching/learning methods and the preparation of
differentiated learning plans. Each tutor would also be given a kit of
teaching aids.
3.10       The quantity, quality and range of supplementary learning materials
would be increased. Prototype supplementary learning materials, including
audiovisual aids would be developed and field-tested by the BPKBs and Dikmas
staff to correspond to the different levels/aeeds, for commercial printing
through Dikmas provincial offices. SKBs would develop and produce learning
materials based on topics and presentation with local content. Emphasis would
be put on materials which reinforce reading comprehension. Existing materials
on vocational, entrepreneurial and family skills produced by Dikmas or other
agencies would be reviewed to identify materials that could usefully be used
as is or adapted, as well as gaps to be filled by new materials. Content
inputs would be sought from other sectoral ministries or relevant NGOs. The
availability of reading materials to consolidate literacy and increase reading
comprehension would be expanded by the establishment of Community Reading
Corners (CRC), basic local libraries serving an average of two villages. CRCs
would provide a wide range of simple reading materials, produced oy Dikmas or
other agencies, that Paket A learners and graduates could use to maintain,
consolidate and expand their literacy.
3.11      The project would finance (base cost US$23.4 million):  (a) a study
to assess literacy needs by level; (b) revision and distribution of program
guidelines and manuals; (c) selection costs of learners and tutors;
(d) revision of tutor training curricula and training of trainers and tutors;
(e) tutor incentives, travel allowances and teaching aids kits; (f) provision
of one set of Paket Al1-100 booklets per group (on the assumption that they
have already achieved the first level of literacy); (g) development or
purchase and provision of supplementary learning materials equivalent to 150
pages per group; (h) development and provision of sets of audiovisual aids to
groups; (i) grants for learning funds of Rp 10,000 (about US$5.00) initially
and Rp 4,000 per annum in the two succeeding years, per learner; (j) provision
of CRC reading materials as well as storage and display kits; (k) 33 staff-
months of consultant services.
3.12      Paket r:  the Nonformal Basic Education Alternative.  The objective
of-this component is to develop curricula, teaching/learning materials and a
delivery system for an out-of-school alternative to lower secondary education,
in order to fulfill GOI policy objectives of universal nine-year basic
eduuation. Since Paket B is still at the research and development stage, the
NFE III project would initially support the continuation of intensive testing,
monitoring, evaluatiot. and revision of the initial Paket B model developed in
1989. This would include an assessment of the relative demand for the program
by Paket A graduates, primary school graduates and lower secondary school
dropouts to select the priority target population, as well as research to
determine baseline and target performance levels for the proposed beneficiary
groups. Particular attention would be paid to the vocational component of
Paket B, for which learning objectives, relevant occupations, and their
linkage to the academic component, have not yet been defined. The present
implementation model for the vocational component assumes that learners become



- 17 -
apprentices under the Magang program or are sponsored at Diklusemas private
training courses, and the learning funds have been calculated on this premise.
Current learning materials would be reviewed and revised in light of the above
analysis, and certification procedures and standards would be determined.
Finally, alternative delivery models would be evaluated in terms of their
cost-effectiveness. Of particular concern is the role of the tutor or other
staff and the extent of self-instruction. The currently proposed
implementation model assumes that six tutors would cover the academic subjects
under Paket B and would serve three groups of 20 students each, for a student:
tutor ratio of 10:1. The tutors would be supplemented by local resource
persons for the non-academic subjects.
3.13      An overall research plan would be developed for this phase of the
component, and field research monitors selected, trained and supervised. In
addition to the existing pilot Paket B groups, 15 pilot groups would be formed
and monitored in 3 provinces. Tracet studies would be carried out to assess
the impact of Paket B according to agreed indicators. During 1993, a
comprehensive assessment would be made of the effectiveness and replicability
of the revised Paket B model and a decision taken as to whether it was ready
for wider implementation, which could then be supported under the project, or
whether further research and development was necessary.  If the conclusions of
the assessment are favorable, the project would support limited implementation
of the program during the final three years.  About 850 groups (17,000
students) would be supported (Annex 6). A nominal budget has been provided
based on current implementation assumptions, which would need to be revised to
reflect the implementation model and unit costs recommended by the above-
mentioned assessment.  The implementation phase is expeated to be managed by
the district SKB8 initially, with subdistrict-level groups being formed in the
final year of the project. During negotiations, agreement was also reached
that implementation of Paket B under the project would be based on a revised
program satisfactory to the Bank. An understanding was also reached during
negotiations on criteria for assessing the revised programs (Annex 7).
3.14      The project would finance (base cost US$2.6 million):  (a) the
research and development activities described above, including the costs of
the pilot Paket B groups and the contracting and training of field monitors;
(b) selection costs of students and tutors; (c) revision and distribution of
guidelines and manuals; (d) provision of textbooks and other learning
materials; (e) training of tutors; (f) provision of a set of incentives,
travel allowances and teaching kits to tutors per group served; (g) learning
funds to support the vocational component; (h) continued monitoring and
evaluation, including impact analysis; and (i) 42 staff-months of consultant
services.
Income-Generatink Programs
3.15      Dikmas income-generating programs (IGP) are aimed at increasing the
skills and productivity of groups who have been bypassed by formal education
and training programs, in order to increase their incomes or prospects for
employment. Income-generating programs supported under the project are
designed for two target groups: (i) the unskilled very poor; and (ii) poor
persons who have already some experience in income-generating activities but
need additional management skills and technical assistance to improve their



- 18 -
technology or scale of production. The first group would be served by the
Diklusemas private vocational courses and Magang apprenticeship programs, and
the second would be served by the small business training program. A study
financed by the Japan Grant Facility would identify the special needs of women
in the informal sector and develop a methodology for local training needs
assessments.
3.16      Diklusemas Private VoLational Courses.  Private vocational  courses
are a widespread source of basic skill training. However, because these
courses are fully self-financing, they must charge fees which are unaffordable
to poor persons. This component seeks to upgrade the capacity of private
vocational courses (Diklusemas) to provide training to unskilled young people.
and to increase the access of low-income persons to such training by providing
them with scholarships. It is estimated that about 27,000 trainees would be
sponsored at about 9,000 basic level courses. Training institutions would be
identified during the baseline survey and selected on the basis of placement
rates of recent graduates. Participating institutions would help sponsored
trainees seek employment following graduation. Model curricula and course
materials would be prepared for selected vocational skills for which training
quality is low, to help upgrade teaching in Diklusemas courses. Assistance
would also be given to the preparation of examinations for the 26 subjects for
which Dikmas currently offers national certification through partner
professional associations, and to identify new subjects for which this
partnership would be developed. Training of Diklusemas course personnel is
covered under the National Support Services component. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
would be used for selecting participating training institutions and that
satisfactory model contracts would be used for providing scholarships to
trainees. An understanding was also reached during negotiations on the
selection criteria and procedures (Annex 8) and on model scholarship
contracts.
3.17      The project would support the following activities under this
component (base cost US$3.2 million): (a) preparation and distribution of
revised program guidelines and training manuals for Dikmas staff, private
course managers, course instructors, and test writers/examiners; (b) studies
of the employment placement rates of potential training institutions and to
identify new potential members of Diklusemas associations and sub-consortiums;
(c) development of model course curricula and teaching materials;
(d) production and distribution of examinations for participating training
institutions; and (e) provision of scholarships averaging Rp 200,000 (US$100)
to cover course fees and travel costs of sponsored trainees.
3.18      Matang Apprenticeship ProRram.  The Magang program would sponsor
low-income apprentices to work in ongoing business enterprises. This kind of
on-the-job training has been demonstrated in many countries as an effective
way to provide practical, immediately relevant skills and work experience to
unskilled young people who are unable to forgo income in order to receive
training.  Upon completion of their apprenticeship, which is expected to
average three months, learners would have acquired sufficient basic job skills
to enable them to obtain employment in their field of training, either as
entry-level workers or as self-employed. About 60,000 apprentices would be
sponsored at about 12,000 enterprises (Annex 6). Appropriate enterprises



-19 -
would be identified during the baseline survey, according to agreed criteria.
Grants or "scholarships" for the apprentices would be made available to the
enterprise to cover the cost of the training wage to be paid to the apprentice
and the training costs of the employer. Learning plans would be drawn up for
each apprentice by Dikmas field staff with the assistance of technical
resource persons, contracted through local NGOs, who would also assist in
monitoring their training. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank would be used for selecting
apprenticeship enterprises and that satisfactory model contracts would be used
for providing scholarships to apprentices. An understanding was also reached
during negotiations on selection criteria and procedures (Annex 8) and on
model scholarship contracts.
3.19      The project w)uld support the following activities under this
component (base cost USz/.4 million): (a) preparation and distribution of
program guidelines and manuals for Dikmas staff and participating enterprise
managers; (b) provision of two staff-days per apprentice of technical
assistance by local resource persons; (c) scholarships averaging Rp 150,000
sUS$75) per apprentice; and (d) 12 staff-months of consultant services.
3.20      Small Business Management Skills Training.  Dikmas' Kejar Usaha (KU)
program aims to assist low-income informal sector micro-entrepreneurs to
improve their skills, attitudes and knowledge in order to increase their
productivity and incomes. Several evaluations of the KU program have
indicated the need for provision of training and technical assistance in
general small business management skills to beneficiary groups. Technical
assistance financed as part of prolect preparation under the Japan Grant
Facility is expected to identify employment trends in the informal sector, the
regulatory environment for informa& sector enterprises, and the particular
constraints faced by micro-entrepreneurs, especially women, in improving or
expanding the4r economic activitiec. This would help identify new types of
informal sector activities for which. -here appears to be market demand as well
as the training needs of the target g oups for this program, to help focus the
content, design and delivery of Dikma support.
3.21      Dikmas staff and NGOs would be trained in diagnosing the constraints
and training needs of informal sector micro-enterprises and in general small
business management skills, particularly in practical, simple methodologies
for analysis of market demand and preparation of rudimentary feasibility
studies/business proposals. Special learninig materials on these topics would
be developed, their relevance and impact tested, revised as necessary and
distributed to all KU groups in the IP area. Available supplementary learning
materials on income-generating skills produced by other agencies would be
reviewed and a list of appropriate materials circulated to Dikmas staff.
Field staff could make requests for relevant materials based or. the learning
plans of their groups and these would be purchased or reprinted and
distributed to the group members.
3.22      It is expected that about 300,000 beneficiaries would be selected
(Annex 6), and formed into groups of about five persons to facilitate training
and mutual learning. The groups would be given initial training by Dikmas
field staff and local resource persons. Each group would assess its training
needs and develop a learning plan, including the preparation of simple



- 20 -
business p,roposals that could eventually be supported by credit.  During the
subealuent two years, groups c ald periodically request technical assistance
from specialized resource persons (averaging 8 staff-days per group), who
would be contracted through an NGO at the subdistrict level. Specialists
would assist Dikmas and BKPB staff in the design, preparation, testing and
revision of the learning and staff training materials, and in the training of
master trainers. During negotiations, agreement was reached that learning
plans would be developed for KU groups and for enterprises sponsoring Magang
apprentices according to model formats satisfactory to the Bank, and that
criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank would be used for selecting
resource persons providing technical assistance to the groups and enterprises.
An understanding was also reached on model learning plan formats and on
criteria and procedures for selecting resource persons (Annex 9).
3.23      Dikmas field staff and resource persons would also assist groups and
group members to determine whether they need credit, to choose an appropriate
amount and source of credit and to prepare the necessary documentation.
Several existing small-scale credit programs 8/ do not require collateral, a
major barrier to access to credit for the poor micro-entrepreneurs who are the
principal target group of the KU program, and these should be the preferred
source of credit for KU borrowers. In addition, Bank Rakyat Indonesia's
KuDedes small-scale credit program is appropriate for many of the better-
established KU groups who do possess assets for collateral.
3.24      The project would support the following activities (base cost
US$14.0 million): (a) preparation and distribution of KU program guidelines,
staff and group manuals; (b) development of special staff training materials
in micro-enterprise development and training of master trainers, provincial
trainers, field staff, local NGOs and resource persons; (c) development and
provision of learning materials on small business management skills;
(d) purchase and distribution of supplementary learning materials; (e) initial
group training; (f) provision of small grants of Rp 10,000 (about US$5.00) per
learner to purchase supplies for practice of new skills; (g) periodic
technical assistance services from resource persons for the groups; (h) 120
staff-months of consultant services.
National SupDort Services (base cost US$28.0 million)
3.25      The NSS components would strengthen Dikmas' capacity to design,
manage, monitor and evaluate the new strategy to be implemented though the IP,
as well as to deliver its ongoing programs. This would include the following
activities:
(a) improvement of the quality of preservice and inservice staff
training for NFE staff, and training of trainers for staff of
private vocational courses;
8/   Such as the Lemba-a Dana Kredit Pedesaan local financial institutions
supervised by the Regional Development Banks (BPD), the Bank Kredit Desas
and Lumbung Desas (village banks), credit unions, Indonesian Cooperative
Bank (BUKOPIN), and Bank Indonesia-sponsored Pilot Program Linking Banks
and Self-Help Groups.



- 21 
(b) construction/renovation and equipment of NFE support facilities,
including Dikmas headquartezs, BPKBs and SKBs;
(c) improved project management and implementation systems for the IP
areas;
(d) strengthened capacity for project monitoring and evaluation.
Staff DeveloDment
3.26      Preservice Training.  In order to improve the effectiveness of NFE
staff recruited at the graduate level, the project would support upgrading of
curricula and teaching methods for preservice training at NFE Educational
Manpower Development Institutions (LPTK-PLS) at 10 teacher training institutes
(IKIPs) and 3 university education faculties (FKIPs). Particular attention
would be paid to increasing the practical content of the NFE undergraduate
level (SI) courses. Curriculum development would be based on current
qualifications and revised job descriptions of NFE staff. Greater practical
course content would be encouraged through development of on-campus "lab-
sites" for NFE income-generating programs and expanded student field research
activities. Support would also be provided to increase academic research on
NFE issues, teaching methods and materials. Regular NFE seminars and
publications would promote strengthening of the professional network between
the IKIP/FKIP instructors, students and Diklusepora staff.
3.27      Each participating educational institution would submit a proposal
for grant support to Dikmas, specifying the activities to be financed and
amounts needed (see Annex 10). The project would also finance the annual
publication of a professional NFE journal by one of the participating
institutions. Selected NFE graduates would also be sponsored for masters'
degrees (S2) at participating institutions (see also para. 3.30).
3.28      Inservice Training.  The project would assist in upgrading the
content, format and methodology of the existing inservice training system, to
increase its impact on staff effectiveness. The training would be planned and
materials developed based on a Master Training Plan, which would include data
from training needs assessments, revised job descriptions for Dikmas and
relevant Diklusepora staff, and evaluations of the implementation of training
sessions. A PMU working group and selected BPKB staff, supported by
specialists, would plan and conceptualize the development of the Master
Training Plan (MTP), including development of appropriate instruments and a
training monitoring system. This group would supervise similar analysis and
planning undertaken by staff from the BPKBs, Dikmas provincial offices and the
SKBs, which would be incorporated into the master plan. Development of
tralining of trainers (TOT) would be an important element of the MTP. The MTP
would be updated annually to reflect qualitative assessments of the results of
the previous year's training, including the impact of the training on staff
performance, in addition to quantitative data and plans for the subsequent
year. During negotiations, agreement was reached that inservice staff
training (including the intensive training program mentioned in paras.
3.31-32), would be based on a Master Training Plan satisfactory to the Bank,
which would be reviewed jointly by the Government and the Bank by October 31,
1992 and updated annually thereafter. An understanding was also reached on
the proposed components of the MTP (Annex 11).



- 22 -
3.29      As well as providing orientation on Diklusepora policies,
administrative and operational procedures and program implementation
guidelines, inservice programs would include the following general topics:
(a) issues and strategies in NFE; (b) learning materials development;
(c) development of needs assessments, learning objectives, and learning plans;
(d) training management, including planning, organizing, and monitoring of
training; (e) training design, including curriculum and training materials
development; (f) training methods, including TOT; and (g) program monitoring
and evaluation. Program specific-training, such as for tutors, is described
under the program in question.
3.30      As in the past, virtually all levels of Dikmas staff as well as BPKB
and SKB staff and village-level facilitators would receive inservice training,
although not all staff would be covered every year. Annex 12 sets out the
number of training-days to be provided by level/type of staff; these
quantitative targets would be revised each year as part of the Master Training
Plan, as indicated above. Most training would be carried out by Diktentis
staff from the BPKBs and SKBs in collaboration with Dikmas staff. At the
national level, short-term local fellowships would be provided in program
management, training development and computer programming/MIS as well as
fellowships for domestic masters' degrees (see also paras 3.27). In addition,
selected Dikmas staff would receive overseas fellowships for master's level
degrees in NFE or related fields. TOT at the regional and provincial level
would be introduced. Extra training would be provided for peniliks and field
workers from the IP.subdistricts.
3.31      Intensive Training for Core Staff.  Because of the increased
complexity of the NFE III project, it is proposed that a core group of Dikmas
and Diktentis staff at the central level be given intensive training over a
period of 4-6 months to increase their technical knowledge of issues,
strategies, program concepts, methodologies and techniques in nonformal
education. The trainees would include members of the PMU working groups (see
para. 4.4), BPKB staff and other resource persons who could provide long-term
service to the project.   The purpose of such training is to expose staff to
the new ideas and experiences in nonformal education being developed and
implemented throughout the world, particularly as regards the changing demand
for post-literacy and income-generating skills training, and to allow
exploration of the relevance of these other approaches to NFE needs in
Indonesia.
3.32      Although Dikmas has extensive experience in functional literacy
training and training of trainers, many of the staff have not kept abreast of
the new techniques developed recently. In addition, Dikmas does not yet have
much experience in post-literacy basic education or in small business
training, two of the new programs being developed under NFE III. The training
would be tailor-made for the needs of the group, but would not concentrate on
existing Dikmas programs, for which training is regularly provided already.
In addition to financing the actual training (including preparatory and
follow-up activities), the project would support provision of a wide variety
of reference materials to provided to the BPKBs and Dikmas. During
negotiations, an understanding was also reached on the approach to be used for
the intensive staff training program, including qualifications of the training
institutions, location/format and methodology (Annex 11).



- 23 -
3.33      Training for Diklusemas Staff.  Vocational training in the private
Diklusemas courses is highly vrariable in quality, due to the lack in many
cases of adequately trained staff. Staff of Diklusemas associations and sub-
consortiums or from the BPKBs would be trained under the project as master
trainers for course managers, instructors and test writers/examiners for high
priority skills, selected according to evaluations by Dikmas cf skill demand
and course quality. Training materials would be developed or revised for this
purpose and master trainers would be trained who would in turn train
provincial staff in a "cascade" approach to development of training capacity.
3.34      The project would finance (base cost  JS$11.7 million):  (a) grants
to participating preservice training institutions; (b) development and
revision of the Master Training Plan, including planning and program review
workshops; (c) TOT and development and production of training curricula and
materials; (d) delivery of training courses; (e) costs of the Intensive
Training Program, including preparatory language training and purchase of
reference materials; (f) short- and long-term fellowships; and (g) 51 staff-
months of consultant services.
Program Management and Support
3.35      Program Support Facilities (base cost USS6.0 million).  Although NFE
is basically a village-based outreach activity, support services such as staff
and tutor training and learning materials development are needed to back up
field work. The project would provide upgrading and development of NFE
support facilities. This includes construction of 20 new and renovation of
about 50 existing district resource and training centers (SKBs), provision of
vehicles and equipment for the recently converted BPKBs (see para. 1.25), and
renovation of Dikmas central headquarters.
3.36      The existing designs for new SKBs used under previous projects are
being reviewed and further improved on the basis of past experience.
Preliminary designs have been prepared and appear suitable. The PMU/PIUs
would engage architectural consultants to prepare final designs, equipment and
furniture lists and bidding documents, and the management of construction and
site supervision would be undertaken by local engineering firms. Priority
would be given in selection of sites for the new SKBs and for renovation of
existing SKBs to those districts with the highest number of IP subdistricts
and with large target populations. During NFE II, operation of the SKBs
constructed under the project was delayed substantially due to delays in
obtaining the necessary authorizations from the Ministry for State Apparatus
(Menpan). During negotiations, agreement was reached that criteria and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank would be used for selecting all locations
for SKB civil works (both construction and renovation). Agreement was also
reached that the necessary authorizations for establishment of new SKBs would
be obtained prior to completion of construction. Site selection criteria and
procedures were also reviewed and found acceptable.
3.37      Prolect Management (base cost USS6.7 million).  Under this
component, the project would support improved operational management at all
levels of Dikmas. The project would provide vans, furniture, and office,
instructional or materials production equipment, to the central PMU,
provincial PIUs, district sub-PIUs and BPKBs, with priority to the districts



- 24 _
with more than 4 IP subdistricts and based on a detailed assessment of
equipment needs. Honoraria for project staff, funds for the preparation of
audited project accounts and incremental O&M expenditures are also included.
The subdistrict offices under the IP progrem would receive typewriters and
about 600 motorcycles or motorboats for the peniliks who do not currently have
any means of transportation, based on a field assessment. Priority for
vehicle allocation would be as follows: (1) peniliks for IP subdistricts, and
(2) peniliks in the Outer Island subdistricts who did not receive motorcycles
under NFE II. Consultant services (72 staff-months) in management and in NFE
strategic planning would be made available to the central PMU. Lump sum
amounts would be provided during the last phase of the project for preparation
of future projects. During negotiations, agreement was reached that project-
financed equipment and vehicles would be allocated on the basis of a plan
satisfactory to the Bank. Such a plan would be based on a needs assessment of
current office and transport facilities.
Supervision, ReRorting. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.38      Proiect Monitoring.  In view of the renewed emphasis on quality of
nonformal education, degree of community participation, and innovative
delivery strategies supported under the project, as well as the concern in GOI
that NFE programs should be better planned and maintained, a much stronger
project eupervision, monitoring an-d evaluation system (SPEM) is needed. The
system should provide timely information and rapid feedback, both on
quantitative and qualitative aspects of project effectiveness, so that
improvements in project inputs and management can be made during project
implementation.
3.39      The PMU would review the existing operation of SPEM, covering the
design of (i) baseline surveys to be undertaken prior to project start-up in
the IP areas; (ii) an MIS system for project management and performance
monitoring, (iii) an institutional and process monitoring and evaluation
system, and (iv) collection of information needed for impact evaluations.
Workshops and sample studies carried out with the assistance of specialists
would recommend changes in the type, quantity and frequency of data collected,
improved questionnaires and reporting formats, and procedures for data
gathering, processing, analysis and reporting. The staffing, staff training
and technology needed for improved operation of SPEM would be determined in
the light of the above review. During negotiations, agreement was reached
that a revised system for SPEM with a baseline survey, monitoring indicators
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, would be put into place by April 1,
1993.
3.40      Researcb and Evaluation.  The project would support two kinds of
research and evaluation activities. The first would comprise "action
research" or pilot activities for the development of new programs that Dikmas
is expected to provfide according to the new Education Law No. 2 (para. 1.31),
covering family education, play groups and programs by other educational
units, as well as research to solve existing problems and test new ideas or
models. Topics for action research would be identified as the project
proceeds.



- 25 -
3.41      The project would also finance impact studies.  The new program
etrategies and delivery systems under the IP wold he evaluated during
implementation in order to determine their impact 9 cst-effectivenese and
replicability. These studies would emphasize the qualiLative assessment of
program activities, processes and outcomes antd could cover the impact of new
or modified learning materials and methods, program content, delivery systems,
staffing patterns, etc. A special analysis of the effectiveness of the
subdistrict field workers in the IP areas would be carried out following the
completion of the IP in the first 300 subdistricts. Impact studies would be
contracted to outside agencies such as NGOs, IKIPs, Balitbang Dikbud, etc.
3.42      The SPEM working group (see para. 4.4) would be responsible for
determining the topics, objectives and methodology of the action research and
impact studies and for contracting with the implementors in close coordina_ion
with the working groups for program development and technical and manpower
training. Topics, terms of reference and proposed implementing agencies for
the action research and impact studies would be submitted to the Bank for
review and comment, as part of the annual project review process (see para.
4.19).
3.43      The project would support the follcwing activities (base cost US$3.6
million):  (a) improved field supervision through regular staff visits to all
provinces, districts and subdistricts; (b) preparation of semi-annual reports
aggregating information from all operational levels; (c) improvement in
;         electronic data processing systems through provision of micro-computers to the
national and provincial offices and related staff training; (d) baseline
surveys for the IP subdistricts; (e) workshops and field studies on the SPEM
system; and (f) action research and impact studies.  The project would alco
support 40 staff-months of consultant services for SPEM operations.
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Arrangements
Proiect Management Structure
4.1       The Directorate-General for Out-of-School Education, Youth and
Sports (Diklusepora) within the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) would
be responsible for implementing the project. The Directorate of Community
Education (Dikmas), and its staff at the provincial, district and sub-district
levels, would manage project implementation as part of its overall NFE
programs. The Directorate of Technical Manpower (Diktentis), through the
regional and district learning and resource centers (BPKBs and SKBs), would
provide technical guidance and support to Dikmas.  Annex 13 presents a more
detailed description of the current organizational structure of NPE programs.
4.2       The project would use the existing structure and routine functions
of Dikmas and would incorporate functions created under the first two NFE
projects with the following modifications. Overall management of the program
and coordination of activities at all levels would be the responsibility of a
Project Management Unit (PMU) which would be established at the central Dikmas



- 26 -
office. The PMU would be supervised by the Director of Dikmas and a core
group comprising the heads of the existing sub-directorates and the finance
and administration unit, who would assign qualified staff to PMU working
groups and guide and oversee their activities. Chart 3 illustrates the
proposed management structure and its linkages.
4.3       Dikmas would maintain the Project Technical Secretariat established
under the NFE II project, as part of the PMU. A Project Manager has already
been appointed, who would be responsible for project administration,
consolidated budgeting and accounting, supervision of overall procurement and
preparation of progress reports and management information for GOI and the
Bank.   The PMU would develop an annual work program for the project,
including quantitative output targets, in consultation with provincial and
district offices, incorporate this program in its annual development budget
(DIP) and relevant provincial DIPs, and release funds for all project
investments, activitic3 and related recurrent costs.
4.4       The planning and programming functions and staff of the PMU would be
expanded to include four technical working groups: (i) Supervision.
reporting. monitoring and evaluation. (SPEM), responsible for developing
monitoring and information systems to provide rapid feedback and evaluation of
all NFE project activities and for supervising project-financed action
research and impact studies; (ii) Program development, responsible for
developing technical guidelines and program planning for the development of
the main Dikmas programs, including new NFE mandates under the Education Law.
This working group would in turn be divided into two subgroups for basic
education and income-generating programs; (iii) Learning materials
development, responsible for preparing guidelines for curricula, content,
format and media of teaching and learning materials and coordinating their
development and production or purchase; and (iv) Technical manpower and
training, responsible for the monitoring of the NFE Staffing Action Plan
(para. 4.12), the preparation of the MTP and the implementation of the staff
development program. The central level technical secretariat would be staffed
by 21 full-time professional and support staff and each working group would
comprise between 8-15 staff who would devote at least 75Z of their time to the
project. In order to carry out these expanded functions, additional suitably
qualified staff would be recruited for the PHU (para. 4.12).
4.5       Project Implementation Units (PIU) similar to the central level
organization would be organized at the provincial level under the supervision
of the PMU (see Chart 3). The PIUs would contract for the procurement of
vehicles, printing of most learning materials, provision of subdistrict field-
workers and arrangements with NGOs for the provision of local resource
persons. The PIU technical secretariat would comprise 11 full-time staff and
each working group would have 6-10 members. At the district level, staff
would be assigned by the Dikmas office head to work on the project. At the
subdistrict level, Dikmas field supervisors (peniliks) would be responsible
for project-supported programs. To implement the new arrangements, a
modification of the earlier ministerial decrees has been approved 9/
specifying:  (i) roles and responsibilities of the PMU/PIUs and linkages with
9/   Ministerial Directive No. 0546/0/1991, dated September 26, 1991.



- 27 -
the routine program functions; (ii) roles and functions of the technical
secretariat and working groups.
Role of Learning and Resource Centers
4.6       The Dikmas PMU, PIUs and peniliks would be supported by the regional
and district learning and resource centers (BPKBs and SKBs) under the
technical supervision of Diktentis. The role of the BPKBs would be to:
(a) develop, test, produce and distribute curricula and prototypes for
learning and teaching materials; (b) collaborate in the preparation and
updating of the MTP and carry out TOT; (c) provide in-service training for
Dikmas staff at the provincial and district levels; and (d) develop and test
new implementation models for nationwide replication. The SKBs would:
(i) train tutors and village-level facilitators for the various NFE programs;
(ii) develop and produce local supplementary learning materials;
(iii) organize the implementation and monitoring of Paket B; and (iv) provide
extension services to field operations as requested by the peniliks. The
exact role of the resource centers in each proiect subcomponent would be
defined by the relevant PMU working group. Although SKB staff would play a
key function in project implementation, about one-quarter of districts do not
yet have SKBs.  Arrangements for staff from existing SKBs to serve other
districts that do not yet have SKB facilities or staff have been agreed.
Improved Coordination among NFE Activities
4.7       Dikmas would establish operational linkages with sectoral agencies
and NGOs at the central and local levels through the existing National
Coordination Team for the "Education for All" (APPEAL) program, for which
Dikmas is technical secretariat. Dikmas would negotiate Memoranda of
Agreement with sectoral agencies, private sector associations and national
NGOst specifying their roles and responsibilities in NFE programs and the
inputs that would be expected of them (e.g. technical assistance, sector-
specific learning materials), including provision for budget and staff
support. In turn, the central agencies would be expected to issue guidelines
to their local offices regarding Dikmas' work program and request for support.
In addition, other MOEC units such as Balitbang Dikbud, universities, IKIPs,
other research institutes and developmental NGOs would be invited to
participate in project-financed action research, impact studies and monitoring
and evaluation activities.
4.8       At the local level, Dikmas staff would strengthen coordination with
other agencies through the local government authorities and the provincial
planning office (Bappeda). Regular coordination meetings would be held to
identify roles and responsibilities, prepare yearly budget allocations for
each area of operational support, including provision of staff time and
trainingt during the annual planning and programmirg process (Rakorbang),
which would be formalized in administrative decrees (SK). The PHU would issue
guidelines to the PIUs and Dikmas field offices to ensure that this
interaction becomes a part of the project implementation process.



28
Field-Level ProiectJ mplementation Arrangemrets
4.9       Implementation of the Basic Program.  The delivery of the BP
literacy program would be based on the successful Paket A learning group
system already practiced in earlier projects. The penilik would meet with the
village leaders to form a village-level management committee to select
facilitators, tutors and learners. In addition, Dikmas staff in the provinces
and districts would involve local governments, sectoral agencies, NGOs and
private groups to provide assistance to the BP learning groups in the form of
supplementary materials, technical assistance and resource persons. The SKBs
would also play an important role in the BP, particularly as regards the
training of tutors and provision of extension services by SKB functional
staff.
4.10      Implementation of the Intensive Program.  The new approach in the
intensive areas would provide a more comprehensive development of NFE programs
in the selected areas and would require more extensive involvement of the
community, local social organizations, developmental NGOs, the local
goverrment and other sectoral agencies. The district local government
authority (camat) would play an important role in field-level coordination.
In the IP subdistricts, the penilik would be assisted by a team of field-
workere who would be contracted for four years to perform operational and
extension work in the villages, based out of the subdistrict office. Special
attention would be paid to ensuring that programs are adequately targeted to
poor beneficiaries within project villages. IP peniliks and field-workers
would receive expanded training with particular emphasis on community
organization and on monitoring and evaluation.
4.11      In each project subdistrict, the IP would be implemented during a
four-year development cycle that would take place in each village. This
allows for: (a) a 6-month period for the completion of a baseline survey
(para. 3.39) and needs assessment, for community preparation with village
leaders and community organizations, formation of village task forces,
contracting of NGOs for provision of resource persons, and for selection of
tutors, facilitators and beneficiaries; (b) about three years of actual
program activities; and (c) another six months to monitor program impact and
plan for follow-up activities that could be financed from other sources.
Arrangements would be made with the district SKB (or with SKB staff from
another district if necessary) to provide training, learning materials and
other services as required.
B. NFE Staffing
Staffing Action Plan
4.12      An NFE Staffing Action Plan (Annex 14) to reinforce the management
and field level support of NFE programs has been approved by thelMDEC. Under
the Action Plan, Diklusepora would strengthen its work force at all levels,
including the BPKBs and SKBs. Recruitment would reflect several project-
related priorities:  (a) at least 12 new staff for t'he central PMU with skills
in program and curriculum development, media technology, training of trainers,
financial and business management, vocational training, community
organization, and monitoring and evaluation; (b) filling penilik vacancies in



- 29 -
IP subdistricts; (c) additional staff for provincial PiUs; (d) providing
graduate-level (Si) staff to districts with high concentration of IP areas;
(e) staffing of the reorganized BPKBs to play their expanded role as resource
centers for training and learning materials development; and (f) filling
vacancies at SKBs serving districts with high concentration of IP areas and
staffing of new SKBs to be constructed under the project. In addition,
Diklusepora would emphasize the recruitment of women staff, especially as
peniliks. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Staffing Action
Plan would be implemented, including the appointment of at least 12 suitably
qualified and experienced additional staff for the PMU by June 1, 1992.
4.13      Field-Level Support.  Because of the special needs of the poor and
remote subdistricts which are the IP target areas, the more intensive and
higher quality level of services to be provided under the IP, and the need for
improved program monitoring and evaluation, the project would finance the
contracting of additional field-workers as an extension team to assist the
penilik in each IP subdistrict.  The number of field wn;kers per IP
subdistrict would vary according to the size and geographic dispersion of the
population to be served. An average of ten staff-years per subdistrict would
be provided. Field-workers would be provided with honoraria and a monthly
travel allowance. The latter would vary according to the differing transport
costs in the project provinces. The field-workers would be recruited at least
six months before start-up of the IP so that they can be given adequate
initial training and deployed to help in the baseline survey (see para. 3.39)
for their subdistrict. Use of contract staff is in line with the new
government policy of reducing the size of the permanent civil service. The
cost-effectiveness and replicability of this new delivery system would be
evaluated following implementation of the IP in the first 300 subdistricts, to
determine to what extent this approach should be continued after project
completion. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the IP would not
be implemented in any subdistrict unless it has been provided with a penilik
and the additional field-workers have been recruited, trained and deployed to
the subdistrict, as a Condition of Disbursement for key IP expenditures in
those subdistricts.
Technical Assistance
4.14      Consultant services totalling 370 staff-months would be provided to
the PHU to supplement the skills of Dikmas and Diktentis staff in technical
fields and to strengthen Dikmas' institutional capacity. Expertise would be
provided in: (a) assessment of literacy levels and development of materials
and teaching methods for different literacy levels and learning needs,
including literacy consolidation; (b) monitoring and revision of objectives,
curriculum, teaching/learning materials and delivery system for nonformal
lower secondary education (Paket B); (c) development of training programs for
staff and learning groups and of teaching/learning materials in small business
skills, financial management and small-scale credit; (d) development of the
Master Training Plan and training of trainers; (e) improved supervision,
management and coordination procedures and personnel policy; (f) learning
needs assessment and curriculum and learning materials development, production
and distribution; and (g) management information, monitoring and evaluation
systems, including the design and use of action research and impact studies.
In addition, local resource persons would be contracted at the field level



- 30 -
through NGOs to provide assistance to project-financed income-generating and
apprenticeship programs. Annex 15 outlines the timetable and purpose of
project-financed specialist services.
4.15      In addition, outside agencies including NGOe would be contracted
under lump-sum arrangements to carry out NFE action research, impact studies,
and special studies under the various components, the project completion
report and preparation work for future NFE projects. NGOs would also be
contracted to provide local resource persons (see above). Intensive training
of core PHU staff would be contracted to a specialized training institution.
Sectoral agencies would also provide technical inputs to the project (paras.
4.7-4.8), but these would be financed under their own budgets and are not
included in project costs. Annex 15 indicates the lump-sum contracts to be
financed under the project.
C. Prolect Monitoring, Reporting and Review
Program Monitoring and Evaluation
4.16      The purpose of the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system is to
assist the following users: (a) project managers (PMU, PIUs) to monitor
project progress, identify bottlenecks, and determine changes needed in
external inputs and to internal management processes; (b) government policy
makers at all levels (including MOEC, Bappenas, interagency committees or task
forces) to adjust policies, resolve problems beyond the capability of project
managers and to authorize changes to improve project management; (c) the World
Bank and other external agencies, in reviewing project progress and in policy
discussions with GOI. Monitoring indicators would focus primarily on the
three project-financed programs and their subcomponents (Annex 16). Key
indicators would include: (i) baseline data; (ii) program coverage;
(iii) project input data; (iv) beneficiary characteristics (including poverty-
related indicators); and (v) program and unit budget and expenditure data.
Program process and management information and performance data for impact
analysis would be gathered under special studies.
4.17      SPEM data would be gathered at the village level by the four
outreach field-workers, to be aggregated, analyzed and reported at the
subdistrict level by the SPEM field-worker. Further aggregation would take
place at the district, provincial and national level. Provincial and national
trends would be analyzed by the SPEM working groups within the PIUs and PMU,
who would prepare recommendations concerning NFE policy, program content and
delivery and other relevant issues on at least an annual basis to Diklusepora
management.
Proiect Review Processes
4.18      Project Progress Reports.   Semi-annual project progress reports
would be prepared and submitted to the Bank. In addition to quantitative and
qualitative data from the SPEM relating to each project subcomponent,
information would be prepared on project budgets and expenditures (both GOI
counterpart and loan funds), the status of project-financed procurement and
disbursement, and on compliance with loan covenants. The PMU would be
responsible for preparing and submitting the semi-annual reports on the basis



- 31 -
of input from the various project working groups, the SPEM system and the
PIUs.
4.19      Annual Reviews.  A joint annual review, preferably during the last
quarter of each calendar year, would be the key element of the Bank's and
GOI's project review process. It would be based on the latest progress report
and would provide an opportunity to: (a) review performance of the project;
(b) assess implementation problems and issues and help identify action
required; (c) determine future implementation targets for the various
components; (d) define impact evaluation studies or action research required
to improve implementation of NFE program as appropriate. For this reason, the
September progress report would include analysis of project performance in the
previous fiscal year and the first semester of the current fiscal year, and
projections for the next fiscal year. This process, which would be translated
to detailed annual implementation plans and bedgets, would allow flexibility
during project implementation, to adjust the input mix, implementation
arrangements, delivery systems and budget allocations, based on the monitoring
and evaluation of ongoing and past activities. During negotiations, agreement
was reached that proposed project implementation plans and budgets, based on
project performance, would be prepared annually by October 31 of each year,
beginning in 1992, and reviewed jointly b; the Government and the Bank.
4.20      Status of Prolect Preparation.  Dikmas prepared a number of working
papers, and conducted special studies to review the experience of NFE programs
carried out during Repelita IV in order to prepare detailed implementation
plans for this project. Additional studies on the characteristics and
training needs of women in the informal sector are being financed under the
Japan Grant Facility. Project start-up is expected in April 1992, and an
understanding was reached on the proposed project implementation plan and
budget for FY1992/93.
4.21      Bank Supervision Plan. *The NFE III project is a modified sector
investment loan, in which detailed project investments are not specified in
advance but determined during project implementation on the basis of agreed
overall program priorities, criteria and procedures. Moreover, the project
includes a wide range of activities requiring a variety of expertise for
adequate review of project progress. As project-financed procurement would
mainly follow LCB procedures (para. 5.9), review of procurement and of project
accounts would be concentrated in the Bank's Resident Mission (RSI). Missions
of Bank headquarters (HQ) staff would take place three times a year,
comprising two limited reviews and the more comprehensive annual review
mentioned above. During each year, such missions should include inter alia an
educator, management specialist and specialist in income-generating programs.
Annual staff-weeks required for supervision would be 15 weeks from Bank HQ and
6 weeks from RSI.



- 32 -
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Costs
5.1        The project would be implemented over a period of five years and
would be physically completed in March 1997. The total cost of the project is
estimated at US$99.3 million equivalent (Rp 194.1 billion), including
contingencies. The estimated costs by project component are summarized below
in Table 5.1 and by category of expenditure in Table 5.2. Detailed project
costs by year, purpose and components are given in Annex 17.
Table 5.1: PROJECT COST SUMHARY
2 Total
Rupiah (million)           USS (million)     2 Foreign   base
Local   Foreign   Total    Local Foreign Total  Exchange   costs
A. Basic Program
1. Basic Literacy (Paket A) 16,942.6  1,813.8  18,756.4   8.7   0.9    9.6      9.7      10.9
B. Intensive Progrm
1. Int. Literacy (Paket A)  38,982.8  6,740.7  45,723.5   19.9   3.5   23.4    14.7      26.5
2. Secondary NFE (Paket B)   4,757.9    379.3   5,137.2   2.4   0.2    2.6      7.4       3.0
3. Priv. Courses (Diklusemas) 5,983.2    288.8   6,272.0   3.1    0 1    3.2    4.6       3.6
4. Apprenticeships (Magang) 14,209.3    293.9  14,503.2   7.2   0.2    7.4      2.0       8.4
5. Income Gen. (Kejar Usaha) 25,135.1  2,273.4  27,408.5   12.8   1.2   14.0    8.3      15.9
Subtotal                89,068.3  9.976.1  99.044.4  45.4   5.2   50.6       10.1     57.4
C. National Supoort Services
1. Staff Development      20,187.3  2,663.2  22,850.5   10.3   1.4   11.7      11.7      13.3
2. Facilities              6,788.0  4,844.9  11,632.9   3.5   2.5    6.0       41.6       6.7
3. Project Management      7,629.2  5,474.6  13,103.8   3.9   2.8    6.7       41.8       7.6
4. Superv., Monit. & Eval.   6,275.0    778.3   7,053.3   3.2   0.4    3.6      11.0      4.1
Subtotal                40,879.5 13,761.0  54,640.5   20.9   7.1   28.0      25.2     31.7
Total Baseline Costs      146.890.4 25.550.9 172,441.3  75.0  13.2   88.2       14.8    100.0
Physical Contingencies     2,742.9  1,967.4   4,710.3   1.4   1.0    2.4       41.8       2.7
Price Contingencies        15,229.4  1,757.3  16,986.7   7.8   0.9    8.7       10.3      9.9
Total Prolect Costs       164.862.7 29,275.6 194,138.3  84.2  15.1   99.3       15.1    112.6
5.2        Basdline costs are estimated at October 1991 prices.  Civil works
costs are based on average square meter construction costs in the provinces
for government bu" ings. Equipment and vehicle costs are based on current
prices for simila- rtems. Teaching and learning materials costs are based on
prices currently being paid for similar items under NFE II. Consultants are
expected to be local specialists and their costs would be based on government
guidelines for appropriately qualified experts. Other technical assistance
costs such as for research, cudies and fees for local resource persons are
based on recent costs for comparable technical assistance. Unit costs for
domestic fellowships range from US$400 per staff-month for short-term and
US$99300 per staff-year for long-term fellowships, and overseas fellowships
are estimated at US$20,500 per staff-year. Short-term local training costs



- 33 -
Table 5.2. SUHHARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
I Total
RuP1ia   mgillion)- _                US$ (illion)            X Foreign      base
Local     Foreign     Total       Local      roreign   wotal    &zcbangs        costs
I. Investment Coste
A. Civil Works
1. new Buildin                      4,735.5    1,578.5    6,314.0          2.4        0.8       3.2        25.0        3.7
2. R.no. I RI9ba.litation             637.5       212.5       850.0        0.3        0.1       0.4         25.0       0.5
Subtetal                        5,373.0    1.791.0    7,164.0          2.7        0.9       3.6        25.0        4.2
3. Equip.Ilrnitula'P.hicles
1. Compv era .VAid S Softvare)         36.8       208.8       245.6        0.0        0.1       0.1        85.0        0.1
2. ('    Z.'. q-.psne                 875.2    4,959.3      5,834.5        0.5        2.5       3.0        85.0        3,4
3.  trnSti 7                          443.8       190.2       634.0        0.2        0.1       0.3         30.0       0,4
4. 71 r                               192.0    1,088.0      1,280.0        0.1        0.6       0.7         85.0       0.7
5. 9It<-czr.cl*o                      315.0    1,785.0    2,100.0          0.2        0.9       1.1         85.0        1.2
Subto.:*1                       1,862.8    8,231.3   10,094.1          1.0        4.2       5.2        81.5        5.9
C. Technical .'.,Aatn's
1 Specialics                       1,332.0       148.0    1,480.0         0.7        0.1       0.8         10.0       0.9
2. Domestic tol.;owohips              923.4       102.6    1,026.0         0.4        0.1       0.5         10.0       0.6
3. Owe $ses Fetiowshipe                54.0       306.0       360.0        0.0        0.2       0.2         85.0       0.2
4. Int Asive rfair.Ln.              1,233.0       137.0      1370.0        0.6        0.1       0.7         10.0       0.8
5. Ressorcb/S..i.es                 1,747.8       194.2    1,942.0         0.9        0.1       1.0         10.0       1.1
6. RAsource I'tre                   e, 8969.4     996.6    9,966.0         4.6        0.5       5.1         10.0       5.8
Subtotal                       14,259.6    1,884.4   16,144.0          7.2        1.1       8.3         11.7       9.4
D. Tutor Incentives
1. Tutor Assoiation                 2,374.6         0.0    2,374.6         1.2        0.0       1.2         0.0        1.4
2. Travel Allowance                 1,453.6         0.0    1,453.6         0.7        0.0       0.7          0.0       0.8
3. Teaching Kit                     2,176.8         0.0    2,176.8         1.1        0.0       1.1          0.0        1.3
Subtotal                        6,005.0         0.0    6,005.0         3.0        0.0       3.0         0.0        3.5
E. Local Training
1. Travel                           5,463.3       607.0    6,070.3         2.8        0.3       3.1        10.0        3.5
2. Accomodation & Con, .mpt.       14,278.5    1,586.5   15,865.0          7.3        0.8       8.1         10.0       9.2
3. Per Dien                        13,298.9         0.0   13,298.9         6.8        0.0       6.8         0.0        7.7
4. Honoraria                        3,363.3         0.0    3,363.3         1.7        0.0       1.7          0.0        2.0
5. Consumable Materials             1.732.2       192.5    1,924.7         0.9        0.1       1.0         10.0        1.1
6. Tr&ining Material.                 541.2        60.1       601.3        0.3        0.0       0.3         10.0       0.3
Subtotal                       38,677.4    2,446.1   41,123.5         19.8        1.2      21.0         5.9       23.8
W. Teaching/LLarning Materials
1. Materials Development            1,498.7       999.1    2,497.8         0.8        0.5       1.3        40.0        1.4
2. Kvaluation/R.vision                 27.5        18.3        45.8        0.0        0.0       0.0        40.0        0.0
3. Tryout                              12.5         8.3        20.8        0.0        0.0       0.0        40.0        0.0
4. Prod/Purch & Distribution       13,064.0    8,709.4   21,773.4          6.7        4.5      11.2        40.0       12.6
Subtotal                       14,602.7    9,735.1   24,337.8          7.5        5.0      12.5        40.0       14.1
G. Learing Funds
1. Palkt A (Basic)                  9,000.0         0.0    9,000.0         4.6        0.0       4.6         0.0        5.2
2. Paket A (Intensive)             10,400.0         0.0   10,400.0         5.3        0.0       5.3         0.0        6.0
S. Paket D                          2,493.0         0.0    2,493.0         1.3        (.0       1.3         0.0        1.4
4. Courses (Diklusems)              5,400.0         0.0    5,400.0         2.8        0.0       2.8         0.0        3.1
5. Apprenticebhipa (Maen )          9 000.0         0.0    9,000.0         4.6        '.0       4.6         0.0        5.2
6. Income Gen. (Kajar Osa6a)        3,000.0         0.0    3,000.0         1.5        0.0       1.5         0.0         1.7
Subtotal                       39.293.0         0.0   39.293.0        20.1        0.0      20.1         0.0       22.8
Total Investment Costs        120,073.5   24.087.9  144,161.4         61.3       12.4      73.7         16.7      83.6
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Honoraria                            11,698.9         0.0   11,698.9         6.0        0.0       6.0          0.0       6.8
D. Travel Allowances                     9,004.6    1,000.5   10,005.1          4.6        0.5       5.1         10.0       5.8
C. Per Diem Allowances                     918.9         0.0       918.0        0.5        0.0       0.5         0.0        0.5
D. Selection end Recruitment             1,032.9         0.0    1.032.9         0.5        0.0       0.5         0.0        0.6
r. o03   quipment/Vehiclel               2,783.8       309.3    3,093.1         1.4        0.2       1.6         10.0       1.8
F. Consumable Katerials                  1,378.7       153.2    1,531.9         0.7        0.1       0.8         10.0       0.9
Total Recurrent Costs          26,816.9    1,463.0   28,279.9         13.7        0.8      14.5         5.2       16.4
Total Raselins Costs          146,890.4   25,550.9  172,441.3         75.0       13.2      88.2         14.8     100.0
Phygieal Contingenctes              2,742.9    1,967.4    4,710.3          1.4        1.0       2.4         41.8       2.7
Price Contingencies                15,229.4    1,757.3   16,986.7          7.8        0.9       8.7         10.3       9.9
Total Proiect Costs           164,862.7    2756   194,138.3           84.2       IJ-       99.3         15.1     112.I
vary widely depending on the type of training being given and its location,
and average between US$17-45 per training-day (Annex 12). Learning funds,
tutor incentives and selection/recruitment costs are small grants for which
the amounts have been agreed between the Bank and Dikmas. Recurrent costs are
based on standard government allowances for honoraria, travel, per diem, O&H,
and consumable materials.



- 34 -
5.3       Contingencv Allowances. Physical contingencies (US$2.4 million)
represent 2.7% ard price contingencies (US$8.7 million), 9.9% of baseline
costs. Physical contingencies of 10% have been allowed for civil works,
furniture, equipment, vehicles and for production and distribution of teaching
and learning materials, 5% for technical assistance and fellowships, and 0%
for all other categories. Price contingencies have been calculated at 6% per
year for local costs and at 3.2% per year for foreign costs, for all
categories except tutor incentives, learning funds and selection and
recruitment costs.
5.4       Foreign Exchange Component.  Foreign exchange costs are estimated at
US$15.1 million (representing about 15% of total project costs) based on the
following percentages: (a) civil works - 25%; (b) equipident and vehicles -
85%; (c) furniture - 30X; (d) overseas fellowships - 85%; (e) all other
fellowships and technical assistance - 10%; (f) teaching/learning materials -
40%; (g) travel allowances, O&M expenditures and consumable materials - 10%;
and (h) per diem, honoraria, tutor incentives, learning funds and selection
and recruitment costs - 0%.
5.5       Taxes and Duties.  Identifiable taxes and duties are estimated at
Rp 4.8 billion (US$2.4 million) based on the current 10% value added tax on
all contracts for civil works, goods and teaching/learning materials.
B. Financing
5.6       The total project cost of US$99.3 million equivalent would be
financed by a proposed loan of US$69.5 million equivalent, covering 70% of
total project costs (94v of foreign and 68% of local expenditures, excluding
taxes). The Government would finance from its annual budget the remaining
costs of US$29.8 million equivalent (30% of total project costs including
taxes). An understanding was reached during negotiations on the estimated
project financing plan by year (Annex 18).
5.7       Recurrent Costs.  Incremental recurrent costs account for 16.4% of
total base costs. The additional recurrent costs required to implement the
project, particularly the new intensive delivery strategies of the IP, would
rise to about US$4.0 million p.a. (including contingencies) at their peak in
FY1995/96, of which $2.16 million represents the holnoraria and travel costs
for the additional field workers (para. 4.10), who are not expected to become
permanent civil service staff. The incremental recurrent costs that are not
associated with these field workers would average $1.4 million p.a. (base
costs), equivalent to 17% of the Dikmas FY1989/90 recurrent budget.
5.8       Provision of these recurrent expenditures is considered crucial to
the proposed strategy for achieving project objectives. Therefore, to assist
the Government in launching and testing this new delivery system and higher
quality program, the Bank would finance project-related incremental recurrent
costs for the IP and NSS components on a declining basis including: (a)
honoraria expenses for project staff and contract field workers; (b) travel
and per diem allowances for field supervision; (c) costs of selecting tutors,
learners and participating institutions; (d) O&M expenses for project-financed
facilities and equipment; and (e) consumable materials such as office supplies
used during the project period. The Bank-financed percentage for each year



- 35 -
Table 5.3:  FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Government                      IBRD
of                          Share
Indonesia     IBRD    Total       (Z)
Civil works                                2.0         2.0     4.0     50
Furniture                                  0.2        0.2      0.4     50
Equipment                                  1.0         2.3     3.3     69
Vehicles                                   0.5         1.3     1.8     69
Consultants/fellowships                    0.0         9.6     9.6    100
Tutor incentives                           1.0        2.2      3.2     69
Local training                             7.3        16.4    23.8     69
Instructional materials                    4.4        9.7    14.0      69
Learning funds/scholarships                4.6        15.5    20.1      77
Incremental recurrent costs                8.1        8.6    16.7      52
Unallocated                                0.7         1.7     2.4      71
Total                              29.8        69.5    99.3      70
would be as follows: FY1992/93 - 85%, FY1993/94 - 70%, FY1994/95 - 55%,
FY1995/96 - 40Z, FY1996/97 - 25%, FY1997/98 - 0%. The incremental recurrent
costs of the Basic Program (US$0.2 million) will be financed by the
Government.
C. Procurement
5.9       The breakdown of project expenditures by procurement category is
shown in Table 5.4.
(a) Civil Works. Past experience in Indonesia has shown that contracts
for civil works do not attract foreign bidders unless they are
grouped into very large packages. Since this is not feasible under
the proposed project because of the geographical dispersion of
project sites, contracts for civil works (US$4.4 million including
contingencies and taxes) would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB) following procedures which are acceptable
to the Bank.
(b)  Office Eauipment. Computers and Furniture.  Procurement of office
equipment, computer hardware and software, and furniture is expected
to cost about US$4.0 million in total. The nature of the items to
be procured is such that grouping into potential ICB packages valued
above US$200,000 cannot be done without risking a reduction in
overall competition. All contracts would be awarded on the basis of
LCB procedures which are acceptable to the Bank, except for bid
packages of less than US$50,000 for each package, up to an aggregate
limit of US$500,000, which could be purchased through prudent



- 36 -
Table 5.4: PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(US$ million)
Total cost
Procurement Method             including
Gategory oi expenditure          LCB           Other/a       NA      contingencies
Civil works                      4.4                                       4.4
(2.2)                                     (2.2)
Equipment and furniture          3.5             0.5                       4.0
(2.5)           (0.2)                     (2.7)
Vehicles                         2.0                                       2.0
(1.4)                                     (1.4)
Instructional materials,        14.0             1.2                      15.2
books and manuals            (10.0)           (0.5)                    (10.5)
Consultants' services,                          10.0                      10.0
including resource                           (10.0)                    (10.0)
persons, and fellowships
Local training                                             23.7           23.7
(16.4)         (16.4)
Tutor incentives                                            3.2            3.2
(2.2)          (2.2)
Learning funds and                                         20.1           20.1
scholarships                                            (15.5)         (15.5)
Incremental recurrent costs                                16.7           16.7
(8.6)          (8.6)
Total                      23.9            11.7       63.7           99.3
(16.1)          (10.7)    (42.7)          (69.5)
La Includes prudent shopping, selection of consultants following Bank
Guidelines and selection of fellows using government administrative
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Note: Figures in parenthesis indicate amounts to be financed by the Loan.



- 37 -
shopping on the basis of a minimum of three competitive price
quotations.
(c) Vehicles. About 600 motorcycles or small motorboats and 41 vans
would be purchased under the project for use in field supervision,
principally at the subdistrict level (para. 3.38). Becau&e of the
need to ensure adequate maintenance services and spare parts,
procurement of vehicles would be handled by the provincial PIUs in
each of the 27 provinces (with the exception of five vans for the
central PMU). Individual vehicle contracts are not expected to
exceed US$200,000. In view of the dispersed location of the
procurement and the small size of individual contracts, vehicles,
which are expected to cost a total of about US$2.0 million, would be
procured using LCB procedures. LCB procedures are acceptable to the
Bank provided that suppliers of foreign vehicles are allowed to bid
on the contracts and are provided with the necessary import licenses
in a timely manner to comply with the delivery requirements
indicated in the bidding documents, if their bids are successful.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government would
notify potential suppliers of foreign vehicles of this measure in
the General Procurement Notice, the specific advertisements for each
bid action and each set of bidding documents, and would provide the
import licenses in a timely manner.
(d)  Specialist Services.  Consultants would be selected in accordance
with Bank Guidelines. Local resource persons would be contracted
through NGOs, who would be selected according to procedures
satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 9 and para. 3.22).
(e)  Teaching and Learning Materials. Books and Manuals.  Most teaching
and learning materials would be printed booklets, manuals and
guidelines produced locally, and are expected to cost about US$15.2
million equivalent in total. Printing services would be procured
following LCB procedures from private printing enterprises by each
provincial PIU and by the PMU at the national level. Books and
other instructional materials would be purchased through prudent
shopping on the basis of a minimum of three competitive price
quotations. Past experience under NFE I and II has shown that
delivery of the materials to subdistricts has been delayed due to a
lack of Government funding. Distribution would, therefore, be
included in the contracts for producing and purchasir.g of
teaching/learning materials and books in order to ensure prompt
delivery.
5.10      Procurement Review.  The following are the guidelines regarding
procurement review:
(a) Contracts valued over US$200,000 would be subject to prior review by
the Bank, whereas contracts under US$200,000 in value would be
subject to random post-review;



- 38 -
(b) All contracts for vehicles, overseas training and consultants,
(except for the NGOs providing resource persons), would be subject
to prior review by the Bank; and
(c)  All long-term domestic fellowships would be subject to post-review
by the Bank.
Given the satisfactory performance by Dikmas in procurement under NFE I and
II, this amount of prior review would be sufficient to ensure compliance with
Baxdc guidelines.
D. Disbursements
5.11      The proposed loan of US$69.5 million equivalent would be disbursed
over a period of about six years. Disbursements are expected to be completed
by March 31, 1998, the Loan Closing Date. The disbursement schedule is based
on the implementation schedule and the disbursement profile for education
projects in Indonesia (Annex 19). It is somewhat faster than the present
profile, reflecting the timely implementation experience of NFE II.
Disbursements estimated for FY92 are based on the proposed initial deposit
into the project Special Account. Disbursements would be made as follows:
(a) Civil works                        50Z of total expenditures
(b) Equipment
(i) directly imported            100% of foreign expenditures
(ii) locally manufactured         100% of local (ex-factory) expenditures
(iii) locally procured             65% of local expenditures
(c) Furniture                          50% of total exnenditures
(d) Vehicles
(i) directly imported            100% of foreign expenditures
(ii) locally manufactured         100% of local (ex-factory) expenditures
(iii) locally procured             65S of local expenditures
(e) Instructional materials,           69% of total expenditures
books and materials
(f) Consultants' services,              100S of total expenditures
including resource persons,
and fellowships
(g) Local training                     69% of total expenditures
(h) Tutor incentives                   69% of total expenditures
(i) Learning funds and                  100% of total expenditures
scholarships (except
Basic Program component)



- 39 -
(j) Incremental recurrent               1992/93: 85% of total expenditures
costs (except Basic Program        1993/94: 70% of total expenditures
component)                       1994/95: 55% of total expenditures
1885/96: 40% of total expenditures
1996/97: 25% of total expenditures
1997/98: 0%
5.12      Disbursements from the loan for all contracts exceeding US$200,000
per contract, for all contracts for vehicles, and for technical assistance and
fellowships (excluding studies and resource person professional fees) would be
made against full documentation. All other disbursements would be made
against statements of expenditure for which relevant documents would be
retained by responsible agencies and made available for review as requested by
visiting Bank missions. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would
be established at Bank Indonesia to be used by Dikmas under the direction of
the Director General of the Budget, Ministry of Finance, following established
procedures. The Special Account would be used against eligible expenditures
for all categories. Upon Loan Effectiveness and confirmation of the
establishment of the Special Account, the Bank, on receipt of an application
from the Director General of the Budget, Ministry of Finance, would make an
initial deposit of US$2.5 million, which is based on the need for funds to
cover these expenditures on average for four months. Application for
replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted to the Bank quarterly
or when the balance is 50% of the initial deposit, or more frequently if
necessary, in amounts of not less than US$200,000 per application.
Applications for direct payment and special commitment would be a minimum of
US$100,000 per application.
E. Accounts and Audits
5.13      Dikmas would establish project accounts for all project expenditures
at both the provincial and national levels, to be mair.tained in accordance
with sound accounting practices. Accounts for the Statements of Expenditure
(SOE) and Special Account would be maintained separately. Each provincial PIU
would send financial statements for all project expenditures for each fiscal
year to the PMU.  The PMU would consolidate all provincial financial statement
with the national level financial statement and prepare a consolidated
financial report. The financial statements and consolidated report would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, including a separate
audit opinion on SOE expenditures.
5.14      Certified copies of the consolidated financial report on the project
for each fiscal year, together with the auditors' statement, would be
furnished to the Bank as soon as available, but not later than nine months
after the end of each government fiscal year. Dik-mn- would also monitor
progress in project implementation and report to the Bank each semester on
this progress (see also para. 4.18). Within six months after the completion
of disbursements, Dikmas would submit a project completion report to the Bank.



- 40 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.1       The project would improve the basic educational and family life
skills of 900,000 adults through provision of the basic Paket A literacy
training program. Most of these would be illiterates or primary school drop-
outs who have been bypassed by the formal education system. In view of the
close correlation between educational attainment and income in Indonesia
(para. 1.3), it can be assumed that these persons are likely to be below the
poverty line, and they would thus represent about 15Z of estimated poor
households. The Intensive Program, which would focus on the one-quarter
poorest sub-districts in Indonesia, would contribute to the Government's
poverty alleviation strategy and would reach another 15 of estimated poor
households. It would reinforce and consolidate the initial literacy and
numeracy training, often fragile, of about 600,000 beneficiaries, targeting
the poorest members of the community. Improved basic skills would allow poor
people to increase their productivity and incomes, improve their access to
public services, and participate more effectively in the overall growth
process. Women are expected to account for at least 60% of literacy learners,
and their participation would have important benefits in terms of improved
family health and nutrition, acceptance of family planning, encouragement of
their children's education and increased interest in community development.
6.2       The vocational training and income-generating components of the
Intensive Program would reach about 400,000 persons among the poverty target
group. Poverty in Indonesia is reflected in low incomes, rather than open
unemployment which is relatively limited. These components would increase the
income-earning opportunities of unskilled young people and improve the
productivity of workers in the informal sector, through training and technical
assistance in vocational and small business management skills. Women comprise
a rising proportion of the labor force, particularly in the informal sector,
and at least half of the beneficiaries of these programs are expected to be
female. While it is difficult to measure precisely the income-earning effects
of such programs, special studies under the project monitoring and evaluation
system will assess their impact and cost-effectiveness.
6.3       To be successful, nonformal education must constantly innovate.  The
project would strengthen the capacity of the Directorate of Community
Education to develop and test new programs to meet the changing needs of its
clientele and to improve its outreach to poverty target groups not adequately
served by other public and private programs. Improved access to lower
secondary education, key to higher levels of skill acquisition, would be
provided through the testing and implementation of the nonformal Paket B
program. The effectiveness and poverty alleviation impact of providing
scholarships for private training and apprenticeship would also be further                4
tested. New strategies for community education would be piloted through
"action research" programs and through working in the NGos in program
delivery. Finally, a new field outreach system for intensive delivery of
nonformal education and training to poverty areas would be implemented and
evaluated to determine its effectiveness and replicability.



- 41 -
Risks
6.4       The project implementing agency, Dikmas, has successfully
implemented two previous nonformal education projects in a timely and
efficient manner, demonstrating good management capacity, strong delivery
systems, flexibility in implementation, and institutionalized experience with
Bank procedures. However, several major innovations are being introduced in
this project which could pose risks. Annual joint implementation reviews will
allow assessment of implementation difficulties and provide the flexibility to
adjust project strategies as necessary. Ineffective targeting of project
services to poverty groups could undermine achievement of the project's
poverty alleviation objectives. This risk is reduced by agreement on
beneficiary selection criteria and procedures and by strengthening Dikmas'
capacity for monitoring and evaluation of project processes and outcomes.
6.5       The recurrent costs of Dikmas programs have been chronically
underfunded, particularly as regards staff and travel costs. Failure to
provide the necessary staff, particularly the additional contract field
workers for the IP areas, would impede the introduction of the innovative
programs, higher quality program content, improved targeting and more
intensive services, which are the core of the Intensive Program. This risk
has been reduced by approval of a nonformal education Staffing Action Plan, by
linking disbursements for the IP to adequate field-level staffing and by
including funds for the additional field staff in project costs.
Underfinancing of operating and maintenance costs of nonformal education
programs would jeopardize the effectiveness of project-financed investments in
learning programs, facilities and staff training. This risk is reduced by
loan financing of project-related incremental recurrent costs, including costs
of the above-mentioned field staff, on a declining basis.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       Agreement was reached during negotiations that:
(a) (i) IP subdistricts and beneficiaries; (ii) private training
institutions; (iii) apprenticeship enterprises; (iv) technical
assistance resource persons; and (v) civil works sites (paras. 3.7,
3.16, 3.18, 3.22, 3.36) would be selected according to criteria and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)  implementation of Paket B under the project would be based on a
revised program satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.13);
(c) scholarships would be provided to trainees at private training
institutions and apprentices at enterprises according to model
contracts satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 3.16, 3.18);
(d) learning plans for Magang apprentices and KU groups would be
developed according to formats satisfactory to the Bank (paras.
3.18, 3.22);



- 42 -
(e) inservice staff training (including the intensive training program),
would be based on a Master Training Plan satisfactory to the Bank,
which would be reviewed jointly by the Borrower and the Bank by
October 31, 1992 and updated annually thereafter (para. 3.28);
(f) the necessary authorizations for establishment of new SKBs would be
obtained prior to completion of construction (para. 3.36);
(g) project-financed equipment and vehicles would be allocated on the
basis of a plan satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.37);
(h) a revised system for SPEM with a baseline survey, monitoring
indicators and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, would be put
into place by April 1, 1993 (para. 3.39);
(i) the NPE Staffing Action Plan would be implemented, including the
appointment of at least 12 suitably qualified and experienced
additional staff for the PMU by June 1, 1992 (para. 4.12);
(j) proposed project implementation plans and budgets, based on project
performance, would be prepared annually by October 31 of each year,
beginning in 1992, and reviewed jointly by the Borrower and the Bank
(para. 4.19);
(k) potential suppliers of foreign vehicles would be notified that they
would be allowed to bid on project-financed vehicle contracts and
provided with the necessary import licenses, and the import licenses
would be made available in a timely manner [para. 5.9 (c)].
7.2       The following would be a Condition of Disbursement for key
expenditures in IP subdistricts:
(a) the IP would not be implemented in any subdistrict unless it has
been provided with a penilik and the additional field-workers have
been recruited, trained and deployed to the subdistrict (para.
4.13).
Recommendation
7.3       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$69.5 million
equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia for a term of 20 years, _lcluding a
grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



TKMI NFOR4AL 6XJCATION PRJB:T
Nonform l Education Prorams Dur i no Room I ita IV
Paket A Prooras
Supp I eeen-
a ry
Itlite-                                         Paket A      Paket A     Paket A      Paket A-20    Paket A                          Paket A      learnin
racy       No. Of       Paket A    Paket A     learners    learners    lebrners       graduates      reten-              Trained    booklets    materials
rates      illite-      learners   learners   cow leted    completed    completed      priasry       tion    Paket A    tutors    produced      produced
Province              (I)         rates       enrolled     Al-5        AS-10      A11-20       A21-100    equiva'-ncy     rates    tutors       (S)       ('000)       ('000)
_________________________----- Percent ---------------------------------
TOTAL                19.1      22,956,731    8,666.861     23.7        15.5         16.0        35.8          27.8        87.8      272,316     48.4      61.643       15.123
Ae-h                 12.8         269,379      210,938     34.3        16.6        16.6         27.2           1.6        90.5        6,400     66.7       1,825          282
N. Su_tra             8.6         569,911      350.258     33.6        19.0        13.8         28.0           2.4        91.2       11,860     47.4       3,109          968
W. Suetra            11.0         290,810      164.170     24.4        11.8         9.6         29.8          10.7        70.5        5,000     6B.5       1,450          482
Riau                 12.8         225.886      15.669     30.8        14.9        17.6         28.4          24.9        84.6        4.530     44.7        1.570         212
Jambi                11.5         139,049      151,008     40.2        15.0        15.3         21.8          11.0        86.8        4,470    41.6          745          200
S. Su_tra            10.4         390.154     224,291      15.2         5.3         7.4         43.2           7.1        66.2        7,460    37.4        2,450          394
Bengkulu             13.4          87,919      115.976     43.7        10.3         9.5         10.8           6.8        67.2        3,560     55.8       1.308          200
Lapung               13.4         549,256     247,795      16.4         9.6        26.4         43.0           5.9        89.5        7,740    38.4        3.400          594
OKI Jakarta           5.9         350,214      196,552     14.9        16.3        11.0         38.7           2.5        78.1        6.320    43.9        1.600          971
W. Java              15.3       3,422.825   1.500.251      22.4        19.2        19.8         33.6           7.2        93.6       52,300    46.7        7,400        1.6688
C. Java              22.1       4,464,123    1.043.889      5.0         8.3         8.0         66.7          90.7        85.8       35,060    39.4        5.000        1,649
Yogyakerta           24.1         562,546      173,070     26.4        15.2        13.2         29.0          16.0        78.0        5,280    42.6        2,110          900
E. Java              26.5       6,374,008    1,780,661     20.4        20.7        21.2         35.3          16.0        96.3       45,900    53.5        7,106        1.850
Bali                 28.8         593.190      181,662     19.3        12.5         9.2         31.8           6.6        67.2        6,100    45.4        2,151          494
W. Muo Tong.         34.5         716.968      212.221     27.4        16.9         18.5        29.0           1.3        88.3        7,460    50.6        2.498          394
E. Naua Teng.        26.0         562,552      165.791     20.1        18.9        20.2         36.2          14.0        90.9        5,160    50.0        2,508          394
E. Timor             66.0         298,647     239,913      57 6         9.2        11.8         14.1          0.3         87.1        7,360    38.6        1.465          200
W. K>liuantan        25.8         506,500     202.258      17.1        11.1        18.3         45.7           1.1        88.8        6,310    50.8        2,200          494
C. Kalimanten        11.6          89,124      82,263      37.5        16.9        16.7         25.8           5.8        93.9        2,900    68.6          709          200
S. Kaliontan         14.1         234,922     119,660      13.5         5.4         6.9         42.0          0.3         61.3        3,910    51.7        1,850          394
E. Ktlisntan         13.3         142,528     123,365      42.3        13.5        13.4         21.8          2.6         83.8        4,500    53.8        1.297          200
N. Sulawesi           4.9          84,126     165,300      34.5        16.5        17.8         14.1         71.0         78.6        5,920    44.4        1,283          294
C. Sulawesi          13.2         139,324     135,515      51.3         9.8         9.2         13.9          2.8         76.9        4,620    51.7          825          200
S. Sulawesi          26.8       1,288,313     357.977      28.9        15.6        11.6         31.0          6.3         83.0       10,320    53.3        1.770          83
S.E. Sulaweoi        24.4         183,480      105.733     41.5        14.8        14.6         23.4          4.0         90.4        3,480    64.9        1,036          200
Maluku                8.9          98.313      126,556     47.0        17.3        17.2         15.8          4.6         96.1        4,576    60.8        1,625          200
Irian Jays           35.2        322,661      131,120      23.4        15.3        20.0         33.1          9.8         88.6       3,820    51.8         1.353          200
Sources: Data of Dikas Program in Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, Dikas, 1Q90; 1985 Intercensal Population Survey, BPS, 1987.
tTs



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Beneficiary Charocteristics. Second Nonformal Education Proiect
Sample Study              Paket A  KU Biasa/a  Diklusemas  KU Induk/b   Magang
Data
Z of Total Sample         Learner    Member       Trainee   Member    Apprentice
Women                        65         60           70        40          41
Illiterates                  78          4           0          2           2
Primary school drop-
outs/Paket A grads.        22         21           0          5          19
Complete prim. school         0         30           2         38          41
Under 25 years              N.A         71           48/h      78          43
Unemployed or irregula-
income before program    N.A          27          65         21          36
Below poverty line           931c       50/d        48/e       41/d        42/e
Higher income group           0/f       27Lg         13/f      36L/        25Lg
Do not own house
(self or family)          N.A         14         N.A         24         30
Landless                    N.A         16         N.A         26          30
N.A - Not Available.
La financing of Rp 200,000 per group
/b financing of Rp 2 millicn per group
Le Under Rp 60,000/mo.
Ld Under Rp 75,000/mo.
Le Under Rp 50,000/mo.
/f Over Rp 80,000/mo.
L& Over Rp 150,000/mo.
Lh Under 30 years
Sources:  "Data of Dikmas Program in Fourth Five-Year Development Plan
(Repelita IV, 1984/85-1988/89) Dikmasn, 1990; "Case Study Report:
Socioeconomic Characteristics of Package A Learners and Tutors,"
Dikmas, 1990; "Final Report on the Result of Socioeconomic Charac-
teristics and Impact of Kejar Usaha Induk Diklusemas," School of
Economy Sari Bhakti, 1990. "Study on Socioeconomic Characteristics
and Impact of Kejar Usaha/Magang," Lembaga Penditian, Pendidikan dan
Penerangan Economi dan Social (LP3ES), 1991.



-45 -
ANNX 3
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
NFE Staff and Vacancies. by Location /a
Existing Staff                                                  Staff Vacancies
Sub-                                                                 Sub-
Prov.  SKB  District  district  Total         Province        Prov.  SKB  BPKB  District  district  Total
34    133       30         61       258   Aceh                  0    40       0     31          78        149
44    124       51         169      388   N. Sumatra            0   103    40       20          40        203
37    136       39         90       302   W. Sumatra            0   152       0     24          12        188
13     71      117         69       270   Riau                 17   100      0      36           9        162
26     92       18         39        175   Jambi                4    32       0     11           0         47
25     70       30         80       205   S. Sumatra            0    95    50       13          16        174
16     55       12         26       109   Bengkulu             14    15      0       5           0         34
31    100       12         61       204   Lampung               0    16       0      0          16         32
74     701b    20          30       194   DKI, Jakarta          0      7    10       0           0         17
34    268/b    96         441       839   W. Java               0   119    20         2         12        153
57    218      128        457       860   C. Java               0   139    50        0          46        235
40     88       20         62       210   Yogyakarta            0    51       0     12          11         74
57    272      175        529    1,033   E. Java                0   131    50       78         50         309
34    150       24         49       257   Bali                  0    61       0      0           2         63
30    115       18         50       213   W. Nusa Tenggara   0    55          0     14           9         78
33    160       30         92       315   E. Nusa Tenggara   0   122    50          12           6        190
18      9        0         22        49   E. Timor             16    33      0      78         39         166
33     93       21         49        196   W. K.alimantan       0    73       0      0          59        132
17     47       16         53       133   C. Kalimantan        12    37      0       6         29         84
30    117       30         75       252   S. Kalimantan         0   114    40       25          34        213
22     41       18         36       117   E. Kalimantan         8    58      0      12         35         113
30    108        0         81       219   N. Sulavesi           0    74       0      0           2         76
24     51       12         62       149   C. Sulawesl           6    24       0      0           0         30
68    426       69        168       731   S. Sulawesi           0    44    40       12           9        105
18     78       i2         43       151   S.E. Sulawesi        12    20      0      11         21         64
23     96       15         44       178   Haluku               11    57      0       4          12         84
20     50      267         34       371   Irian Jaya           10    32      0       8         83         133
888  3.238   1.280       2.972    8.378                        110 1.804   350    414          630      3.308
a  Does not include central level HQ.
Lb  Includes BPEB staff.



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIR
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Lessons of Experience From Bank-Financed Proiects in Education
and Training in Indonesia
Background
1.        Since the Bank Group's first project with the MOEC in 1970, sixteen
projects for a total of about US$1,108 million have been approved to date in
the education sector in Indonesia. Nine projects have been completed. In
addition to the projects with MOEC, the Bank has supported training in
specialist and professional fields through ten free-standing projects for a
total of about US$700 million in several other Ministries (see Table 4.1 for
list of the Bank Group-financed education and training projects). Over this
period, Bank strategy evolved from an initial emphasis on assistance to
support train:ng programs designed to alleviate the critical shortage of
technical personnel to an increasing emphasis on quality issues, and then to a
wider sectoral emphasis on investment programs and policy reforms. The
Education Sector Survey 1/ contributed a framework to formulate a coherent
lending strategy for the Bank and to initiate an effective policy dialogue
with the Government. Subsequent subsector reports have helped the Bank move
to sector lending and deepen the relevant policy dialogues. Although the
evolution of education lending to Indonesia has to a large extent mirrored the
evolution of Bank-wide policies, it has also on several occasions been at the
cutting-edge, including, for example, the first free-standing textbook and
nonformal education projects assisted by the Bank.
2.        During the 1970s and early 1980s, when the GOI was undertaking an
ambitious program of expanding enrollments in primary and secondary education,
Bank strategy was to direct much of its assistance to meeting many of the most
critical middle and higher-level skills needed by the economy--this effort
included a series of projects designed ta build the capacity to produce
teachers, agricultural technicians and non-governmental technicians in a range
of engineering and commercials fields (in a new system of polytechnics). The
rationale for this focus was that Bank resources could be used most
effectively at higher levels of the education system, while the construction
of primary and secondary schools was financed largely from domestic resources.
The first Nonformal Education Project (Loan 1486-IND), approved in 1977, was
an exception to this focus, reflecting the Government's concern with high
levels of adult illiteracy.
3.        In the mid-1980s, Bank attention shifted increasingly to sector and
sub-sector management issues and to quality improvement. This shift was
particularly marked in higher education, beginning with the First University
Development Project (Loan 1904-IND). Initially the emphasis was still mainly
1/   Indonesia:  Education Sector Survey, Report No. 4439-IND, 1975.



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
on improving selected institutions but by the mid-1980s the strategy again
shifted to an emphasis on broader sub-sectoral policies, culminating in the
First Secondary Education and Management Training Project and First Higher
Education Development Project (Loans 2472-IND and 2944-IND). The main reasons
for the change in approach were the need to address: (a) overall resource
mobilization issues, particularly the inadequate funding for O&M, resulting
from the oil shock of the mid-1980s; (b) serious implementation problems
through an increased focus on sector management and implementation monitoring;
and (c) sector-wide institutional and quality issues identified by Bank sector
work.
Lessons of Exnerience
4.        One of the features of projects in the education sector as reflected
in Project Completion Reports (PCRs), Project Performance Audit Reports
(PPARs) and an Impact Evaluation Report (see Table 4.1 for a list of PCRs and
PPARs), is that many of the lessons of experience have been incorporated into
succeeding project designs.  Much of it has been project specific, for
example, institutional issues such as to: (a) avoid creating separate Project
Implementation Units (PITIs); (b) ensure the early appointment and continuity
of key staff to PIUs; (c) ensure adequate coordination/communication among
implementing agencies; and (d) provide pre-departure language training for
overseas fellows. Projects have also been structured to take into account
past experience. For example, whereas the first textbook and nonformal
education projects had focused on quantitative expansion, the focus of the
follow-up projects was on qualitative improvements.
5.        The following discussion deals with some of the broader themes that
have emerged as lessons of experience from both completed and ongoing
projects. In many instances, the latter are more relevant, given the
substantial changes in project focus and design that have occurred over the
past two decades.  Some of these themes have also been reflected in a
comprehensive OED report on Bank-supported education and training
projects.2/
6.        Policy Dialogue.  The Bank began to enhance its policy dialogue in
the mid 1970s with the first education sector survey. In the 1980s more in-
depth sector work on secondary education 3/ and higher education 4/ helped
shift Bank strategy towards a sector approach as the studies provided the
underpinning for policy dialogue and reforms. This has now led to coherent
subsectoral policy development in these two subsectors. The major issues--
necessary improvements in quality, efficiency, equity and financing--are
2/   Indonesian Education and the World Bank:  An Assessment of Two Decades of
Lending, Report No. 9752, June 1991.
3/   General Secondary Education in Indonesia:  Issues and Programs of Action,
Report No. 4954-IND, 1984.
4/   "Final Status Report on the Higher Education Sector", (mimeo), MOEC,
1986.



- 48 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
clearly outlined in guidelines, implemented through agreed Action Programs
and, in the higher education subsector, supported by the Bank through a time-
slice of the expenditure program. As this approach has proved successful in
terms of policy formulation and implementation, it is expected that it will be
continued in future operations. With regard to the primary subsector, the
policy dialogue began after discussions on the Basic Education Study.5/ A
Primary Education and Quality Improvement Project is now under preparation
which would assist in formulating comprehensive subsectoral policies for
primary education. Policies regarding vocational and technical training and
linkages to the labor market were examined in the Employment and Training
Study,6/ which are expected to be implemented in a follow-up project.
7.        Experience in the sector has also indicated that policy improvements
are necessarily difficult to implement and require a long time-frame. The
most successful reforms have been in the higher education sector, but this has
taken over a decade to achieve and is far from complete. The experience also
indicates that Bank operations should be phased and realistic in the design of
policy reforms.
8.        Private Sector.  The Bank's involvement in the past two decades has
been overwhelmingly with the public sector despite the massive expansion of
private sector education and training. As quality improvements are the GOI's
overriding policy concern, public support for private education is, and will
become, increasingly important in the future, particularly as much of the
future expansion in enrollments is to be absorbed by the private sector. The
Bank has now recognized the importance of influencing and directing GOI
policies towards private institutions. Key policies, inter alis, are for
public support based on criteria related to need and quality, and an effective
system of accreditation. The support for private vocational training
institutions (Diklusemas) begun under the Second Nonformal Education Project
(Loan 2355-IND--NFE II) and expanded under the proposed project, would
contribute to this policy dialogue.
9.        Quality Impact.  The quantitative or physical targets of nearly all
the projects have been attained and in most cases exceeded. However, the
theme emphasized in many PCRs and PPARs is that a systematic assessment of a
project's impact on educational quality has not been done in most projects.
Building on this experience, more recent projects have made a better effort to
make a systematic assessment of the project's impact on educational quality.
NFE II established a monitoring and evaluation system (SPEM--see para. 1.28)
with a set of indicators which have provided good quantitative data. The
proposed project would strengthen this system so that it can assess
qualitative project performance.
10.       Institutional Development.  MOEC is the largest Ministry in the GOI
in terms of staff, budget, and administrative infrastructure. Management of
5/ Indonesia: Basic Education Study, Report No. 7841-IND, 1989.
6/   Indonesia imployment and Training:  Foundations for Industrialization in
the 1990s, op. cit.



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
education programs in the context of such a large ministry is intrinsically
complex. Fragmentation of administration in MOEC has also made it difficult
to ensure coherence, consistency and coordination among individual programs.
Thus, institutional development has only been partially successful, despite
the attempts in most prc-jects to strengthen the management and administration
of educational programs. This has been recognized in PCRs and PPARs. Based
on this experience, the Bank has adopted, under several recent projects, a
coordinated approach to institutional development by supporting integrated
management training programs and systems development. While individual
projects will continue strengthening resprctive project management units and
Directorates-General, this will be achieved within the framework of the
assistance being developed for MOEC as a whole.
11.       The more intractable institutional issue leading to poor quality is
the problem of low teachers' salaries and the lack of incentives, which has
led to "multi-jobbing", and also the lack of professional development for
teachers. This has not been resolved in the last two decades. Ad hoc
attempts to prov'de incentives have been tried under individual projects but
have not proven sustainable. Recent initiatives to improve the quality of the
teaching force includes the establishment of functional positions, but
experience suggests there will be a continuing need to deal with this problem
in future projects. Career development problems are also found among NFE
staff, although here also it is hoped that the establishment of functional
positions for BPKB and SKB staff will improve the situation. Reliance on
"volunteers" as NFE tutors has also hampered efforts to improve the quality of
NFE programs. This would be addressed to a limited degree in the proposed
project by providing small incentives to tutors.
12.       Staff Training.  Staff development through pre-service and in-
service training programs and fellowship programs has been a central element
in many projects in the education sector. However, PPARs, particularly on the
initial projects, have pointed out that progress or development in staff
training beyond the disbursement of funds and the number of staff-months of
funding used has been poor. Subsequent career patterns and the impact of
trained personnel on departments and faculties have also not been included as
part of the project design. In overseas fellowships, particularly in the
earlier projects, the Bank had given inadequate attention to the selection,
administration, and eventual functions of returnees. The evidence available
indicates that problems of re-entry and dispersion of those trained under the
projects were common. Remedial measures for most of the above have now been
incorporated in more recent projects, particularly in the first Science and
Technology Training Project (Loan 2599-IND). But no project in MOEC has so
far provided for post-project evaluation of the impact of staff training
except for a limited evaluation of the fellowship component of the Second
Teacher Training Project (Loan 2101-IND). The preparation and updating of a
Master Training Plan for NFE staff would attempt to measure training impact
under the proposed project.
13.       Technical Assistance (TA) and Studies.  These two areas have not
been systematically analyzed in all PCRs and PPARs. Technical assistance has
not only been used for equipment procurement, civil works and specialist
services, but also for administering overseas fellowship programs. The



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
experience with TA seems to be positive in most projects, with the exception
of the overseas fellowship management components of the university development
projects. The experience with studies, largely from ongoing projects, has
been disappointing. Studies, particularly those done by local consultants,
have lacked sufficient analysis to be of value. Insufficient attention has
been paid to the adequacy of the terms of reference, selection of consultants,
and supervision and follow-up of work done. Recommendations to address these
issues have been included in a recently completed Bank staff study on TA in
Indonesia.
14.       Decentralization.  One of the more positive achievements in the
sector is that, although never explicitly stated as an objective, projects in
both the nonformal and higher education subsectors have contributed to the
decentralization of activities. In nonformal education, the PPAR for the
first project comments favorably that annual programming and budgeting,
training and implementation had already been decentralized to the provincial
and district levels thereby bringing program design closer to the learning
locale. In higher education, university management has been decentralized
with resultant financial autonomy. Support for decentralization of activities
in the primary and secondary subsectors is the logical sequence, as MOEC is
over-centralized. The process has already begun in secondary education and
will be included under the proposed project for the primary subsector. The
lessons of experience from these projects is that these programs which are
complex, with dispersed activities and a heavy bias on software components,
demand more intensive field superviQton during implementation and operation
and possibly with inputs and assistance different from the regular reviews
normally carried out by the Bank.
15.       Financing.  Education at all levels suffers from inadequate
recurrent funds. Budget cuts have affected the implementation of ongoing
pro,ects and caused problems with the sustainability of completed projects.
Both the Bank and GOI now see the main solution as the need for reduced
reliance on central budgets and increased cost recovery. Several recent
projects have included incremental recurrent costs in total project costs, and
the proposed project would finance them under the Bank loan, on a declining
basis.
16.       Eouit-  Issues.  There is a new awareness of the need to address
equity issues directly in Bank-financed projects. Studies are being
incorporated in projects to find better instruments for targeting public
subsidies to schools in the poorest areas, and the provision of scholarships
and loans for needy students. The poverty focus of the proposed project also
supports these concerns.  Equitable access to project facilities and services
by females, rural students and beneficiaries from the Outer Islands has been
targeted in the Second Secondary Education Project, the Professional Human
Resource Development Project and the proposed Primary Education and Quality
Improvement Project. The proposed project would also make a special effort to
target women beneficiaries.
17.       Sustainability and Retlicabilitv.  On the basis of the
sustainability indicators developed by the Bank's Operations Evaluation
Department (inputs, outputs, efficiency, quality and spinoff effects), it vas



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
concluded that the evaluation of sustainability in education projects is more
difficult than in other sectors, where easily identifiable outcome measures
are possible. An evaluation of the First and Second Education Projects 7/
based on these indicators by the Operations Evaluation Department concluded
that the projects have demonstrated a moderate level of sustainability.
18.       Experiences on replicability or whether improvements in a specific
project can be used to benefit other projects or the rest of the subsector has
been varied. Innovations like the centralized workshops, and the cascade
method of teaching have been replicable and used in other projects and other
sectors. However, the Learning Resource Centers under the first teacher
training project were under-utilized and not continued in the next project.
The above-mentioned study shows the importance of clearly identifying
indicators of sustainability in the project design and the need to improve
both Government and Bank efforts to monitor project performance against the
appropriate indicators. The proposed project includes measures for such
performance monitoring.
7/   Impact Evaluation Report:  Indonesia, Sustainability of the First and
Second Education Projects, Report No. 7767, 1989.



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 4.1: BANK GROUP-FINANCED EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECTS
Loan/                                                                                    Amount
Credit      Fiscal                                                                (less cancellations)
Number      Year         Purpose                          Agency                    Bank           IDA
--- (US$ million) --
219        1970        First Education                  MOEC/a                                   4.60
387        1973        Third Education                  MOEC                                    13.50
1237        1976        Fourth Education                 MOEC                        37.00
1433        1977        First Teacher Trn.               MOEC                        19.00
1486        1978        Nonformal Education              MOEC                        15.00
869        1979        Polytechnic                      MOEC                                    49.00
1904        1981        First Univ. Dev.                 MOEC                        45.00
2101        1982        Second Teacher Trn.              MOEC                        79.59
2102        1982        Second Textbook                  MOEC                        25.00
2290         1983       Second Polytechnic               MOEC                       107.40
2355        1984        Second Nonformal Education       MOEC                        43.00
2472        1985        First Secondary Educ. &          MOEC                        78.00
M-gmt. Trn.
2547        1985        Second Univ. Dev.                MOEC                       147.00
2944        1988        Higher Educ. Dev.                MOEC                       140.30
3158        1990        Second Secondary                 MOEC                       154.20
3311         1991       Second Higher Educ.              MOEC                       150.00
MOEC Subtotal                               1.040.49       67.10
288        1972        Second Education                 MOA/b                                    6.30
1692        1979        Second Ag. Training              MOA                         42.00
2258         1983       MPCS/Construction                MPWLc                       30.00
2341        1984        Third Ag. Training               MOA                         63.30
2599        1985        Science & Tech. Trn.             MORT/d                      93.00
2705        1986        Manpower Dev. & Trn.             MOM/e                       58.10
2940         1988       Accountancy Dev.                 MOF/f & MOEC               113.00
2992        1989        Tree Crop Human Resource         MOA                         18.40
Dev.
3112        1990        Public Works Inst. Dev.          MPW                         36.10
& Trn.
3134        1990        Prof. Human Resource Dev.        BAPPENAS, BPPTLa           117.50
GRAND TOTAL                               1.611.89      73.40
La  MOEC - Ministry of Education and Culture
/b  MOA  - Ministry of Agriculture
MPW  - Ministry of Public Works
d MORT - Ministry of Research and Technology
E  MOM  - Ministry of Manpower
If  HOP  - Ministry of Finance
La  BPPT - Agenye for Assessment and Application of Technology.



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8
Table 4.2: LIST OF COMPLETION AND PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORTS
1.   Project Completion Report:  Indonesia - First Education Project (Credit 219-IND), July 1977.
Project Performance Audit Report: Indonesia - First Education Project (Credit 219-IND),
Report No. 2998, June 1980.
2.   Project Completion Report:  Indonesia - Second Education Project (Credit 288-IND), July
1978.
Project Performance Audit Report: Indonesia - Second Education Project (Credit 288-IND),
Report No. 3058, June 1980.
3.   Impact Evaluation Report:  Indonesia - Sustainability of the First and Second Education
Projects (Credits 219-IND and 288-IND), Report No. 7767, May 1989.
4.   Project Completion Report:  Indonesia - Third Education Project (Credit 387-IND), Report No.
4562, June 1983.
5.   Project Completion Report:  Indonesia - Fourth Education Project (Loan 1237-IND), May 1985.
Project Performance Audit Report: Indonesia - Fourth Education Project (Loan 1237-IND),
Report No. 6312, June 1986.
6.   Project Completion Report:  Indonesia - First Teacher Training Project (Loan 1433-IND),
March 1985.
Project Performance Audit Report; Indonesia - Teacher Training Project (Loan 1433-IND),
Report No. 6315, June 1986.
7.   Project Completion Report:  Indonesia - Nonformal Education Project (Loan 1486-IND), March
1985.
Project Performance Audit Report: Indonesia - Nonformal Education Project (Loan 1486-IND),
Report No. 6304, June 1986.
8.   Project Completion Report:  Indonesia - Second Agricultural Training Project (Loan 1692-
IND), September 1986.
Project Performance Audit Report: Indonesia - Second Agricultural Training Project (Loan
1692-IND), Report No. 7051, December 1987.
9.   Project Completion Report:  Indonesia - Polytechnic Project (Credit 869-IND), October 1987.
Project Performance Audit Report:  Indonesia - Polytechnic Project (Credit 869-IND), Report
No. 7847, June 1989.
10. Project Completion Report: Indonesia - First University Development Project (Loan 1904-
IND), Report No. 8421, March 1990.
Project Performance Audit Report: Indonesia - First University Development Project (Loan
1904-IND), Report No. 9247, December 1990.
11. Project Completion Report: Indonesia - Second Textbook Project (Loan 2102-IND), Report No.
9107, November 1990.
12.  Indonesian Education and the World Bank:  An Assessment of Two Dec.ades of Lending, Report
No. 9752, June 1991.
13. Project Completion Report: Indonesia - Public Works Manpower Development Project (Loan
2258-IND), Report No. 9176, December 1990.
14. Project Completion Report: Indonesia - Second Nonformal Education Project (Loan 2355-IND),
August 1991.
NDs   Some Project Completion Reports do not have Report Numbers.  The dates are when they have
been submitted to OED.



- 54 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONE3IA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Selection Criteria and Procedures for Intensive Proaram
Subdistricts and Beneficiaries
A. CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES FOR SELECTING IP SUBDISTRICTS
1.        Proiect Area
The project covers all 27 provinces involving 300 districts/
municipalities and 1,000 subdistricts.
2.        Selection Criteria
(a) Areas with the most illiterate population;
(b) Areas with the most school dropouts;
(c) Area in the integrated area development program (PKT).
3.        Strategy on Area Selection
(a) First Stage (1992/93)
(i) District/municipality   : all selected (300)
(ii) Subdistrict              s one subdistrict from each of the 300
district/municipality (300
subdistricts)
(b) Second Stage (1993/94)
(1) District/municipality   : 164 districts/municipalities to be
selected as intensive areas with the
following stipulation:
(a) 60% of them from outside Java (122
districts/municipalities)
(b) 40% in Java (42 districts/
municipalities)
(ii) Subdistrict              : 450 subdistricts from the above
districts with the following
stipulation:
(a" 3 subdistricts of each of 122
district/municipalities outside
Java (366 subdistricts);
(b) 2 subdistricts each of the 42
districts/municipalities in Java
(84 subdistricts).



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
(c) Third Stage (1994/95)
(i) District/municipality   : from the second stage districts/
municipalities, 89 of them are
reselected with the following
stipulation:
(a) For outside Java, 601 of the 122
reselected (72 districts/
municipalities)
(b) For Java, 402 of the 42 are
reseleted (17 districts/
municipalities)
(ii) Subdistricts             t 250 subdistricts from the above
districts, with the following
stipulation:
(a) For outside Java, 3 subdistricts
will be selected from each of the
72 districts/municipalities (216
subdistricts);
(b) For Java, 2 subdistricts will be
selected from each of the 17
districts/municipalities (34
subdistricts).
4.        Procedures for Proiect Area Selection
(a)  Data Collection
(i) National Level
Dikmas Directorate makes inventory, selects and processes data
obtained from the provinces;
(ii) Provincial Level
Dikmas Division makes recapitulation of all data obtained from
districts/municipalities and sends them to Dikmas Directorate;
(iii)  District/municipality Level
Dikmas Section:
a.  Has meeting with Dikmas Supervisors on data collection;
b.  Makes recapitulation and tabulation of data obtained from
Dikmas Supervisors;
c.  Sends data direct to Dikmas Directorate (Jakarta) with copy
to the provincial office (Dikmas Division).



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
(iv) Subdistrict Level
Dikmas Supervisor:
a. Gathers data on number of people, number of illiterates and
school dropouts per village
b. Sends recapitulation data to district/municipality office
(Dikmas Section).
(b) Data Verification
Data are considered valid when they are ;signed by relevant
authority (Head of District/Municipality MOEC, Local BAPPEDA and
Subdistrict MOEC office.
B. CRITERIA FOR SELECTING IP BENEFICIARIES
For Intensive Paket A
Age 7-44
Illiterate or primary school dropout
Has completed Paket A-10
For Paket B
Age 13-44
Completed primary school, Paket A or primary equivalent examination
Priority to Paket A graduates
For Diklusemas
Age 15-30
Unskilled
Pass course entry examination or selection criteria
From poor family (see below)
For Maaang
Age 15-30
Unskilled
Some aptitude for selected skill
From poor family (see below)
For Keiar Usaha
Age 15-44
Have some economic activities/small enterprise or basic skills
Do not have capital to enlarge or improve enterprise



- 57 7
ANNEX 5
Page 4
Poverty-Oriented Criteria for Recivients of Scholarships
(a)  Recipient or his/her family do not own substantial assets (land over
1/4 hectare, house plot over 20 m2)
(b)  Does not receive regular salary or rages
(c) Registered with "zakat", "banjar", fasting action committee, or
other local social service committees, who will certify the above
two criteria
(d) Special priority for Paket A learners/graduates, orphans, women
heads of household



- 58 -
ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Beneficiary Taraeta. Intensive Program
EO. OF SUDDISTRICTS          VILL/SU8D    GR/VILL    LNR/GR   1992/93    1993194       1994/95     1995/96     1996/97     TOTAL
PARRY A.
CYCLE 1               300       20           1          10      60.000    120,000                                            180,00
continuing learners                                                         60,000     180,000     120,000     360,000
CYCLE It              450       20           1          10                  90,000     180,000                             270,000
continuing learners                                                                     90,000     270,000     180,000     540.000
CYCLE UII             250       20           1          10                              50,000     100,000                 150,000
colttinulg learners                                                                                 50,000     150,000     200,000
SUSTOrAL LEARNERS                                            60,000    210,000      230,000     100,000           0    600,000
coutinuing learners                                             60,000    270,000      500,000     540,000     330,000   1,700,000
SUBTOTAL GROUPS                                              6,000      21,000      23,000      10,000           0      60,000
PARET B                    SKB.       GROUPISKB
CYCLE 1               300
CYCLE II              450      227           1          20                               4,540       4,540                   9,080
CYCLE 111             250      227           1          20                                                       4,540       4,540
150           1         20                                                        3,000       3,000
SUBTOTAL LERNRERS                                                                     4,540       4,540       7,540      16,620
SUBTOTAL GROUPS                                                                        227         227         377         831
&WAR USARA
CYCLE I               300       20           1           5      30,000      30,0 w0     30,000                              90,000
CYCLE 11              450       20           1           5                  45,000      45,000      45,000                 135,000
CYCLE III             250       20           1           5                              25,000      25,000      25,000      75,000
SUBTOTAL LEARNERS                                            30,000      75,000     100,000      70,000      25,000     300,000
SUBTOTAL GROUPS                                             6,000      15,000      20,000      14,000       5,000      60,000
H&GANG
CYCLE I               300       20           1           1       6,000       6,000       6,000                              16,000
CYCLI Ut              450       20           1           1                   9,000       9,000       9,000                  27,000
CYCLE UT1             250       20           1           1                               5,000       5,000       5,000      15,000
SUBTOTAL LEUIES                                               6,000      15,000      20,000      14,000       5,000      60,000
SUBTOTAL  nTERPRISS                                          1,200       3,000       4,000       2,800       1,000      12,000
CRS/SUBD                LNR/CRS
DIILUSEAS
CYCLE I               300        3                       3       2,700       2,700       2,700                               8,100
CYCLE Ut              450        3                      3                    4,050       4,050       4,050                  12.150
CYCLE 111             250        3                      3                                2,250       2,250       2,250       6,750
SUBTOTAL LEARNERS                                             2,700       6,750       9,000       6,300       2,250      27,000
SUBTOTAL COURSES                                               900       2,250       3,000       2,100         750       9,000
TOTAL LEARNERS                                                  98,700    306,750      363,540     194.840      39,790   1.003,620
TOrAL GROUPSICOURBES                                            14.100      41,250      50,227      29.127       7.127      141.831
EnPRISES



- 59 -
ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Paket B: Criteria for Assessment of Revised Program
(a) profile of present and projected learners, and learner selection
criteria, priorities and procedures, including size of group/class;
(b) curriculum objectives based upon researched competency levels and
assessed learner needs;
(c) methodology for selecting vocational activities and linking them to
the academic components;
(d) textbooks and other learning materials that have been determined
through testing to enable curriculum objectives to be met;
(e) roles of tutors, including number, size of group served
(tutor:student ratio), selection criteria and sources, time
requirements, training curriculum and proportion of tutors receiving
training, and incentive systems;
(f) role of SKB staff and an implementation model which would be
feasible in areas without SKBs;
(g) identified and costed needs for special facilities and equipment;
(h) tested model for implementing the vocational component, including
role and amount of learning funds;
(i) unit cost analysis of: (i) the different delivery systems tested
(e.g., implemented by SKB or by other organization); and (ii) in
different locations (e.g., urban or rural areas, in different
provinces, etc.);
(j) plans for continued monitoring and impact evaluation.



- 60 -                             ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Private Training Courses and ApDrenticeship Programs:
Selection Criteria and Scholarships
A.  Criteria for Selectinz Participating Institutions a*d Enterprises
1.        Diklusemas Training Courses:
Identified during baseline survey;
High graduate placement rates, as determined by field studies;
Possesses permit and uses curriculum/syllabus recognized by MOEC;
Prepares necessary learning plans and materials;
Working relationship with enterprises that employ their 3raduates;
Willing to help sponsored trainee find employment after graduation.
2.        Mafana Enterprises:
Identified during biaseline survey;
Willingness to develop and implement learning plan for apprentice;
Guarantees 3-6 months of employment to graduate apprentice;
Has experience with apprenticeship trainin ;
High growth sector--products or services ar- strongly demanded.
B. Methodoloav for Calculation of Scholarship Amounts
Diklusemas Scholarships
Sponsored trainees would receive a scholarship on a grant basis to
cover the tuition fees of the basic level training in the selected skill/
course. The average fee has been calculated at Rp 150,000 for budgeting
purposes, but actual fees for the selected course would be paid on behalf of
the traiaee.  An average amo.mnt of Rp 50,000 has also been budgeted to cover
the travelling expenses of the trainee to the course location during the
sponsored training. Again, actual costs would be paid. The contracts between
the provincial PIU and the training institutions would specify the skills,
level of training and fees involved.  The scholarsh!lp contract between the
training institution and the scholarship beneficiary, which would be approved
by Dikmas field staff, would indicate the above as well as the cost of travel.
Haaana Scholarships
Scholarships for apprentices have been calculated on the basis of
the following assumptions: (a) apprenticeships are expected to last an
average of three months; (b) entry-level monthly wages for completely
unskilled workers are estimated at Rp 30,000 or Rp 60,000 in rural and urban
areas, respectively; (c) employers in rural and urban areas would be expected
to pay the apprentices this amount or slightly less, as a "training wage";



- 61 -                             ANNEX 8
Page 2
(d) rural or urban enterprises would receive Rp 40,000 or Rp 80,000 per month,
respectively, to cover the training wages plus their training costs;
(e) three-quarters of the enterprises are expected to be located in rural
areas (Rp 120,000) and one-quarter in urban areas (Rp 240,000), so that the
average apprenticeship scholarship is budgeted at Rp 150,000, to be provided
on a grant basis.
An average of five apprentices per enterprise per year has been used
for budgeting purposes. In reality, a contract with a particular enterprise
to train a number of apprentices could be spread over two or three years, and
some enterprises who demonstrate an especially good capacity for training
could be used more than once. The provincial PIUs would sign contracts with
the participating enterprises, which would specify the number of apprentices
to be trained, the skills and learning plan for each apprentice and the amount
of each grant.



_ 62 -
ANNEX-9
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Criteria and Procedures for Contracting NGOs
to Provide Technical Resource Persons
1.        At the field level, NGOs and private groups would be needed to
select and manage resource persons (field level specialists) based on a
specific work program to perform the following functions:
(a) conduct community needs assessment (learning groups, individuals);
(b) act as community motivator and train community leaders, tutors,
peniliks and field workers in community development and leadership,
conduct information campaign, orientation on out-of-school education
programs available in the area;
(c) assist the penilik, field-level extension teams, village management
and facilitators to review the initial program prepared by the PIU
and in prepa:.fing their multi-year plan or program for the community;
(d) develop work program and provide specific assistance to learning
groups (Paket A, Paket B, Kejar Usaja, Magang), on training for
specific skills or in management of the group activities (business
management, community finance, arrangements for credit etc.);
(e) liaise with specific banking agencies or nonbanking financial
institutions and with other sectoral agencies regarding learning
group activities;
(f) monitor and evaluate learning group activities;
(g) develop and conduct action research or impact evaluation of specific
activities in the community or group of communities.
2.        Work Program.  Principally NGOs/private institutions will provide
resource persons (fie'ld specialists) which would be required at the
subdistrict level to assist the program beneficiaries. This may include but
is not limited to:
(a)  initial training of KU groups in small business management skills
(one week training per group);
(b) provide ad hoc technical advice to ongoing KU groups equivalent to
about four person-days per year;
(c) assist field extension teams and Magang enterprises in developing
apprentice learning plans for about two days equivalent per
enterprise;



- 63 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2
(d) monitoring and evaluation (both process and impact evaluation);
(e) participatory community development, motivation and leadership
training; and
(f) training of peniliks, field extension personnel and tutors on item
(d) and (e) above.
Criteria for Oualifving NGOs/Private GrouDs
3.        The criteria for qualifying the organization to provide the resource
persons would be:
(a) experience and work record in out-of-school education programs,
informal sector activities, community development, training
(including specific skills), monitoring and evaluation, number and
type of projects undertaken during the past 3-5 years;
(b) length of operation with at least five years of experience in the
field to ensure that the organization did not establish itself for
the purpose of the project or for the work being offered;
(c) regularity and number of staff available for work in the field
including proven skills in community development works and specific
skills in out-of-school education, vocational and business skills;
(d) availability of resources including personnel, associates, other
2acilities if possible;
(e) management capability in planning, programming, budgeting;
cooperation with sectoral agencies, local governments, and external
agencies; and supervising management and handling of funds for
business credit; and
(f) ability to: (i) prepare terms of reference, (ii) select, assign and
manage individual specialists for the work needed, and assist the
design and carrying out of specific educational and training
activities.
4.        The weighing for assessing the proposal would be as follows:
(a) general experience in the field assignment (0-20 points);
(b)  the adequacy of the proposed work plan and approach in responding to
the TOR (0-30 points);
(c)  the qualifications and competence of the personnel proposed for the
assignment (0-50 points).



- 64 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3
5.        Curriculum vitae of personnel in each discipline should be included.
These personnel will be rated in accordance with their:
(a) general qualifications (0-15 points);
(b) suitability for the assignment (0-25 points); and
(c) prior experience in similar types of assignment (0-15 points).
Experience and Skills Required for Resource Persons
6.        The work will require the following experience and skills in the
areas of:
(a) management of out-of-school education programs;
(b)  community development extension, organization and management of
communities;
(c) monitoring and evaluation;
(d) training in basic education programs, community development and
participation;
(e) skills training and business management for learning groups,
individual trainees;
(f) credit and banking operations; and
(g) development of teaching techniques, supplementary learning
materials, social marketing techniques.
Responsibilitv/Reportina
7.        For administration purposes the NGO or private agency selected will
report to the PIU and work with the penilik and extension team for their
specific work program. Each District Officer will assist the PIU in the
process. The NGO/private group will also coordinate their activities with the
regional and training centers (BPKBs and SKBs). For technical and substantive
guidance and NGOs/Private Groups and their resource persons will work with the
field extension teams and community working groups (SATGAS). The NGOs/Private
Groups will be based at the district level but with close contact with the
subdistrict team and villages they will be assisting.
8.        The resource persons will be asked to perform functions on a
periodic basis, it is important therefore that where possible the NGO/Private
group retain specialists who live closely to the subdistrict and villages they
will be assigned.



- 65 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4
Steps in Contractina NGOs/Private Groups
9.        The PIUs will be responsible for hiting the NGOs/Private Groups.
The PMU will provide general guidelines and would consult closely with the
relevant provincial PIUs. The district officer (Kasi Dikmas) will assist the
PIU in his jurisdiction. The PIUs will carry out the following steps:
(a) prepare a short list of (15-20) organizations from a long list;
(b) issue a request for proposal (letter invitation) to short listed
NGOs and private groups;
(c) evaluate proposal, based on criteria noted above;
(d) write or contract selected NGOs/Private Groups to negotiate a
contract. NGOs/Private Groups to bring financial proposal;
(e) negotiate contract and cost including specific time frame;
(f) NGO/Resource Persons to commence work as per agreement.



- 66 -
ANNEX 10
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Eligible Components for Higher Education Institutional Proposals
The proposals could cover:
(a) studies and workshops on curriculum development, teaching methods
and materials;
(b) purchase of reference materials and teaching equipment;
(c) development of on-campus income-generating programs for practical
activities;
(d) supplies, travel and subsistence costs for students, instructors and
relevant Dikmas staff for field activities (30 per institution per
year);
(e)  preparation of student handbooks; and
(f) semi-annual professional seminars.



- 67 -
ANNEX 11
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORI4AL EDUCATION PROJECT
The Master Training Plan and Intensive Training Program
Master Training Plan
The Master Training Plan for out-of-school education staff would
contain the following elements:
(a)  A matrix summarizing the training to take place, by year, type of
training and level, over the life of the project;
(b)  A plan for designing, implementing and evaluating each type of
training at each level;
(c)  A system for establishing and maintaining a staff development data
bank; and
(d)  A job/task analysis, defining competencies, skills and knowledge,
for each staff category.
Intensive Core Staff Training Program
The purpose of the intensive training for core Diklusepora staff is
to expose staff to the new ideas and experiences in out-of-school education
being developed and implemented throughout the world, particularly as regards
the changing demand for pc-.t-literacy and income-generating skills training,
and to allow exploration of the relevance of these other approaches to out-of-
school education needs in Indonesia.
This training would be tailor-made for the needs of the trainees,
who would be a group of about 25 core Dikmas and Diktentis staff.  Staff would
increase their technical knowledge as regards issues, strategies, program
concepts, methodologies and techniques in out-of-school education.
The training would be provided by an overseas institution
experienced in this kind of training in association with an Indonesian higher
education institution, and would follow a "sandwich" format, as has been used
for similar programs for MOEC staff. The program would include:
(a) preparatory training, including language training, in Indonesia;
(b) training overseas, including study visits to relevant programs outside of
Indonesia; (c) follow-up training in Indonesia; and (d) the provision of
reference materials to Dikmas and the BPKBs for subsequent use by Diklusepora
staff.



- 68 -
WP"SX 12
INDONESIA
TBIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Local Training
Level  Average Unit cost                             Staff Days
lb     Days   per day La  92/93    93/94           94/95    95/96    96/97    Total
(Rp'000)
PROGRAM TRAINING
Tutor Training (Basic A)    D        5         27      126,00C   105,000   84,000   63,000   42,000    420,000
Tutor Trainers (lat. A)       P     10         44        8,400      4,200    8,400    4,200           0      25,200
Tutor Training (Int. A)       D      8         22       48,000   168,000  184,000   80,000            0    480,000
Monitor Training (Paket B)  R        5          72           45         45         0        0         0          90
Tutor Training (Paket B)    P        7         44             0          0    4,767    4,767    6,300        15,834
National Trainers (KU)        N     14         74           308          0        0         0         0         308
Provincial Trainers (KU)    P       14         54        1,890          0    1,890          0         0       3,780
Staff/NGOs (KU)               D     10         35       30,000    45,000   25,000           0         0    100,000
STAFF TRAINING
Curriculum Dev. (IKIP)        N      7        119           140          0      140       140         0         420
PMU, PIU & BPKB Staff         N      7         95          731        731       731       731       731       3,655
Program Review & Planning   N        5         87          585        585       585       585       585      2,925
SPEM Staff                    N      7         94           378          0        0         0         0         378
TOT for Regional Trainers   N       10         77          630          0         0       315         0         945
TOT for Provincial Trainers R       10         57        2,646           0        0    1,323          0       3,969
Dikmas District Official    R        5         79          900        900       900       900       900       4,500
District Education Ch'.ef    R       3         96           360       360       360       360       360       1,800
Chief of SKB                  P.     7         65           967       967       967       967       967       4,835
Dikmas Section Staff          P      7         49        2,520      2,520    2,520    2,520    2,520         12,600
SKB Staff                     P      7         47        2,902      2,902    2,902    2,902    2,902         14,510
Penilik Basic Program         P      7         42       23,100      5,670   19,950    5,670    5,670        60,060
Penilik IP & Field Worker   P        9         37       30,324    31,836   25,074   18,774    6,762    112,770
Subdistrict Educ. Chief       P      3         54        4,320      4,320    4,320    4,320    4,320        21,600
Village Facilitator           D      3         46       18,000    27,000   15,000           0         0     60,000
PR1lATE COURSE (DIKLUSEMAS)
TOT for Course Manager        N      7         83          693          0       693         0       693      2,079
TOT for Course Instructor   N        7         83          693          0       693         0       693      2,079
TOT Exam. Writer & Examiner N       10         72          990          0       990         0       990      2,970
Course Manager Training       R      5         94        1,215      1,215    1,215    1,215    1,215         6,075
Course Instructor Training  R        5         94        1,215      1,215    1,215    1,215    1,215         6,075
Exam. Writer & Examiner       R      7         90        1,701      1,701    1,701    1,701    1,701         8,505
TOTAL                                              448.529   647.731  331.439  143.231   42.262  1.613,192
La Using base costs.
/b D - District
P - Provincial
R * Regional
N - National



- 69 -                                                 ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Administrative and Operational Functions of NFE
Administrative/              Training        Learning resources             Monitoring
L_____._____         Operational                                   & materials                & evaluation
D.G. NFE/     Policy guidance            Policy guidance      Policy guidance          Review and assessment
Youth &        Interagency coordina-    Coordination          Coordination             for policy decisions
; Sports        tion                                                                    Feedback
Allocation of funds,
*               personnel
Interagency   Coordination              Coordinate train-   Information exchange   Review and evaluate
; Coordina-     Develop sectoral pro-    ing programs           Provide materials       sectoral programs
tion          grams                      Information ex-
(POKJA)       Guidance to local         change
offices                   Provide training
material
B Balitbang     Guidance                  Conduct special       Provide resource        Technical assistance
Dikbud        Conduct research           training programs   materials                 Impact evaluation
IKIPs         Special studies                                 Technical assistance
others        Evaluation
Action research
National      Policy development        Manage training       Develop guidelines       Set up SPEM/MIS system
Dikss        Interagency coordina-    program for            Allocate responsibi-   Action research
(PMU)         tion                      national staff        lity for development   Monitoring & evalua-
Program development       Prepare master       of materials             tion
ii              National budgeting         training program    Approve materials         Annual review
:               Implement guidelines                            for mass production    Impact evaluation
J               to local level
operations
Coordination
National      Technical guidance to    Technical guide-    Technical backstop-    Review and assessment
Diktentis     BPKBs, SKBs                lines                ping                     Monitor training
*               Supervise resource        Coordinate with       Review & analysis       Support operation of
:l              centers                    Dikmas                                        centers
Coordinate with Dikmas                                                  Coordinate with Dikmas



- 70 -                                                 ANNEX  13
?age 2
Administrative/              Training        Learning resources             Monitoring
Operational                    m_             L  aterials                & evaluation
National      Technical support to       Develop models of   Organize national         Develop of evaluation
Centers       NFE programs               staff training       and regional             designs
(BPKB)        Coordination with                               learning materials
Dikmas                                         development
Provincial    Report to PMU              Implement guide-    Manage development        Feedback, monitoring,
(PlU)         Develop programs          lines                 and production of        follow-up and process
Oversee district oper-   Training of pro-    learning materials         evaluation of district
ation                    vincial field                                  programs
Coordinate with           staff and admin-                              Prepare report to PMU
provincial authority      istrative support
personnel
Regional      Coordinate with PlU,       Conduct training    Develop and produce    Monitor and evaluate
Centers       program development,      program for pro-    learniag materials         NYE operation
(BPKBe)       technical backstopping  vincial, district                               Feedback report to PIU
personnel
Provincial    Consult and coordinate   Participate in         Provide learning         Monitor NPE program
Govt          NFE program                training programs   materials                 Coordinate with PIU
(BAPPEDA)     Prepare SK, program       Conduct special       Information              feedback
other         budget, allocate funds   sectoral training   dissemination
agen:ies                                 programs
District      Report to provincial    Develop training                                 Data compilation for
pIU                       program with SR8s   Distribute learning    process evaluation and
Coordinate with agen-    Field-based           materials                planning review of
cies at district level  training at                                     subdistrict programs
Distriit programnmng      district level                                Monitoring, feedback,
and budgeting             Monitoring                                    report to PIU
Contract resource per-
sons



- 71 -                                              ANNEX  13
Page 3
Administrative/              Training        Learning resources             Monitoring
Operational                                   & materials                i evaluation
District      Technical backstopping   Manage training        Provide local            Monitor and evaluate
Center&       to district programs       program for          supplementary            SRB operation
(SKBs)                                  tutors and            materials for
monitors learning   learning groups
groups
District      Assist & coordinate        Participate in       Provide supplemen-       Monitor program
Pappeda,      NFE program                training programs   tary learning             Review NFE activities
NGOs,         Prepare budget             Conduct special      materials                Feedback to district
others        Allocate funds, SK         training program    Information exchange   operations
Identify resource per-
sons
Co_tuct field exten-
sion
Subdistrict   Manage community NFE       Orientation for      Delivery of learning   Data collection for
Officer       programs                   learning group       materials                process evaluation
(Penilik      Coordinate activities    leaders (with SDB   Identify learning           Monitoring of commau-
Dlkmas)       with other agencies;       support)             material needs of        nity NFE program
field-level extension    Coordinate            beneficiaries            Report to district
support                   training program
for tutors,
learning groups
Subdistrict   Work with penilik          Partic'pate in       Assist in distri-        Assist in review & mo-
NFE Advis-    Identify local             training             bution of learning       nitoring of subdis-
ory Group     learning needs             Assist in identi-   materials                 trict & village pro-
(Satgas       Organizate learning       fying training                                 gram
Kecamatan)    groups                     needs                                         Feedback to peniliks
Motivate and support
volunteer tutors and
monitors
Coordination with
Satgas Desa
Community     Identify learners and    Participate in         Assistance in dis-       Review of community
NFE           group leaders              training, etc.       tribution and stor-    program
Advisory      Motivate learners,         Identify training   age of learning ma-    Monitor progress
Group         tutors and monitors        needs                terials                  Feedback to penilik
(Satgas       Contact with the vil-
Desa)         lage administration
Tutors        Conduct learning pro-    Participate in         Provide learning ma-   Monitor & evaluate
gram                      training             terial, etc.             learning groups
Coordinate training       Identify learning                             Report to penilik
needs with Satgas         program training
Report to penilik         needs
Learning      Liaison with Satgas        Participate in       Provide supplies to    Keep records
Group         Desa and field workers   training               learning group           Assist field workers
Leaders        (penilik)                 Identify training   members                   in data collection
Liaison with other        needs of members    Provide feedback on
learning groups                                learning materials
Training                                       to penilik
Scheduling of learning
group meetings



INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
NFE Staffing
A. Staffing Reguirements
Existing   Existing        Total
Unit           staff      vacancies   requirements                              Priorities
(1)         (2)       (4 - 1 + 3)
National          198          12           210                New professional staff required to operate PHUI
and technical working groups
Provincial       888          110           998                Staff needed for the PIUs and working groups,
especially for provinces not covered under
NFE II
District        1,280         414         1,694                Districts with high number of IP subdistricts
Subdistrict    2,972          630        3,602                 IP subdistricts without peniliks
BPKB              100         350           450                For 7 new BPKBs
SKB            3,138        1,804        4,942                 Priority for (i) staff for new SKBs;
(ii) understaffed SKBs in districts with high
number of IP subdistricts
Total       8.576        3.320       11.896
-1'



INDONESIA
THIRD NONRORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
B. Staffing Action Plan
Unit                 1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1977   Total           Remarks
National               12        -       -        -       -        -      12    Additional new staff may be
needed during project
implementation
Provincial             20       20      20       20      20       10     110
District               70       70      70       70      70       64     414
Subdistrict           100      100     100      100     100      130     630    Recruitment for IP subdistricts
may need to be accelerated
BPKBs                  60       60      60       60      60       50     350    To be staffed more rapidly if
possible
SRIs                  304      300     300      300     300      300   1,804
Total Staff        566     550      550     550      550     554   3,320
cm z
JsX



- 74 -                             ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCLTION PROJECT
Technical Assistance
A. Speci.ist Services
GOI FY
Speciality               1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   Total
Consultants
(staff-mor.hs)
Implementation SupDport
Literacy training           12         9          6         3          3       33
Secondary nonformal
education                 12        12          6         6          6       42
Apprenticeships              6         6          -         -          -       12
Income-generating
learning materials dev.  24         12         12         6          6       60
Income-generating
training development      24        12         12         6          6       60
Capacitv-Building
Master training plan        24        12          6         6          3       51
Project management          12         9          6         3          6       36
NFE policies                12         9          6         3          6       36
Monitoring and evaluation  12          6          4         4          4       30
Management information
system                     6         2          2         -          -       10
Total            144         89        60         37        40       370
Resource Persons
(staff-days)
Implementation Support
Apprenticeships          2,400     6,000      8,000     5,600      2,000   24,000
Income-generating
training                   -    42,000    40,000    28,000    10,000  120,000
Income-generating
ongoing support            -    84,000   164,000   136,000    76,000  460,000
Total          2,400   132.000   212.000   169.600    88.000  604.000



- 75 -                              ANNEX 15
Page 2
B. Studies
Unit cost                     GOI FY
Rp     1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97    Total
Subject              million   --------------------- activities -------------------
Literacy levels
research                5         1        1         1        -         -         3
Literacy needs
assessment              2         1        -         -        -         -         1
Illiteracy assessment   10          -         1        -        -         -         !
Secondary nonformal
education assessment   5          1        -         -        -         -         1
Secondary nonformal
education pilot
testing                 9        15        -         -       -          -        15
Private courses
tracer study           30         1        1         1        -         -         3
Private courses
new associations       50         -        -         -        1         -         1
Preparation for
future projects       100         -        -         -        1         1         2
Supervision, moni-
toring and evalua-
tion study             30         1        -         -        -         -         1
Field worker impact      50         -        -         -        1         -         1
Project completion
report                 50         -        -         -       -          1         1
IP baseline survey
data collection L/   0.3        450      250         -        -         -       700
IP baseline survey
data analysis La      0.2       750      250         -        -         -    1,000
Family education         20         -         1        1        1         1         4
Play group               20         -         1        1        1         1         4
Other education units   20          -         1        1        1         1         4
Other research topics   20          -        2         2        2         2         8
Project impact studies  20          -        -         1        3         4         8
Total                     1.220       508         8      11         11    1.758
La   Surveys in each of the 1,000 IP subdistricts.  Data collection for the first
300 subdistricts was carried out in FY1991/92.



- 76 -                              ANNEX 15
Page 3
C. Fellowships
Unit cost
Rp                         GOI FY
Subject            million  1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   Total
Long Term
(staff-years)
Domestic
Preservice master
degree               18      5          5          5         5          5        25
Inservice master
degree               18      5          5          5         -          -        15
Total                  10         10         10         5          5       40
Overseas
Inservice master
degree               40       1         2          3         2          1         9
Total                   1          2          3         2          1         9
Short Term
(staff-months)
Domestic
PMU staff            0.75       -        18          -         18         -        36
Training develop-
ment staff         0.75       -        90          -        90          -       180
Computer staff       0.75       -        96          -        96          -       192
Total                   0        204         0        204          0      408
Intensive
Intensive training    35    140           -          -         -          -       140
Total                 140          0         0          0          0      140



INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Prolect Monitorinft Indicators
Quantitative Indicators
Project component and           Coverage/                                                 Beneficiary                 Qualitative
objective(s)              number reached                Inputs provided              characteristics               indicators
Part A: Basic Protram
To provide basic lit-        - 90,000 learning             - Learning materials         - Male/feanale (M/F)          - 2 dropout
eracy training                 groups/900,000              - Supplementary reading      - Rural/urban (R/U)           - 2 passed primary
(complete Paket A10)           learners                      materials                  - Age                           school equivalency
- A1-5                       - Learning funds              - Educational level            examination (PERS)
- A6-10                      - Tutors trained              - Economic status            - I tutor dropout
- All-lOO                    - Tutor incentives                                         - No. tutor associa-
tions established
Part B:  Intensive Protram
To Implement new             - subdistricts covered                                     2 Java/Off-Java               2 of poorest subdis-
strategy in poor areas                                                                  2 by province                 tricts/villages
Intensive Paket A.         - 60,000 learning             - Learning materials         - M/F                         - 2 dropout
To develop higher            groups/600,000              - Learning funds             - R/U                         - 2 passed PERS
level of functional          learners                    - guidelines/manuals         - Age                         - 2 reached higher lit-
literacy; increase         - Al1-20                      - Supplementary reading      - Educational level            eracy level (A60-
access to reading          - A21-60                        materials                  - Economic status               A100)
materials                  - A61-100                     - audiovisual aids                                         - 2 of tutor dropout
- go. of Community           - Tutors trained                                           - No. tutor associa-
Reading Corners (CRC)      - Tutor incentives                                           tions established
established                - VRC kits
- Specialists' advice
- Field workers
- Tracer, Impact stu-
dies
OQ z
fD m
F x
I-



Oawntitative Indicators
Project component and           Coverage/                                                Beneficiary                Qualitative
objective(s)              number reached               Inputs provided              characteristics              indicators
Paket B.  To develop       - Pilot groups tested        - Assessment                 - MIP                        - 2 dropout
test, carry out            - 850 groups/17,000          - Guidelines/manuals         - R/U                        - 2 learners continue
limited implementa-          learners                   - Workshops                  - Age                          higher level
tion of nonformal                                       - Textbook supplements       - SKB/non-SKB managed          education/training
equivalent to lower                                     - Monitors trained           - Educational level          - 2 passed the secon-
seeondar- education                                    - Tutors trained             - Economic status              dary school equiva-
- Tutor incentives;                                         lency examination
- Learning funds                                          - 2 tutor dropout
- Tracer, impact                                          - No. tutor associa-
studies                                                   tions established
Dkluaemas (private         - 27,000 trainees            - Trainers trained           - M/F                        - 2 dropout
vocational courses)-       - No. Paket B learners       - Guidelines/manuals         - R/U                        - S pass national exam-
Provide scholarships       - No. of institutions        - Course curricula           - Age                          inations
to low-income traln-         participated               - Teaching materials         - Skill/course               - 2 of trainees
ers, assist involved       - examinations given         - National examinations      - Educational level            obtained job/self-
inestitutions                                           - Scholarships               - Economic status              employed                      _J
- Learners travel                                         - 2 increase in parti-
- Tracer studies                                            cipants' income
- Field workers
naga   (apprentice-        - 60,000 appreptices         - Guidelines/manuals         - M/F                        - 2 of dropout
ship). To expand,          - No. Paket B learners       - Learning plan              - R/U                        - 2 apprentices ob-
improve Implementa-        - No. of skill/enter-          developed                  - Age                          tained job/self-
tion, sponsor low-           prise centers parti-       - Scholarships               - Skill sector                 employed
income apprentices           cipated                    - Field workers              - Educational level          - 2 increase in parti-
- Resource persons          - Economic status              cipants' income
- Tracer, impact stu-
dies
Income Generatint          - 60,000 groups/300,000      - Guidelines/manuals         - M/F                        - 2 of active, inactive
Proaram 11 jar               learners                   - Learning funds             - R/U                          KU groups
Usaha).     provide        - Credit support             - Business management        - Age                        - 2 KU groups obtained
implemen Ation sup-          no./amount loans made        materials                  - Sector (Agr./Trade           credit
port (TA) to KU            - Group trainirg days        - Supplementary mate-          etc.)                      - 2 increase in KU
groups, individuals;                                      rials                      - Educational level            groups' income
arrange with fia n-                                     - Trainers trained           - Economic status
cial Institutions to                                    - Specialists
increase access to                                      - Resource persons
credit                                                    provided
- Field workers
- Tracer, impact
studies
- Staff/NGOs trained
- Leaving plan
developed
- Special Kupeaes loans
made



Quantitative Indicators
Project component and           Coverage/                                                Beneficiary                Qualitative
objective(s)              number reached               Inputs provided              characteristics              indicators
Part C: Letional Sup-
port Services
1. Staff Trainin. To
improve delivery and
effectiveness of
tralning
a. Preservice train-      - Training days              - Reference books            - MIF                        - 2 of students
ing ilKIP)             - No. of persons             - Handbooks                  - Educational level            recruited by NFE
trained                    - Lab site programs                                         programs
- S/y fellowships            - Curriculum vorkshops
- Jcurnals
- Tracer/impact studies
- Fellowships                                                                            uD
b. Inservice staff        - Training days              - Training materials         - N/F                        - 2 of trained staff
training               - No. of persons             - Trainers trained           - Educational level            promoted
trained                    - Fellowships                - Staff type/level
- S/m and s/y                - intensive training
fellowships                - Specialists
- Master training plan
- Tracerlimpact studies
c. Diklusemas             - Training days              - Training materials         - M/F                        - No. Diklusemas staff
training               - No. of trainers            - Trainers trained           - Educational level            trained by trainers
trained (instructor/                                    - Skill/course               - S pass rates national
managerlexam. wrlter)                                                                  examinations
2. Facilities to             - HQ renovated/equipped      - Civil works                - New SKBs per province      - Utilization of
improve program           - SKBs constructed/          - Equipment and furni-       - Renovated SKBs per           facilities
support                     equipped                     ture                         province                   - Timely acquisition of
- SRBs renovated/            - MENPAN decrees                                            land
equipped                                                                             - Timely allocation of
- BPlDs equippped                                                                        budget and staff
b .)



Quantitative Indicators
Project component and           Coverage/                                               Benefiliary                Qualitative
obje.tive(s)             number reached               Inputs provided              characteristics              indicators
3. Pro1ect Management.
a. To improve pro-       - Vehicles                   - o0n for vehicles and       - Vehicles per province      - Changes in staff
ject management,      - Office equipment             office equipment           - Equipment per               attitudes
implementation          packages                   - Honoraria                    province                  - 2 vacancies
systems, and          - No. of staff hired         - Ministerial Decree         - New staff per             - Quality of super-
outreach              - No. of field workers       - Guidelines to Ranwils        province                    vision
contracted                - Specialists                - Field workers per          - 2 villages visited
- Library development         province                     and frequency
- Staff m/ f                - 2 staff promotions
- staff type/level          - 2 audit reports on
time
- 2 women Dikmas staff,
field supervisors
b. To improve imple-     - No. of village com-        - Field workers              - NGOs participating         - 2 of village commit-         I
mentation at            mitteesitask forces        - Training of village                                       tees/task forces or-         g
comunity level        - NGOa, private groups         leaders                                                  ganized
mobilized                  - Contracts for                                          - 2 of field workers           I
resource persons                                         appointed as staff
- Action research/                                       - Types of NGOs parti-
impact studies                                           cipated
c. To improve coor-       - No. of MOAs, decrees      - CoordinatiLon meetings     - Sectoral agencies          - 2 increase in local
dination with            (SKs)                       with local govern-           collaborating               contribution to NFE
local govern-         - Amount and type of           ment, sectoral staff                                     programs
ments, sectoral         assistance provided        - Training                                                - 2 participation in
agencies, others        by other agencies                                                                     the annual review
meetings
6. Monitorins and Eval-      - Staff-days supervi-       - Staff training                                          - Frequency of field
uation.  To Improve        sion                       - IP Baseline survey                                       visits
monitoring and eval-      - Reports/data              - N&E system developed                                    - Frequency of report-
uation of project        - Studies                    - MIS guidelines                                            ing and feedback
Implementation and       - Action research            - Wurkshops/study                                         - 2 provinces/districts
outcoems                                              - Travel allowances,                                        reporting regularly
per diem                                               - Input indicators
- Specialists                                              established
- Tracer studies                                         - Progress reports
- Action research                                          prepared on schedule      X
- Impact studies                                         - Use of HIS data in        aQ
- Annual reviews                                           annual planning             X
- Quality of studiesl         I-.
analysis                   ac



ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
THIRD NONPORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Summacv Accounts by Year and Component
A. Summav Accounts by Year
Total IncluJing Contingencies (Rupiah)               Totals Includint Continsencies (USS)
1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97    Total  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97  Total
L. Invenet Costs
A, CivLI Works'
T1.Nw Buiidmg                 1,781.7   1.874.9   1,973.2   2,077.0   0.0   7.706.8    0.9      0.9       1.0      1.1     0.0    3.9
2. Rcnov. & Rehabilitation     846 5     118.8      0.0      0.0      0.0     965.3    0.4      0.1       0.0      0.0     0.0    0.5
Subtotal                    2,628.2   1.993.7  1,973.2  2,077.0            ,5721      1.3      1.0      1                 0.0    4.4
B.    INpFitureNebicles
1Ie. C .puIes (Ha   Softwr.)   255.6       0.0     20.4      0.0      0.0     276.0    0.2      0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0    0.2
2. Office Eqipmet             3.073.0   2,604.5    641.6    366.8     0.0   6,685.9    1.6      1.3       0.3     0.2      0.0    3.4
3. Funtitwe                    161.8    241 2     178 7     187.9     0.0     769.6    0.1      0.1       0.1     0.1      0.0    0.4
4. Vaus                        827.7    624.2       0.0      0.0      0.0   1,451.9    0.4      0.4       0.0      0.0     0.0    0.8
5. Motorcycles                 671.1   1,213.8    557.7      0.0      0.0   2.422.6    0.3      0.6       0.3      0.0     0.0    1.2
Subtotal                    4.989.2   4.683.7  1.378 4    554.7     .0   1106.0       _       2-4       0.7      03      0.      60
C. Technical Assistance
l. Stecisli us                 622.1    406.5    289.7    188.9   216.0   1.723.2    0.3        0.2       0.2     0.1      0.1    0.9
2. Dometic Fellowships         194.4    380.2    217.3    310.2   121.5   1,223.6    0.1        0.2       0.1     0.2      0.1    0.7
3. Overea  ellowhtips           42.8      88.6    137.8     95.2    49.3      413.7    0.0      0.0       0.1     0.0      0.0    0.1
4. Intensive Training         1,315.5     43.4     45.9     48.5    51.3   1.504.6    0.8       0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0    0.8
S. Research/Studies            698.5    385.6    268.7    542.9   418.1    2,313.8    0.4       0.2       0.1     0.3      0.2    1.2
6. Resource Peron               42.8   2.486.9  4,223.0  3,5722   1,960.0   12,284.9    0.0     1.3       2.2      1.8     1.0    6.3
Subtotal                    2,916.1   3,791.2   5,182.4  4.757.9  2.816.2   19.4638    6       1.9      27       24       4    10.0
D. Tutor Incentive
1. Ci pii Tautr AssOciation    375.0    712.5    759.0    396.5   131.6   2,374.6    0.2        0.3       0.4     0.2      0.1    1.2
2. Travel Alowances             75.0    172.5    348.1    428.7   429.3   1,453.6    0.0        0.1       0.2     0.2      0.2    0.7
3. Teaching/learning Kit       293.5    696.0    809.0    473.1   220.6   2.4922    0.2        0.4       0.4     0.2      0.1    1.3
Subtotal                     743.5   1,581.0   1.916 1   1.298 3    781.5   6.320.4    0.4              1.0      0.6      _       .2
E. no inin
1.Tiveling Coat               1,405.8   1.660.5   1,817.8   1,14Z9    842.8   6.869.8    0.7    0.9       0.9     0.6      0.4    3.5
2. Accommodation& Con,umpt.   3,13&3   5,162.6  5,417.0  2,905.1  1,241.5   17.864.5    1.6     2.6       2.8      1.5     0.6    9.1
3. Per Diem                   2,960.5   4,187.1   4,335.8   2,318.1  1,239.9  15,041.4    1.6   2.1       2.2      1.2     0.6    7.7
4. Honotwia                    656.1   1,055.7   1,217.2    647.7   233.6   3.810.3    0.3      0.6       0.6     0.4      0.1    2.0
5. Consumable Mtrial           219.0    644.7    693.7    457.8   178.8   2,194.0    0.1        0.3       0.4     0.2      0.1    1.1
6. Tining Materials            158.1    196.4    177.9      81.2    58.4      672.0    0.1      0.1       0.1     0.0      0.0    0.3
Subtotal                    8,537.8  12,907.0  13.659.4   2.8=  3,795.0  46.452.0    4.4      6         79               La   2L
F.  itnine/Tecchin Matrl.
1.M"ateritals Deloett n        785.7    746.5    795.8    197.0   202.9   2,727.9    0.4        0.4       0.4     0.1      0.1    1.4
2. EvahlaionlRevition           17.8       7.8     14.6      4.1      S.9      50.2    0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0
3. Tryout                       10.9       6.4      2.5      1.2      1.2      22.2    0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0
4. Prod./Purc.& Distribution  4,699.4   5,699.9   6,401.0  6,186.1  3,825.4  26,811.8    2.4    2.9       3.3      3.2     2.0   13.8
Subtotal                    5.5138   6.460    7,213.9  6.3884  4.34   29.612.1    L.         3         3        3.      LI   I
O. Lcti  u1141.
i.PketA(BAuic)               2.700.0   2,250.0   1,800.0  1,350.0   900.0   9,000.0    1.4      1.1      0.9      0.7      0.5    4.6
2 Pale A (Inteive)             600.0   2,340.0  3.380.0  2,760.0  1,320.0   10,400.0    0.3     1.2       1.7      1.4     0.7    5.3
3. PcklcB                        0.0       0.0    681.0    681.0  1,131.0   2,493.0    0.0      0.0       0.4     0.3      0.6    1.3
4. Couws (Dikluhemas)          540.0   1,350.0   1,800.0   1,260.0   450.0   5.400.t3    0.3    0.7       1.0     0.6      0.2    2.8
5 Apprenticepsip (Msgsng)      900.0   2,250.0  3,000.0  2,100.0   750.0   9.000.0    0.4       1.2       1.5     1.1      0.4    4.6
6. LocoeneGen. (Kejar Uu)        0.0   1,050.0   1,000.0    700.0   250.0   3.000.0    0.0      0.5       0.5     0.4      0.1    1.5
Subtotl                     4 .70_  9,240.0  11.661.0  8.851.0  4 801.0  39.293.0    24        L        6.0    ,4        L      2au
oto Invesctmet Cost          306.   40,657.3  42.984.6  31,480.1  16f9,  161,419.4    AU       12,!      ZU.    ILL        L     ati
n.A. HreoMIts"'o"               1,764.4   2.845.3   3,384.6  3,247.8  2.350.7   13,592.8    0.9    1.5      1.7      1.7      1.2    7.0
B. Tavel Allowac                1,562.7   2,357.4  2,774.0  2.714.3  2,150.5   11,558.9    0.8    1.2       1.4     1.4      1.1    5.9
C. Pet Diem Allowances           189.1    200.5    212.5    225.2   238.8   1.0661       0.1      0.1       0.1     0.1      0.1    0.5
D. Select"otas RecrtniUent       218.4    274.5    271.2    176.6    92.2   1,032.9    0.1        0.1      0.1      0.1      0.0    0.5
E. O&M EqNpment/Vehickes         148.5    481.0    758.2   1,024.0  1,291.7   3,703.4    0.1      0.2      0.4      0.5      0.7    1.9
F. CottabloMatuiaks              301.5    341.5    369.6    379.7   372.5   1,764.8    0.2        0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2    0.9
Total Rewurrent Coat         4,184.6   6,500.2  7.70.1   7.767   6,4964   32,718.9    2.        LI        3S      4,0      3,3   16.7
otekL oiitS Cos" q.2S3.0  47,157.4  5.754.8  39.247.7 22.725.4  194.13&4    17.7               LU        Zu 26,    2t       l    2I 9
Valu Scaed by 1.000,000.00



ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 2
B. Summatry Accounts by Proiect Comoonent
(Rupiah)
Baic    Int    Scond.  Priv.             Income
Litency   Utercy  ay NFE Coura  Apprent. Gen.    Staff              Projec'  Superv.             Physical      Pric.
(Paket   (Pskca   (Psket  (Dikluts  iceship  (Kejar  Develop- Facili-  Mange- Monit &         C nitmncia    ontinceacs
A)       A)       E)     max)  (Mgang) Usah,)   ment   ties        ment    EvdI.   Totda      XAiount  %   Amount
1, Ivestment Costs
A. Ck-v-i Works-
1. New Buildu4              0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0  6,314.0      0.0     0.0   6.314.0  10.0  631.4  12.1   761.3
2. Renov. & Rehabilitation  0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   850.0       0.0     0.0    850.0  10.0   85.0   3.6    30.3
Subtotal                  0.0      00 Q     0        0      0.0             0.0  7.164.0      0.0     2O 76                 0  716.4  J.    791.6
B. Eou./FurnitumNephicles
I [Criiputen (Hird a Softwsrc) 0.0   0.0     0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      20.0   225.6    245.6  10.0   24.6   2.4       5.8
2. Office Equipmtent        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0  3,323.0   2.501.S    10.0   5,834.5  10.0  583.4   4.6   268.0
3. Furniture                0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   574.0      60.0    0.0    634.0  10.0   63.4  11.4    72.2
4. Van                      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0   1,280.0    0.0   1,280.0  10.0  128.0   3.4    43.9
S. Motorcycles              0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0  2,100.0     0.0   2.100.0  10.0  210.0   5.4   112.6
Subtotl                   0.0      0.       0.      0.0     00      0.         3.897.0  5,961.5   2356  10.094.1  IOQ 1.009.4    _ 0
C. Technical Ausistance
1. Specisaists              0.0    132.0   168.0    0.0    48.0   480.0   204.0       0.0    2S8.0   160.0   1,480.0   5.0   74.0  11.4   169.2
2. Domestic Fellowships     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0  1,026.0     0.0      0.0     0.0   1,026.0   5.0   51.3  14.3   146.3
3. Oveses Fceowships        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   360.0      0.0      0.0     0.0    360.0   5.0   18.0   9.9    35.7
4. Intensive Traiving       0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0  1,370.0     0.0      0.0     0.0   1,370.0   5.0   68.5   4.8    66.0
5. Research/Studies         0.0    27.0   144.8   140.0       0.0     0.0   330.2      0.0    200.0  1,100.0   1,942.0   5.0   97.1  14.1   274.7
6. ResourcePenona           0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0   396.0  9,570.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   9.966.0   5.0  498.3  18.3  1,820.6
Subtotal                  0.0    1i9.0   312.    140.0   444.0 IO.OS0.0  3029002     _      488.0  1.260.0  16,144.0   5.0   807.2  15.6  2.5125
D. Tutor Incentive
11. Capital Tutor Aswocition    750.0  1,500.0   124.6    0.0  0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   2,374.6   0.0    0.0   0.0      0.0
2. Travel Allowances      150.0    850.0   453.6    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   1,453.6   0.0    0.0   0.0      0.0
3. TeachingfitinS Kit    450.0  1,500.0   226.8    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   2.176.8   0.0    0.0  14.5   315.4
Subtotal               1.350.0  3850.0    805.0     0.0     0.      0 0     0.0      00           60005.0   0.0    0.0   5_3  315.4
E. ThinsmA
1 Trveling Coat           630.0   822.6   101.1    0.0        0.0   862.6  3,638.9     0.0      0.0    15.0   6,070.3   0.0    0.0  13.2   799.5
2. Accommodsikoo& Consumpl.650.0  5,298.5   229.4    0.0      0.0  3.490.0  5.19.6    0.0      0.0     4.5  15,865.0   0.0    0.0  12.6  1,999.5
3. Per Diem              1,249.5  3.330,0   250.8    0.0      0.0  2.173.5  6,287.5    0.0      0.0     7.6  13,298.9   0.0    0.0  13.1  1.7425
4. Honoraria              230.0  1.837.6    89.1    0.0       0.0   216.3   982.3      0.0      0.0     7.9   3,363.3   0.0    0.0  13.3   447.0
;. Consumable Materisl    180.0    327.6    16.3    0.0       0.0  1,014.7   385.8     0.0      0.0     0.4   1.924.7   0.0    0.0  14.0   269.3
6. Traing Materiab         90.0    62.4    11.3    0.0        0.0   154.4   282.9      0.0      0.0     0.3    601.3   0.0    0.0  11.8    70.8
Subtotal              4.Q29.5  11.67S.7   698.1      .      9.0  7.911  16 770 1     0.              35.6  41.123.5   0.0    1.       Q  5,328.6
F. j rin trrelchingMatrl.
t Materials Development     0.0    68.5    71.6  214.5        1.5    13.5  2.128.2    0.0       0.0     0.0   2,497.8   0.0    0.0   9.2   230.1
2. Evaluation/Revision      0.0      4.8      2.5    10.2    2.0    11.7    13.5       0.0      0.0     1.0      4S.8   0.0    0.0   9.6      4.4
3. Tryout                   0.0      8.3      0.0    6.0      0 0     6.5     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      20.8   0.0    0.0   6.8       1.4
4. Prod/Purc. & Distnbution  3,896.9  14,619.2   706.5  456.2   136.7  1,275.3   643.7  0.0     0.0    38.8  21,773.4  10.0 2,177.3  13.1  2,861.2
Subtotal               3.896.9 14,700.7   780.6  687.0   140.2  1,307.1  2,785.4     0.0      2.    39.8  24,337.8   8.9 2.177.3  12.7 L3Q7.1
a .   mrin^ff Pt
i. Paket A (Buic)       9,000.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0   9.000.0   0.0    0.0   0.0      0.0
2. PakesA (Intensive)       0.0  10,400.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0  10,400.0   0.0    0.0   0.0      0.0
3 PakedB                    0.0      0.0  2.493.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   2,493.0   0.0    0.0   0.0      0.0
4 Coune (Diklusan)          0.0      0.0      0.0  5,400.0    0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   5,400.0   0.0    0.0   0.0      0.0
5. Apprenticesip (Magang)   0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0  9,000.0    0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   9,000.0   0.0    0.0   0.0      0.0
6. Income Gen. (Kejar Usaba)    0.0  0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0  3,003.0    0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   3,000.0   0.0    0.0   0.0      0.0
Subtotl                9.000.0 10.400.0  2.493.0 5.400.0  _00.0  3.000.      _       9 00     0 0          39.293.0    _      0.0    _      IQ
Total lnvestnentCost    18.27&4 40,788.5  5.089.S  6,227.0  _~  22.268.5 22.845.7 11.061.0  6.449.5  1,571.0 144.161.4   3.3 47110.3   S.7 12.547.7
11. Pecttrtent Co t
A HoqFo"'                     0.0  2,901.0    28.8    0.0  2,901.0  2. 01.0     4.8     0.0  2,367.7   594.6  11,698.9   0.0    0.0  16.2  1,894.0
B. Trvel Allowances           0.0  1,934.0     0.0    0.0  1,934.0  1,934.0     0.0     0.0      81.0 4.122.1  10,005.1   0.0    0.0  15.5  1,553.8
C. Per Diem Allwances         0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    371.2   546.8    918.0   0.0    0.0  16.1   148.0
D Selectiot    d Recruimant    480.0    100.0    18.9   45.0    84.0   305.0    0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0   1,0329   0.0    0.0   0.0       0.0
E O&M EquipmenltVehicle       0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   571.9  2,408.1   113.1   3,093.1   0.0    0.0  19.7   610.2
F. Camumsble Materials        0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0   1,426.2   105.6   1,531.9   0.0    0.0  15.2   233.0
Totl Recurrent Ctos     480.0  4.935.0    47.7    45.0 4.919.0  5.1400      4.8   571.9  6,654.3  5.482.2  28.279.9   00      0.   IS.  4.439.0
Total Bseline Cos         18,7564  45,723.5  5,137.2 6,27Z0 14,503.2 27.408.5 22,850.5 11,632.9  .3.103.8 7,053.2 172,441.3   2.7 4,710.3   9.9 16,986.7
Physicl Contin.geacies    389.7  1,469.9    86.3    52.6    35.9   630.0   228.9  1,106.1    620.5    90.4   4,710.3
Pice Condi"ancies         984.7  4,512.9   395.2  105.5   851.0 3,695.5  2,748.2  1,121.8  1.518.5  1.053.5  P6,986.7   2.9  497.4
ToilPtic-Co           20.13Q8  51.706.2  5.61&7 6A430.2  390.1 31    25.827.6 13.860.8  15,242.9 8,197.2 194,13S.3   2.  5.207.7   8   16986.7
Taxes                     471.6  1,810.3    92.0   56.0    16.7   152.9    77.1  1,317.3    848.4   43.3   4,835.5   8.8  428.1
Foreign Excbane         2,099.8  7922.0   453.8   331.2   325.7  2,561.5  2,893.7  5,580.5  6.249.6   857.8  29,275.6   7.1 2,087.3
VYlue Scald by 1,000,000.00



INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORNAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Proiect Financinu Plan by Year
A. Financing Plan by Year and by Component
(US$ million)
1992/93           1993/94           1994195           1995196           1996197                  Total        _      Project
Category                                   N      GOI       VD      GOI       WB      GOI 0S            GOT      IIIB     GOI       1(8      X     G01      2     Total
basic Proar
Basic Llteracy (Pakat A)                 1.0      1.9      0.9      1.6      0.8       1.3      0.6      1.0     0.5      0.7       3.8   37       6.5   63        10.3
InteneivS Proirm
Iltenive  Literecy (Paket A)             2.0      0.7      5.1      1.7      6.2      2.2      4.3      1.6      1.9      0.8      19.5   74       7.0   26       26.5
Secondary WE (Peket 33                   0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.6      0.1      0.6      0.1      1.1      0.2       2.4   86       0.4   14         2.8                  I
Private Couraeo (Dikluee.as)             0.4      0.0      0.8      0.0      1.0      0.0      0.8      0.1      0.3      0.0       3.3   9I       0.1     3        3.4                  00
Apprenticesbipa (megang)                 0.8      0.1      1.7      0.2      2.1      0.4       1.4     0.4      0.5      0.3       6.5   82        1.4   18        7.9                  W
Incom Generating (Kajar Ocabe)           1.1      0.4      3.5      0.7      4.1      0.8      3.1      0.7      1.4      0.4      13.2   81       3.0   19       16.2
Suttotal Intensive Ptr                4.4      1.2     11.1      2.6     14.0      3.5     10.2      2.9      5.2      :3'      44.9   79       11.9   21      56.8
National Suiport Services
Staff Developamt                         2.9      0.9      2.0      0.8      2.2      0.8      1.4      0.6      1.2      0.4       9.7   73       3.5   27       13.2
Faculties                                1.5      1.1      0.9      0.7      0.7      0.6      0.6      0.7      0.0      0.1       3.7   54       3.2   46        6.9
Project managemt                         1.4      0.4      1.8      0.8      0.7      0.5      0.5      0.6      0.3      0.8       4.7   60       3.1   40        7.8
Superv. MonitoriSg & Evaluation          0.8      0.4      0.7      0.1      0.5      0.2      0.5      0.3      0.2      0.6       2.7   63        1.6   37       4.3
Subtotal Ilational Support Services    6.6     2.8      5.4      2.4      4.1      2.1      3.0      2.2      1.7      1.9      20.8   65      11.4   35       32.2
Total                                12.0      5.9     17.4      6.6     18.9      6.9      13.8     6.1      7.4      4.3      69.5   70    29.8   30         99.3
4p million                              23.452   11.540   33.998   12.906   36.929   13,493   26.968   11.930   14.469    8.415   135.S16    70  58.2S4    30  194.100
O !>
(D Xi
X



B. Financina Plan by Year and by Category
(US$ million)
Total
World Bank                          Government of Indonesia           Project
92193  93194 94/95  95/96 96/97  Total   92/93  93/94 94/95 95/96 96/97  Total    Cost
Investment Costs
Civil Works               0.7   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.0   2.2         0.7   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.0    2.2          4.4
Furniture                 0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.2         0.1   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0    0.2          0.4
Equipment                 1.2   1.0   0.2   0.1   0.0   2.5         0.5   0.4   0.1   0.1   0.0    1.1          3.6
Vehicle                   0.5   0.7   0.2   0.0   0.0   1.4         0.3   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0    C.6          2.0
Consultants/fellowships    1.5   1.9   2.6   2.5   1.5  10.0        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0         10.0               I
Tutor Incentives          0.2   0.6   0.7   0.4   0.3   2.2         0.1   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.1    1.0          3.2               Go
Local Training            3.0   4.6   4.8   2.6   1.4  16.4         1.4   2.0   2.1   1.2   0.6    7.3         23.7
Instructional Mat'l       2.0   2.3   2.5   2.3   1.4  10.5         1.0   1.0   1.1   1.0   0.6    4.7         15.2               1
Learning Funds l
scholarships            1.1   3.5   5.1   3.8   2.0  15.5         1.4   1.1   0.9   0.7   0.5    4.6         20.1
Recurrent Costs             1.8   2.2   2.2   1.6   0.8   8.6         0.4   1.0   1.8   2.4   2.5    8.1         16.7
Total                    12.0  17.4  18.9  13.8   7.4  69.5        5.9   6.6   6.9   6.1   4.3   29.8         99.3
aoz
xti
N)
PI- .



- 85 -
ANNEX 19
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year         Amount per  Cumulative          Disbursement profile /a
semester   Amount   X                  (X)
1992
2                      2.5        2.5    4                  0
1993
1                      2.4        5.0    7                  1
2                      3.0        8.0   11                  5
1994
1                      4.5       1Z 5   18                  6
2                      7.0       19.5   28                 17
1995
1                      9.0       28.5   41                 21
2                      9.4       37.9   55                 32
1996
1                      9.4       47.3   68                 42
2                      7.0       54.3   78                 54
1997
1                      7.0      61.3   88                  68
2                      5.0       66.3   95                 74
1998
1                      3.2      69.5  100                  81
/a  Latest standard disbursement profile for education projects in Indonesia
(June 11, 1991).



ANNEX 20
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
1. Baltibang Dikbud Evaluation Team, Research Center, Ministry of Education
and Culture, "Mid-Term Evaluation of the Nonformal Education/Dikmas
Project II.n Jakarta, November 1987.
2.   Brunsveld, Ton, "Policy Options and Evolving Linkages with Exparding
Small Credit and Saving Schemes." Consultant Report, RVB Maastricht, the
Netherlands, October 1990.
3. Directorate of Community Education (DIKMAS), Directorate-General of Out-
of-School Education, Youth and Sports, Ministry of Education and Culture,
"An Evaluation of the Plans and Results of the Execution of Training
During the Second Nonformal Education Project (1984/85-1989-90)." 1990.
4. -----, "Fourth Five-Years Development, Pelita IV 1984/85-1988/89."
Jakarta, 1990.
5.   ____, "Social Economic Characteristics of Package A Learners and Tutorst
A case study report composed for the completion of Nonformal Education
III project preparation." Jakarta, 1990.
6. -----, "Supplementary Learning Materials: A case Study", August 20, 1990.
7. Sari Bhakti School of Economy, "The Result of Socio Economic
Characteristics Study and Impact of Kajar Usaha Induk Diklusemas."
Research and Development Institutions, Jakarta December 1990.
8. Fass, Simon M., "Informal Enterprise in Rural Indonesia: An Overview."
Consultant Working Paper, February 1990.
9.   IKIP MALANG Research Team, "The Mid-Term Review on GOI-UNICEF Cooperation
in Nonformal Education." Research Center, Minlstry of Education and
Culture, December 1987.
10. Institute for Social and Economic Research, Education and Information
(LP3ES), in cooperation with DIKMAS, "Kejar Usaha/Magangt Socio Economic
Characteristics and Impact Study," January 1991.
11. Reksasiswaya, Priyadi, "Review on KEJAR USAHA Program for the Purpose of
Third Nonformal Education Project in Indonesia", April 1990.



- 87 -
ANNEX 20
Page 2
12. Sudjana, Djudju, "Description of Institution of Education for Nonformal
Education (LPTK PLS) in IKIP and University, Dikmas Support and its
Effectiveness for Dikmas Institution and Programmes." IKIP Bandung,
Department of Nonformal Education, Ministry of Education and Culture
1990.
13.  Weidemann, Jears C., "Income Gentrating for Women in the Dikmas Nonformal
Education Project: A final Report of Women in Development and
Microenterprise Specialist." Consultant Report, July/August, 1990.
Appraisal Mission Wcrking Papers
14.  McColl:>m, Kathleen, "Providing for Credit Needs of Kajar Usaha Members."
April 1991.
15. Moulton, Daniel, "Report on Paket A, Paket B and Staff Training
Components of Nonformal Education III Project, Institute for Training and
Development, Amherst, MA., April 1991.
16. Viloria, Julie, "Institutional, Management and Implementation Issues of
Nonformal Education." April 1991.
17. COSTAB Project Cost Tables, July 1991.



INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
The Education and Training System, 1991
Grade:  1         2        3        4        5        5                  7       8        9                      10       11       12
IiI               I                 I        I                 I        I        I                      I        I        I
Age:  7         8        9        10       11       12                13       14      15                      16       17       18
*_~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~N ._11 ..       .>-t                                     
Primary School                                   Junor Secondary                         Senior Secondary
Educatlon                               Education
Basic Education (1988)
Vocatonal Training Centers
Paket A                                                  Paket B                                 7    (BLK/KLK)
JJj             -j*M                                                                                Private Training Centers
A1-10    A11-20   A21-60  A60-100                                                                                 (HPPLSM/HILLS1)
Senior Secondary                            c
Schools (SMA)
LEGEND:
*     UnivesItylKIP & Polytechnic                                                                                     Scols Comeal
Entrance Examinations
*     School Leaving Examinations
l                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secondary Technical
Z   Formal Schools                                                                                                  Schools (STM)
W    Non-formal Education
Other Schol
Junior Secondary
Schools (SMP)
Primary Schools (SD)                           }{__
; } 9 = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Other Schools
arp\wst9913



- 89 -
Chart 2
INDONESIA
THIiJ3 NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
NFE Organizational Framework
Directorate
General
(Diklusepora)
National Core/    |                          Directorate                          Directorate
Sectoral Agencies   ............wu....   Community Education  4m"u"umu-'  Technical Services
National NGOs                                  (Dikmas)                          (Diktentis)
[-Provincial TK I                      [Provincial Officer                   F Regional Resouree
Other Agencies      =-uumsuuB              (Bidang)           ---.--            Center (BPKB)
| Provincial (TK II)                     District Officer                    I District Resource
Other Agencies       (======== I             (Kasi)          L4==n==wa   Center (SKB)
Subdistrict (TK III) I
Other Extension    |                    Field Supervisor
Workers, NGOs/       1-nuu-inu-inu-1        (Penilik)         I- - -                - -I
Private Sector
Community                         |       Tutors/.I
|  (LKMD)       J-------------t         Facilitators         -   --        
Neighborhood                           Learning Groups/
(RW/RT)          --------------'       Individuals          - - - - - - - - - - -
Lines of Authority
..,uuu.w=t Cooperation
Guidance/ii 2lementation support



-90                                                            Chart 3
INDONESIA
THIRD NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Prolect Manareient Structure
NATIONAL
Director,tt    General for                 A
Out-of-uchool  ducation, Youti                       i
and Sports       
Director  bonrral     e|
irotrme_______  ..............................___.........rortr 
un Unt(MU) 
| Bscic    |  |Vocation al |      |Consunit-7-1   | Pottntial ,1         ||Wobn'            |     Ad inictrction|
6duention     6ducation            T acein5I    I        Co_unity             Education       I       Fiasuco
Subdiroc-    Sudirsc-             Hthd          I           I               Famic ov rly Lifo  ISubdiotrt
to e             torcto           6ubdircot)            Subdirector:vto      Subdiroctorato 
Basic             Incoe.              Tesaching/             Man umor           SPEIM/IS    |          ehnical
Education         Gonerating           LeWrni                and  raining        Working Group        Secretariat
Progrm            ProSr               Matoricl              Working Group_
Developmnt         Deve opmeut         Working Group
Working Group      Working Group
P!IDkCIAL
roiacR     nal
Ia lement&a----------------------Resource
Center
Pr| Dernn                                                               Man    3[Hnpower and  I [SP6Hi
Development             Materialo
DISTRICT                                                                                           DistrictDirt
Dikes.iHead ----------------------Resource
(Ka                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~Center
(SZE)
SUBDISTRICT                                                              is
u Su:rv corI
|  tnilik) 
Field Workers
Exten oun
Team



IBRf 23239
Q.do A,h            .    AIlAND                                                                                                                                       INDONESIA
IBRUNEI                             PIHLfPPINES               THIRD NONFORMAL EnUCATION PPOJECT
4Mdo       MAlAYSIA                      ->J1;
MALAYSAAAYSIA
.'".SINGAPORE                                                                                A
b9on44444'4   t'                                                                                                                                     NORTH PACIlfC OCEAN
JAKARTA          <<
\~~~~~~~~~,                                             6444,44-4                             '-
AN                                                                        '                                                                          - -- ',                  ' . flemb49g
E ~~~~~~W                     d T   ! 'N- , odlt
. *44'           8eAg                                                                                       .sA 90444                   444644                 - onng9  
44,904 .StnANlot  zA-                                                                                                                                        AUS.R.LI
46 4A'\66                 e
74 6, 4.,.96  4;2  nlro:n     o9ao344  4i"i 5t.6.0  To,~,,                     -  AUST-    et
_~~~~~~~~~~9 '?,'4C~p46                                                   909404                                          4.C                                                           -6^   v  
44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGS 04-   USRAI



